It is such an exciting time to be a filmmaker.I do not believe the notion that the cinema is dying or dead because it’s amazing what technology can do to the cinematic storytelling.What’s great about film is it constantly reinvents itself. It started as a sheer novelty, those images moving on the screen.Then it went and every step of the way a new technology started being added — sound, color.What happens is the film grammar of storytelling evolves and changes as well. The technology goes directly with the evolution of the storytelling.The way films look —it started with old 35mm motion picture cameras, to color with the three-strip Technicolor, to cameras that weighed hundreds of pounds and had to be on dollies and cranes — that was the film grammar of the day.Then, we came to lighter cameras, to handheld cameras, steady cams, and on and on, all the way down to now.There’s a unique thing to a GoPro.There’s a unique thing to an iPhone — the way things are shot and the way it’s held. It just gives it a vibrancy you’ve never been able to have before.I believe new film grammar is going to come from these things.It evolves, it changes, and it’s in great part because of the technology.In my own field, in animation, a seminal film in the history of animation is People thought Walt was insane.“People aren’t going to sit still for a feature-length cartoon. Are you nuts?”But Walt was a visionary.Walt saw beyond what people were used to. They were used to the short cartoon.There’s a famous statement by Henry Ford that before the Model T if you asked people what they wanted, they would say, “A faster horse.”My own partner at Pixar for 25 years, Steve Jobs, never liked market research. Never did market research for anything.He said, “It’s not the audience’s job to tell us what they want in the future, it’s for us to tell them what they want in the future.”There’s a great statement I love. It’s that you only get one chance to make a first impression.First impressions are nearly impossible to get people off of if they have the wrong impression.I remember when I first saw computer animation. It wasn’t being used for much at the time. It was really geometric, sterile and cold, but I was blown away by it. Not by what I was seeing, but the potential I saw in it.It was true three dimensionality with a control that we had in hand-drawn animation. I saw the potential in computer animation and was like, “This is great. Everybody, can you see this?”But everybody was saying, “It looks like… It’s too sterile. No, I don’t like it.”I realized they were judging from exactly what they were seeing.People always push back saying, “It’s too cold, too sterile.”In the early days of computer graphics, it found its way into special effects.There were some people who didn’t understand the medium and thought it could do everything. There was this company that tried when they were making a movie called They had worked on Disney bought in on it and they worked for a very long time. I had a very dear friend working on it.It was way beyond what the computer could do at that time. They ended up cutting the entire sequence out of the film.That set back computer graphics in the effects world years, because everybody remembered that experience.About six years after that I was working at Lucas Film’s computer division and Dennis Muren, the brilliant Dennis Muren, Effects Director at ILM, came over to me and said, “We have this effect in a film called It was only six shots. We said, “Let’s try it.”It was some of the hardest things we ever did, but I’ll never forget when it came out — the effects industry, people from all over the world, had no idea how it was done.But it worked. It fit in there. It was nominated for an Oscar for best visual effects.We were so excited. But it was focusing on understanding the technology and pushing it to places that we couldn’t.When we became Pixar in 1986 and we started working towards our first feature film, I remembered all those projects. I was blessed by, number one, loving the medium of computer animation.I was just so interested in it and working with the people who basically had invented much of computer animation and we were pushing it all along.We really understood what the computer could and could not do.At that time when we rendered things, everything kind of looked plastic-y.So we started thinking about a subject matter that lent itself to the medium at that time.That’s one of the reasons why we leaned into toys becoming alive as a subject for our very first feature film, It was about the toys that lent themselves to the medium at that time. We chose toys that worked for that.In fact, it was better in CG than any other medium we could have done because we could make Buzz Lightyear feel like he was made of plastic and ball-and-socket joints and we had screws and scratches and decals and all this stuff you could not have done in any other medium.When it came out, our main focus was not the technology.What I was scared about was that people would be like, “Oh, it’s the first computer-animated feature film.”We made sure Disney, and all around the world, didn’t sell it as “The First CG film.”You sell it as a great motion picture, because that’s how we made it.It came out and people loved it. You watch it today and it’s just as entertaining as the day it came out.Like I said, you’ve only got one chance to make a first impression.Unlike It was a huge hit and everybody started looking at this as a viable filmmaking medium.Alfred Hitchcock is one of my favorite filmmakers and one of the reasons why I’ve studied and admired his films is that guy used new technology in incredible ways, but it was completely invisible in everything he made.You study his films and realize there’s no way he could have made that film, that shot, without that technology.But he didn’t want you to notice it.We focus on entertaining people in new ways, and if you focus on the technology too much you get caught up.It’s important, I believe, to make the technology invisible, but have it push to do something new.That’s when you make real breakthroughs.If you love a technology, if you really, really, really, really love a technology, then dig into it.Learn as much as you can. It’s fun. That’s what I did with CG.I was trained by these great Disney artists. I drew. It was all about story, character drawing, all that stuff, but when I got into computer graphics I was like, “Oh, my god, this is so much fun.”I wanted to learn as much as I could.The more you dig into the technology and the more you learn it, you are going to get ideas you would never have thought of without knowing your technology.The kind of shots you can get from an iPhone that you cannot get with any other camera. Use it.GoPros: use it. Be inspired by it.Try things. It’s digital. Get another memory card, for God’s sake.You will start creating ideas that lend themselves to these things and start looking new.Walt Disney heard it. I heard it with CG.“ Computer animation is so cold.”Really? No, I don’t think so.You think about it, it’s true for color, sound, feature length animation, CG.The first feature film shot on an iPhone? “That’s not going to work.”Yeah, it’s going to work. It’s going to be awesome.The first feature shot with a GoPro? It’s going to be awesome in the hands of the right people.The reason why they say this is because it’s not what people are used to.Before the Model T, you ask people what they want and they’re going to want a faster horse. It’s not what they’re used to.When I started working with CG, I could not wait for the tools to become commonplace.In the early days, when SIGGRAPH was the only place you could go and see computer graphics, it was always fun. Everybody would cheer for reflective clear balls floating over a checkerboard and be amazed by it.It was in a world where all of the art and the CG was being created by the guys who were writing the program.There was no such thing as off-the-shelf software. There were no tools available.They were writing their software and then creating it, and they were kind of the artistic guys within the computer world.They were just showing off the technology. I kept thinking to myself, “Yeah, but they’re really ugly. This is like boring. Let’s entertain people.”Can you imagine the guy who invented the pencil and all of the things that that invention has brought the world?That’s what I was feeling like with CG.I couldn’t wait to get it in the hands of everybody to see what they would do.Your goal as a filmmaker is to entertain. And to entertain people is about story.It’s about characters.It’s about connecting with that audience.It’s making that connection where you really deeply entertain an audience.But it’s not just an art form that we’re in. It’s a business. Entertaining stuff simply just does better.No matter what medium, any way you’ve distributed it — it all comes down to your knowledge skills.What makes a good story? How can I tell it properly?People get so excited about new technologies. I’ve had the question so many times from young people, “What software should I use?”What matters is when you’re young, you get excited about learning the fundamentals.It sounds so boring to young people when they can make a movie so quickly and release it to the world and get millions of Likes.“It’s so boring. I know how to do that.”Trust me, you don’t.The fundamentals of good storytelling, the fundamentals of film grammar, even though it was made with old Mitchell cameras and stuff like that, learn it.Learn the fundamentals of animation. Learn the fundamentals of physics and things like that, of basic color, basic design.This is the foundation of the building of your career.Then, as you get into new technology, you’ll know exactly what to do.No matter the length of your film — 30 seconds, five minutes, 22 minutes, feature length — it needs a story. It needs a beginning, a middle and an end.It needs to deeply connect with people.There are big differences between storytelling at 30 seconds or a feature film. Big differences.We did a series of short films in the beginning of Pixar and we did television commercials.We were thinking the next step for us was to do a Christmas special, but Disney threw us in the deep end, and we developed a feature film.It was amazing what we didn’t know.But I went back to my traditional training I had learned from my mentors — Frank Thomas, Ollie Johnston, and the great Disney animators that were still working at the studio when I started there — and the fundamentals of animation they kept talking about.Ollie Johnston would turn to me and I was expecting something about arcs and lines and silhouette value and all that stuff.He would turn and say, “John, what’s the character thinking?”It was amazing to me, just that simple statement. It was not about the drawing.Through pure movement they taught me to bring a character to life and give it an emotion, a personality, a uniqueness, and it was done through just pure motion.So when I started working with a computer, I just brought that technology with me. As we started developing the story, it was always about emotion. It was always about emotion from day one with It was about emotion, making you feel.I’ve admired Walt Disney so much my whole life and part of it is because he entertained people like no other person in history has ever done. The way he makes you feel when you watch his movies, the way he makes you feel when go through that tunnel under the train station at Disneyland and you’re transported.It’s about emotion and that connection.It felt like that core emotion. That became the hallmark of what we tried to do at Pixar — to do it with the new technology.I think the biggest thing for us is we studied films. We watched films religiously.With You start understanding what they did. Don’t copy things. It’s about understanding and learning.Very, very, very important: Do not work in a vacuum.You have to surround yourself with trusted people. You get so immersed in your work, you will not be able to see the forest from the trees. Frankly, you’ll be studying the pine needles and worrying about them.You need someone to help you back up and take a look at the forest and see where things are working or not working.And you need to surround yourself with people whose judgment you trust and they can be brutally honest with you.As an artist, showing unfinished work to people is really difficult. It’s really hard. It always is hard. It always will be hard. It never gets any easier, but you have to do it.Trust me, when you go from an outline to a treatment, your first treatment sucks and you do revisions and talk to people and you get something working really great.Go to your first draft of the script, it sucks. You do it a whole bunch of times.For us, we go to story reels, the first story reel sucks. But the longer you say, “I’m not ready yet, give me a little more time, give me a little more time,” and like that, it’s not going to help the problem.You’re just going to be polishing. You’re not going to see where it’s not working.Get it up there. Throw it up there as fast as you can, talk about it, tear it back down, put it back up there. Keep doing this.Surround yourself with people you trust.Be thirsty for knowledge.It will always make your work better. The market is changing really, really quickly.Who knows what the business will look like ten years from now?I know one thing for sure.We are The Academy of Motion Picture Arts  Sciences and we champion the power of human imagination.A conversation about the power of movies

The role of the marketer is drastically changing as technology becomes a critical part for how practitioners do their job. The channels by which customers interact with brands are exploding, as is the underlying connective tissue of analytics, content, acquisition and more. Hundreds of technologies enable marketers to identify and target customers, while personalizing the entire experience. However, with more tools comes greater uncertainty about which to invest in and implement.Marketers are now required to understand and build powerful best of breed technology stacks, and formulate the strategy to integrate these tools with key business objectives. This is a burdensome and confusing task, which is why we created the Growthverse.The visualization is one of the first tools to help all marketers — startup-through-Fortune 50 — easily find, learn about and implement the right tools and services for their marketing team.After years of investing across this ecosystem, from early players like Offermatica (now Adobe Test and Target) and Responsys (acquired by Oracle) to new emerging entrants such as Qualtrics, Hootsuite, Usertesting and Segment.io, we are continuously curious and passionate about supporting the leading entrepreneurs and technologies in this category.As the industry evolves, we’re particularly focused on the new wave of vendors that help manage and offer insights about the marketing stack. Specifically:There is the opportunity to build a platform that better organizes marketing teams. This solution will help marketers more effectively collaborate while striking the proper balance between the science and art of marketing.The explosion of new marketing channels, paired with traditional marketing responsibilities, requires a next-generation analytics platform. Marketers can benefit from a central console to manage multi-channel marketing attribution, next-level metrics beyond click behavior (such as engagement) and visualized insights to make data easily digestible and exciting.Marketers require a 360-degree customer view in order to operate in a true customer centric manner. We envision there being a “brain” that learns and orchestrates all appropriate marketing actions across the entire landscape driven by a centralized and comprehensive customer database. This will be “the hub” that powers most marketing actions.If you are building software in any of the above areas, we would love to speak with you.Many more companies, if not entire categories, will be added over time to Growthverse. If you have a company that should be added to this list simply submit it through the online form. We are excited to have you part of the Growthverse experience!Accel Partners is a leading early  growth-stage venture capital firm, powering a global community of entrepreneurs. Connect with us at Stories and perspectives from the global Accel family.

Sometimes “Many have thought, returning large amounts of carbon to soil would take centuries. These folks only needed decades — and maybe less.”It would be amazing if this knowledge (which has been around for decades) were known by the rest of the ranching world.More related good stuff over at CEO of Medium // 

OK, I have to keep this really, really short because I’m on a Although I was dubious, I have to admit that it’s been totally great so far — We’re only about 55 minutes in — but I felt so cleansed, I wanted to get a post up on the topic.Here’s a perfect example of our new, offline family. On most Friday nights when I’m still coming off the work week, I tend to be distracted, avoid eye contact, stare alternately at my phone and laptop, and become violently irritated the second either of my kids tries to get my attention. Tonight’s been totally different. My seven year-old daughter wanted me to read to her. Instead of screaming something like, “Read it your goddamn self, Daddy’s going viral,” I took a deep breath and then pretended I desperately had to the use the bathroom, ran in, slammed the door and started making grunting and groaning noises while I sent off a few mission critical emails.It worked like a charm. My daughter didn’t feel neglected or get the notion that I’d chosen technology over her. Later, I used the same trick on my son a few times (once when he wanted to show me his science project and later when he said something about having just lost a tooth). After I’d run into the bathroom eight or nine times, my kids got pretty curious. So I decided to tell them that Daddy had something called explosive bowels.They didn’t know exactly what that meant. Usually, when the kids want to learn about something new, I have them look it up on their iPhones. But this is our Technology Shabbat, so I wanted them to come up with a less technological way to find the answer. So I had them use a Windows Phone. (The extra time it took them to figure out the user interface afforded me the chance to make a couple quick fantasy football draft picks, and make sure I didn’t have any outstanding issues to discuss with Slackbot.)I’ve been making adjustments like these all night, and truth be told, it’s not all that hard once you make the heatfelt decision to go off grid. For example, I made sure my Tweets were a little less entertaining than usual — I once even elaborated on someone else’s joke — in an effort to keep Retweets to a minimum. While trying to save time playing Words with Friends, I purposely wasted a Z on the word And right now, since I don’t want my kids to think I’d put getting a few Internet pageviews on this post ahead of our much needed “we time,” I made the reasoned decision to write this in my car — a few blocks away from our house. And they don’t suspect a thing because I told them I was going out to get a pack of cigarettes. It’s a bit odd that they believed me considering that there are only two things I almost never do: Smoke, go out.Anyway, like I said, I’ve got to keep this short. After I post this essay and check its stats a couple hundred times, I’m gonna dock all my gear in my USB wall of chargers, put on my Jawbone sleep monitor, and hit the sack. I want to be fully rested for the last few hours of our new, offline family. It feels so great to be living in the now.Shabbat Shalom.I write NextDraft, a quick and entertaining look at the day’s most fascinating news.

If you’re anything like me, you reach for your smartphone as soon as you wake up to check email and respond to texts. The rest of the day, you’re constantly on a tablet, mobile device, laptop or desktop for personal or professional use. You’re messaging, browsing, friending, tweeting and sharing.It’s great that we have the technology to connect with people across the globe instantly,but there’s also a sense of disconnection. If there’s an internet-capable device with a screen anywhere nearby, the immediate world doesn’t get our full attention. It got me thinking about the long term impact of technology on personal interactions, so I can’t tell you how many times I’ve wondered what someone meant by their words — whether on social media, in a text or over email. Unless you see the person’s face, hear their voice and understand the environment, you have no idea the context surrounding the written words. Misunderstandings, miscommunications and assumptions result, which have an a hug, a handshake or a pat on the back. Once in awhile, I get “stickers” and “emojis” on social media. The thumb’s up symbol or smiley face is cute, but it doesn’t make me feel a personal connection with the poster. Do you use technology to pet your dog or cat? Not likely, because they couldn’t care less. Sometimes we fail to realize that, as humans, we’re also animals that need personal touch.“Stan” married his college sweetheart. After two months of marriage, he walked into the home office to find his wife chatting with someone on Facebook. She assured him theguy was just a friend, but Stan soon saw the person’s name all over his wife’s news feed and posts. Not long after, she traveled to meet the man — staying at his place. Their child was born within a year after the visit.Stan sees that whole relationship as something that started and developed entirely online. He’s convinced his ex-wife’s behavior would have manifested at some point, but technology drove the two of them apart faster. Stan’s new relationship started through an online dating site, but he quickly moved it into the real world. He’s understandably not a fan of developing relationships through social media.Is this a too-dismal view of technology in human relationships? I’d love to hear your thoughts.Bryan is also a renowned global speaker, consultant, and CEO of a digital and content agency, In a unique sharing experiment conducted in his recent TED Talk titled For a complete list of speaking engagements, or to book Bryan at your next event, I believe in power of sharing! TED  Keynote #Speaker, CEO of 

By At Work-Bench Ventures, we invest in early stage enterprise technology startups. HR is an area where we have been spending significant time. Our first portfolio company exit was We’ve learned that a lot has changed over the last two decades in HR. Candidates now prioritize learning experiences over becoming permanent fixtures at one organization. HR Technology itself started in early 2000 as a form of process automation, which then saw a rise with integration and new talent applications. HR Software represents a We define recruiting as the effort to attract the best individuals for your organization, and it is changing rapidly with the application of big data technologies.Hiring platforms are similar to recruiting but come into play after the initial contact has been made. These platforms help onboard employees effectively and ideally infuse the process with organizational culture and values.The consumerization of healthcare has moved many employees to high deductible plans, shifting a greater portion of healthcare costs from companies to employees.The new reality is that employee engagement is your employee brand and it goes hand in hand with network recruiting. According to Deloitte, although retention, engagement, and culture are The 21st century employee wants easy to use learning approaches and resources. With a top global priority for HR Leaders being gaps in their leadership pipeline, they will need to develop their talent effectively and leverage more impactful solutions for organizational learning.We previously wrote about the importance of Trend: There is a compelling need to combine siloed internal and external datasets to derive insights on your employee populations. These can in turn lead to significant cost saving opportunities. One new tool that has been helpful here is This covers the full lifecycle of tools for HR Technology. In terms of the next 6–12 months, the three trends I see being most ready for large scale corporate adoption are the applications of data science for top of the funnel employee sourcing, utilizing MOOCs for better LMS learning materials, and combining massively siloed datasets to derive insights on employee populations. If you are working on any of these technologies, please feel free to reach out to me!Work-Bench is an enterprise technology VC fund in NYC. We support early go-to-market enterprise startups with community, workspace, and corporate engagement.

If you haven’t heard, Mr. Robot, a USA Network original series, is the newest addition to the family of television shows you should be watching. It’s a gripping psychological, cyber-nerd thriller-drama that’s received Quick synopsis — Elliot (played by Rami Malek), a cyber security engineer with social anxiety and a major drug problem, ends up working with an underground hacker collective to bring down corporate America.But, it’s actually less about technology and hacking than it sounds. It’s more than just a cyber-thriller. Throughout the show, Elliot draws parallels and observational hypotheticals between digital and human. For instance, the entirety of episode 3 (“d3bug.mkv”) is a play on human imperfections. Elliot compares each character’s own personal faults to software bugs:And episode 4 (“3xpl0its.wmv”) is all about how we can exploit those bugs in humans:Everyone has their vulnerabilities, bugs, and exploits. Just like computer systems, no person is impenetrable. With the right manipulation, deceit and cunning, there’s always a way in. We all have personal security flaws — backdoors that allow malicious intentions to slip past our security protocols, messing us up from the inside out. Which is why social engineering, aka “the art of hacking people,” exists. I mean, think about it. Our brains work similar to a computer. Strip the complications of emotion, morality, and cognitive learning, the basic functions are the same. We take in information and derive conclusions based on what we know. We use our own human algorithms to calculate outcomes, where as a computer uses mathematical means to determine an outcome. So couldn’t you consider us organic machines?There are other comparisons similar to these that are thrown about throughout the show — These parallels that Elliot draws throughout the show also begs the question, what would it be like if the digital world was part of the physical? Something that’s becoming more possible as we continue to innovate. We’re always looking for new ways to With the increasing amount of technological advancements in the world, our brains are practically taken over by machines on a daily basis. Think singularity. But not a robotic apocalypse, more like robotic integration. Eventually, we’ll become the machines. Technology is already so finely meshed with our society that we behave and interact with each other in a significantly different manner than we did a decade ago. It’s unavoidable.Mr. Robot is pointing out a unique perspective on the relationship between human and technology. Partially the reason that I’m currently captivated by this series.Writer, technophile, and internet traveler. No IT Dept: You’re On Your Own

Amidst the myriad of tech posts that flood Medium on a daily basis, I have something different to talk about.We all admit that modern technology has taken over our lives, for good of course. Us, being young people, rejoice at the breakneck speed technology can move at. But there are a group of people who cannot keep up — my parents.Well, not just — nothing else.They are almost like the teenagers five years ago, always on their phone with a mindless game or navigating through Facebook. Maybe it is just my country, I’m not sure, but it’s prevalent. And I saw something today that made me extremely sad.It broke my heart, and got me wondering — what kind of game can make you forget you have the most beautiful thing in the world, a being you created, the person you love with all your heart? What it means when you can’t and won’t even look into her eyes and even bother to listen to her.This is not just an isolated example, I’ve seen too many during my public commute to know that this is a very depressing and prevalent sight. I might not be a parent myself, and probably still have a long way before becoming one, but I know what I saw wasn’t right.The scene was so familiar years ago when it happened, when parents lament how their children were so affixed to their mobile devices that they gave up giving any shit about them. Look how the tables have turned when the slavery now gets passed to them. I’m uncertain whether to laugh or to cry.But all I can do now is hope that this storm passes.← Believer in change, acceptor of truth, but have yet to find them both.Home to some of the best stories on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.

My grandmother packed her bags, boarded a plane for Miami, Florida, and landed in the United States of America on October 9, 1962 — the day before her 34th birthday. All she knew was that she would start a life with four small children, in a new country that she would grow to lovingly refer to as Fate is a tricky creature; a few days later, the airports in Cuba were closed for commercial travel, making it nearly impossible to travel in and out of the country.Twenty years later, my father’s parents made a similar choice to leave Colombia at the height of political crisis, and also found their new home in Miami.My parents met there, and the rest of my life as I know it has been shaped by these events. It’s why I strongly believe in a This poses an interesting service design question: USCIS identified the challenge of this outdated system and began a five-year engagement with a technology vendor to tackle this issue. However, the project ran into the kinds of problems that IT projects in government too often face. The scope of the project was too large and the timelines too long. It used a traditional waterfall methodology, which meant that the first product releases happened years after the project began; and the agency was heavily reliant on specific vendors.Years into the process, when the project was finally due to deliver results, So last July, This reduces infrastructure costs and increases reliability and uptime.Before, executives would get emailed occasional reports with key stats on the system. Now they all have this dashboard loaded on their computers that updates in real-time.In November 2014, USCIS tested a digital I-90 Form (the application to renew or replace your green card) for three days and received close to 2,000 applications. The team collected customer feedback and data about the process, and in March 2015, USCIS hard launched the I-90, allowing for full electronic filing. So far, it’s seen over 40,000 applications. They’re now releasing improvements to the software every week, and hopefully even more frequently in the future.We traveled to USCIS operations centers in Kansas City, Missouri and Lincoln, Nebraska to learn how adjudicators work, how they make decisions, and how they talk about what they do. We saw the tools they made for themselves and the workarounds they’d created for their own internal processes that were making it harder to make decisions on requests. These observations gave us enough data to create a concept for a design that we took back into the field and got feedback on. From this, we started a program of regular intervals of usability testing.With the help of teams at I think often about the choices my family made, and how grateful I am for my grandparents’ bravery and determination.I believe that America deserves an immigration system that’s worthy of the people who come to our shores, seeking a better life for their families, contributing to our economy and our society. By keeping users at the heart of our work, fixing inefficient technology processes, and engaging in iterative and rapid design work, we can create change at the scale we want to see.But we can’t do this alone. The United States Digital Service is transforming how the federal government works for the American people. We need you: wh.gov/usds 

We who work in legacy media are beginning to get used to it: That young, aspiring media players tell us that old methods no longer work.This is Tim Pool describing how legacy media is struggling to change. The 29 year old from Chicago paints a picture of a generation growing up with YouTube, From the stage during Nordic Media Days in Bergen he showed videoes from the protests in Baltimore. He was close to the drama and elaborated on the fact that the big news channels, gathered all at one spot a couple of blocks away, and reported in the evening news something way different than what he had seen.Before telling everyone that “by the way I´m a hacker”, Pool also adressed the lack of knowledge among journalists when it comes to protecting information they have stored in phones and computers, especially on missions to conflict zones. He made clear how easy it is to hack a phone or computer full of sensitive information.I´m using Tim Pool as an example because of his technological approach to journalism — from discovery to production and presentation. For the YouTube-generation this is more natural than the evening news. Tim stands out as a new, relevant player in the media landscape, both as a producer and innovator. I´m not saying that everybody has to be like him but there´s a reason why he´s on the stage in front of hundreds of media people in desperate hunt for answers to the new media challenges.Many will argue that they have adopted new technology and gained a foothold in a digital workflow. But this is much more than producing live video from a smartphone rather than a satellite truck. Or having a mobile first mindset when the next long read is published.I finished my studies at the school of journalism in Oslo in 2002, 7 years after the first newssites went live in Norway. During my studies we barely touched on web publishing in one semester. It was when I started in It has been 11 years with high speed development of the media industry and journalism. At the center all the way: Technology. How has journalism education developed in the same period? I recently examined the curriculum of a graduate of a journalism school in Norway . There is a long list of ethics, power structures in society, press history and writing, to name a few. All of this is very relevant but nowhere on the list could I read the word technology. That is disastrous.Why isnt software engineering, data science, user experience and product development a part of the journalism curriculum? If we gain basic knowledge of these subjects journalism will be forward-thinking. Journalism must be a part of technology, not apart.Let me quote Sundve:Let´s fast forward a few years — who is going to get a job in media? It will no longer be about making as many people as possible good at using digital tools in the workflow. We´re beyond that. The discovery, production, publication and curation of content is all digital and technology-driven and you will loose the game if you´re not working within that framework. You should understand the language of code. I´m not talking about making everyone senior developers but just having the basic knowledge of the code and technology used in our industry.With this basic understanding you´ll be able to influence the development of new products and tools which can enrich and give your content life. There will be a requirement that you have an analytical approach to everything you create and have ever created and that you have the overall user experience in focus.In 2013 VG wrote about a high ranking politician who broke into young girls iCloud accounts, stole nude pictures of them and then distributend the images on online forums. It was the hacker Journalism has actually never stood stronger and it has never been better positioned to reach and engange with as many people. But we stand at a crossroad. Shall we continue to run after disrupters and tech players like The education system needs to takes action quickly, otherwise they run the risk of producing graduates who are unqualified to work in the modern media landscape. Journalism graduates who do not understand technology will not survive the digital future. Media houses will end up employing different more suitable candidates.Digitalredaktør VG / Digital Editor at vg.no — Twitter: 

Reading together has always been important to me. It’s the reason I started up an instance of When I kicked off this project, I scoured nearly 6+ years of Evernote clippings and archived syllabi and PDFs, and dusted off my copy of Zotero to compile a megalist. The list is a foundation of all the influences, arguments, and conversations that led me to this project and motivates my desire to carve out this space more clearly. These works have informed my approach to writing about technology.More on the project:I’m doing a deep dive into this background reading, revisiting favorites, getting around to stuff that I know I should have read by now. I’m sharing my notes and thoughts when I can, and I’ll write up some of the important things that surface throughout this research process.Eventually, I plan to turn this list into a more polished syllabus or suggested reading list for journalists in the field and for students in training. And while they may not directly apply to journalistic writing, I’m including fiction and movies here, too because I think they can have a big impact on public discourse about technology.In the interest of participatory research, I could use your help to build out this list in progress. Given my interdisciplinary background, this list is by no means comprehensive or canon. And I’m drawing in a few less-than tradition sources like podcasts and literary fiction that are doing some important work that I think exemplifies a critical, balanced, and humanist approach to constructive technology criticism.What are your favorite examples of technology criticism? What books or articles influence the way you think and write about technology? Any examples of tech writing that make you cringe? Where are my institutional and disciplinary blind spots? What are the pieces of technolgoy writing you keep going back to, the ones that made you go “huh,” the ones that got you so angry you tweetstormed about them? And if you’ve got a suggestion for a more dynamic tool for collaborative reading lists, send it my way!Technology critic, Fellow 

We would have probably started and / or participated in similar conversations when deciding on solutions to use in our product’s technology stack.But let’s face it, are these really the type of questions that should dominate the discussion surrounding the topic of which technologies we should adopt for our product?Sure, they are important points to consider, but my concern with these types of questions is that they are often asked in the absence of context pertaining to the product we’re building.Thus, before tackling the technical qualities of the proposed solutions, I feel that it might be a good idea to consider a couple of other aspects.Surrounding every popular framework are groups of brilliant engineers who make up its community and in choosing to adopt this particular solution, we will inevitably be interacting a lot with these guys.Some things to ponder upon:These are, in my opinion, important questions worth considering when it comes to evaluating a solution for use in our technology stack.But, if I were to pick the most important criteria in selecting a framework, it would be this.Some other framework(s) could be more performant out of the box, it has been battle tested by massive companies, some of the greatest minds are behind it, it’s modern and hip…But if it ends up making our lives difficult, whether it be because the team is not experienced in, or finding it hard to understand, the philosophy behind the solution or that there is a really steep learning curve. All it does is that it leads to poorer code quality, longer turnaround times to ship new features, leading to non-existent value-add to our users.Hence, the only benefit in adopting such a solution, is that it makes ourselves feel good, because we’re using the latest and obviously coolest technology solution.Admit it, we’ve probably done that at some point in our careers.Truth is, it really doesn’t matter if we’re using hipster.js, some cutting edge service written in 10 lines of code, a persistent storage system that’s webscale, or whatever.In my honest opinion, what’s most important is that our chosen stack is one that complements our team’s collective experience and knowledge, resulting in better productivity levels and most definitely, happier developers.So, if there’s no synergy between our chosen technology stack and the team of extremely bright engineers that we work with, what’s the point?Don’t pick the solution that makes you look cool. Pick one that enables you and your team to build a great product for your users.Just a regular guy who likes writing code and collecting sneakers.

To mobilize such an endeavor, we position technology and design at the heart of our operation. At the kernel level of our operating system, we are building a framework to transmute a static space into an intelligent, dynamic, functioning one. We provide 3 core services to automate a space: with cleaning, maintenance and supplies. Under this layer we have sophisticated services to orchestrate session management, dispatch, granular task instructions and more. The core application is written in Python on top of Django which is exposed with REST frameworks. This is our back-end API and automation layer via Celery worker queues. Our data is stored in MySQL on Amazon RDS with Redis as a caching layer. The application and all other services are hosted on AWS. We automate our deployment pipeline with internal tools along with continuous integration to help us ensure we can push updates as fast and as often as possible. Along with the core, we have front-end servers to provide real-time data communication with our interfaces which leverages Node.js, WebSocket and Redis.Our operating system needs an interface and many of them. There are lots of entry points, starting with an iPad we mount in every physical space we manage. This provides our customers with a way to connect and interact with their space. We built this as a native iOS application to give the most fluid experience for our customers. All other interfaces are either written in a proprietary JS framework or React library alongside Flux application architecture. React has been great for building modular, and dynamic UI components. Our front-end applications utilize Gulp for managing dependencies, minification, and deployment. In the not so distant future we envision many other ways to connect with a space such as Slack and other integration points.Our operating system churns out lots of data and at Q we love data. We leverage it to make a space more self aware to better serve its inhabitants. For this, we have built a data pipeline to collect and analyze data which feeds back into our application. We have leveraged Snowplow for fast raking of data from all sources to a centralized data warehouse, stored in AWS Redshift. Our data scientists then have full control to model and analyze data. As of right now we primarily use Looker for post analysis.While we are hard at work at perfecting our core operating system and scaling it to serve many more customers, we are also fast at work at experimenting and building beyond these core services. By creating a space that is more self-aware and autonomous it will become a transparent entity. It will work alongside its inhabitants to enable unparalleled control over the space, meeting the demands a physical space needs. We cannot wait to show what we have in store and are facing some interesting and unique challenges.Our design and engineering culture is fast, open, passionate and collaborative. We pride ourselves on delivering the best crafted experience by coupling design and engineering deeply coupled together. We’re all operators, but we’re all unique, and we look for ways to diversify and add culture to the team.We are looking for great Product Engineer at Managed By Q

SVP, Digital Strategy and Innovation @ SS+KNo IT Dept: You’re On Your Own

I have recently realized that my best creative time is when… the internet connection is down or there’s no WiFi available. Or when I forget to take my smartphone for a walk with my dog. Or when my phone’s battery is down and I’m on the tram back home.Yes, I know it’s no news. Or is it, maybe? For me it was an important realization. I never wanted to see technology as something that would hinder my creativity. Quite the opposite: I thought it was something supportive. I get to read inspiring pieces whenever and wherever I want. I can use all the spare time that I have productively. I can access almost infinite amounts of knowledge within a few taps on a device in my pocket.But what good there is from stuffing myself with all that, when there’s so little space for digesting it?I found that I need free mental space for reflection. For free thoughts. For just letting ideas flow around in my head. It is somehow difficult if you take your phone even to the bathroom (oh come on, who actually have never ever done that?) and walk your dog with eyes on Facebook. It is hard to sit in front of a blank page for 15 minutes waiting for inspiration to come when there’s a never-ceasing shimmer of new stuff flowing in the background. Only one of the most traditional “eureka” places, where the best ideas come, is left mostly untouched by tech: the shower. But my environmental conscience tells me I shouldn’t use it without restraint.I am too often defeated by the voice in my head that tells me not to waste time and to use up every available minute. And there’s this insane illusion that it’s possible to be really up-to-date. You can’t be up-to-date even if you hooked up Twitter into your vein. And you’re not really more intelligent or knowledgeable with every article you scan (we don’t actually I want my idle time back! (and with no guilt in the package)I need time to reflect on life. I need space to appreciate what’s around me. I need thoughts to carelessly collide to unexpected outcomes. I need time to really find out what is my opinion, what I feel, what’s my view. I need space to not analyze anything for a change, without having to resort to measures such as dumbing myself down with more web-based stuff. I need the luxury of staring into space pointlessly for a moment or two, waiting for that fleeting feeling to settle in me.I want to tell that guilt-tripping voice in my head: thinking, reflecting, just being and absorbing life is not a waste of time. It is exactly how the time is well-spent. This is how wisdom is created, this is how we get in touch with the real life. Tell the same thing yours and just go for a walk, hands free.And one more thing. Let’s not make it into a “having idle time to be more productive” trap. Yes, Stargazer. Knowledge-gatherer. Sci-Fi fan. Dreamer. Diversity  Equality Supporter. Process-work Psychoterapist.

I’m not a man.I’m not a programmer.And I was not born in the United States.And here I am, a founder of one quite successful tech startup.To be completely honest, I was born in Central Europe. I studied diplomacy. And when I decided to build my first business, I was living in Lebanon, language of which I didn’t speak and where I barely knew anyone. The only things I had were my laptop and very poor Internet connection.Actually, these proved to be rather powerful tools in the end. They helped me to learn everything about online marketing, to build my first blog, design my first logo, create my first website, prototype and validate my idea, attract my first customers, and manage my finances using a simple web tool.Fast forward to 2015, I happen to run a full-fledged online platform used and loved by thousands of users from all around the world.My co-founder is of Moroccan origin. He got his PhD in Architecture in Belgium and spent many years When we met in Indonesia a while back, he knew very little about tech and startups. Today, he drives revenue for the company via contacts with international advertisers, organizes events in several countries at once, and forges partnerships with major players in the industry.Adil has managed to become an absolutely indispensable part of the company. From day one, he learned how to use CRM and email tracking apps to help him manage the thousands of his contacts, track his deals, and monitor the sales process.As you can see, we’re not your traditional tech entrepreneurs. Traditionally, people imagine that to build a multi-billion startup you should be ideally in your twenties, a white male, preferably residing in the Silicon Valley.But what if you’re a girl from Morocco who wants to run her own fashion shop? What if you’d like to sell your products on eBay from Ghana, or if you work hard on improving your community in a small Chinese village?And by technology, I don’t mean anything too complex or unattainable. By technology, I mean web apps, mobile apps, useful software and online tools that are easy to use and very affordable. All these tools make businesses much more productive, save them thousands of work hours, and significantly slash their costs.Imagine that you’ve just decided to start a business and applied for a loan of $20,000. Obviously, one of the first things a business needs today is a website. In the past, you would call a programmer who would charge you a couple thousand dollars. If you fancy a sleek design and cool logo, add a few more… and almost a half of your budget is easily gone.Nowadays, we’re lucky to have website builders that can help us create a professional looking website, domain and hosting included, within few hours, for a price of 2–3 Starbucks coffees a month.Then, as somebody with little experience in tracking down expenses, you would call an accountant to help you with putting the books in order. Another dent in your resources. Again, luckily, there are so many apps at our disposal these days, from those that can log travel expenses on our smartphones, to those that take care of the whole small business accounting, including payroll, issuing invoices, or receiving payments. Many of them completely free.Any business needs a lawyer. Even if you run a simple website, you need to include terms  conditions and privacy policy. When you hire your first employee, or even a freelancer, you need to agree on a binding contract. However brief and simple you wish to have these documents at the beginning, a legal professional could easily charge you a few hundred dollars per agreement.But wait… How about downloading a free template from some of the vast online databases of legal and business documents, which serve a plethora of different industries?These are just a few basic examples of how new technologies can help people all around the globe to become entrepreneurs practically overnight. Not only can we deal with our money, legal issues, and online presence with the help of helpful and affordable software; there are apps for practically everything already, from designing marketing materials without any designing skills, or building a mobile app without any coding knowledge, to communicating with a remote team, sending and accepting bitcoins, or even analyzing big data.There are over 125,000,000 small and medium businesses all over the globe. And all these businesses can make good use of all the incredible tools that are launched on the market every single day.There’s only one apparent problem.Software companies and app developers primarily market their products to big enterprises and startups. Why? Because big corporations have big budgets, and members of startup communities are early adopters, therefore it’s quite easy to convince them to try out new products. However, these companies are only a tiny fraction of all the existing businesses.For people like us, who work in tech and are surrounded by other startups, it is easy to forget that the rest of the world is still predominantly depending on Excel or cumbersome obsolete software at best. I do believe technology can and should empower entrepreneurs all around the world, regardless of their age, origin, gender, or level of experience.Next time, instead of posting something cool on Reddit, let’s teach our mom how to better use her Gmail. Or instead of installing yet another photo-editing app, let’ s help an “IT virgin” friend with setting up an online store. And for once, instead of complaining how internet and social media are ruining our social competences and human relationships, let’s relish the thought that technology can make it possible for millions of people from Hawaii to Cook Island to become financially self-sufficient.Anyone can be an entrepreneur. And the best is yet to come.and she was that girl who wanted to be happy | CEO All things #startup, venture capital,  #technology. Content of all lengths and variations. Currently looking for writers. Email me: 

When we talk about technology changing the world we often hear about how it makes our lives easier, more connected, safer or even healthier. They’re all things we can easily identify with. The internet makes our lives easier, services like Skype and WhatsApp allow us to be more connected — the examples are endless.But what of fairness? The sharing economy, championed by the likes of Uber and Airbnb, is an interesting example. While it doesn’t necessarily make the market fairer, it allows more people to enter and therefore drives down prices.One industry where fairness is growing thanks to technology is finance. Traditional consumer finance has been unfair for decades. Banks have had a monopoly on financial services and have been able to overcharge and underserve consumers. In the UK, for instance, banks and brokers charge up to 5% of the money sent in hidden fees.There aren’t many fintech companies stepping in to run banks as we know them, but there are a number of new players that are slicing off a service normally run by a bank and doing it much better. Funding Circle is doing it in SME lending, Square in card payments, Zopa in peer-to-peer lending, to name just a few examples.Ultimately we’re all working towards the same goal, and that’s not necessarily to bring down the banks. The banks will probably still be here in 15 years, but with the rise of fintech I hope we’ll see a financial sector that has significantly reduced levels of friction and unfairness for consumers.At As a result, TransferWise was born. We match people transferring currency in opposite directions around the world so that money never crosses borders. That means we are able to help consumers move their money for a small one-off fee often as low as 0.5%. And we always use the mid-market exchange rate (meaning we’re up to 89% cheaper than banks in the UK, for instance).We built TransferWise focussed on customer innovation. That means we build our product based first and foremost on our customers. That doesn’t just mean testing improvements on customers. We also open new currency routes based on customer requests and our product teams work closely with our customer service team to better understand issues with our product. And then they fix them.We’re able to work like this not just using technology, but because of it. Not being bound by the ageing systems that hold the banks back allows us to innovate and build TransferWise rapidly. It has allowed us to build a product that is both cheaper than banks and, importantly, is transparent with its customers.As technology progresses, I believe that Help us fight for fairness in finance, sign the The clever new way to transfer money between countries.Ideas from the team behind the TransferWise revolution.

The purpose of this blog post is to attempt to synthesize certain fundamental lessons on strategy that are relevant for anyone trying to build a business.To ensure we are on the same page, and thinking about the issues from the same starting point . . . first, some definitions.Some additional observations about strategy;He describes the following factors that influence strategy and competition within an industry;The key is for startup founders and their investors to analyze each of the five forces that shape competitive strategy within the context of each of these factors. The factors are not inherently good or bad, but must be assessed in the context of the the five forces and the impact they have on developments within the industry.Game theory has two distinct branches: In classical game theory, players move, bet, or strategize simultaneously. Both hidden information and chance elements are frequent features in this branch of game theory, which is also a branch of economics.”For a flavor of the wide application of game theory;Following are some observations based on their paper:The Goals Grid focuses startup founders’ attention by asking 4 questions;It then connects these questions to the problems the startup’s founders seek to solve by rephrasing those questions;The analyses can be performed using the grid below.Some observations about the goals grid;Sometimes people who are unaccustomed to thinking about strategy can become paralysed by the volumes of information they have to consider during the process of developing a strategy for an organization; a startup, a company, a corporation, or a division of a corporation. Any kind of organization can use a form of this framework to narrow down its choices.The vertical axis represents assets or ” degree of asset reusability” while the vertical axis represents customers or “degree of customer reusability”. In the diagram below I have used assets and customers respectively. One difference is that if I had labeled the axes “degree of asset reusability” and “degree of customer reusability” respectively then I would have also had to label them so that they go from “High” near the origin to “Low” as one moved farther from the origin along each axis.Generally, activities in As the diagram illustrates the activities labelled A, B, C, and D should relatively easily be migrated from their respective originating quadrants once they are sufficiently mature. In the case of A  B, the new customers stick around long enough for the startup to develop a close and relatively durable bond with them. We can go through a similar thought process for C  D. The key is for startup founders to figure out how to quickly move A, B, C and D into Quadrant 1 as quickly as possible.The activities labelled E pose a tougher challenge. Generally it is best to avoid them at all cost. Pursuing those activities places the startup at risk of material and substantial loss. Any decision to pursue them requires careful analysis of what it will take to conduct the RD required to develop the product, as well as estimates of the costs that have to be incurred in order to create demand and win new customers for that product and for the startup. Sometimes its just a matter of timing, but at other times the issues at play are more complex, creating an opaque environment that makes it difficult to make such assessments, and often making it difficult to move those activities into one of the other three available quadrants. DNFD does not mean “don’t do that under any circumstance” but rather “you better have a really good reason for doing that” and so there are situations under which careful strategic analysis leads to one conclusion and one conclusion only . . . You better fucking do that or you’ll get killed. We’ll look at an example below.A strategic plan should cover:When I have collaborated with others in creating strategic plans in the past those plans started out as notes in my notebook. Then they migrated to notes in a word processor, and finally to a presentation deck that management could use to guide organization-wide conversation about overall strategy, as well as brief summaries, explanations, examples and ideas to help managers communicate the message down the organization. However, the most important work started at the front-lines; studying customers, talking to be people directly doing the work that leads to the creation, delivery and fulfillment of the organization’s value proposition to its customers. That is where the real work of creating strategy occurs.A strategic plan should be readily and easily accessible to everyone in the organization, and should be updated as frequently as is necessary to suit the startup’s goals and objectives.Early stage VC 

Do you talk to your dog? If you answered no, then you are probably unable to speak, or a pathological liar — everyone talks to their dog. Do you confide in your dog? People and dogs have co-evolved for thousands of years. Recent genetic evidence shows that this joint domestication may have started more than 40,000 years ago. Dogs have provided protection, companionship, and hunting assistance since prehistoric times. The mutually beneficialrelationship between humans and dogs has helped each other to survive. Almost half of all Americans have at least one dog, and most people talk to their pets — whether they actually understand each other is another story. Most people say they can recognize when their pets are happy by certain canine expressions, such as an open relaxed mouth. And it turns out for certain emotions, such as happiness and anger, humans are fairly accurate in determining feelings of their canines.In addition to being loyal companions, dogs have a remarkable sense of smell that overpowers our own by orders of magnitude — it’s 10,000 to 100,000 times as acute, scientists say. “Let’s suppose they’re just 10,000 times better,” says James Walker, former director of the Sensory Research Institute at Florida State University, who, with several colleagues, came up with that jaw-dropping estimate during a rigorously designed, ofent-cited study. “If you make the analogy to vision, what you and I can see at a third of a mile, a dog could see more than 3,000 miles away and still see as well.” Dogs noses are the most reliable approach to detecting any type of scent, since humans have yet to build a device that can match the dog’s keen sense of smell.A team of doctors at UC Davis Medical School are training Charlie, a four-The role of dogs in society, not just as pets, has continued to change as the relationship between humans and dogs has evolved. Because of dogs’ ability to interact with humans and their unique capabilities, dogs perform many invaluable roles for humans, including acting as canine companions, sensory replacements (seeing eye dogs), medical guardians, search and rescue, security, explosive and drug detection, and now, perhaps, medical diagnosis. Considering the many roles dogs perform and their close interactions with humans, can we really understand what dogs are thinking, especially when helping to save lives?Researchers from North Carolina State University are developing high-tech harnesses for rescue dogs that aid in disaster relief and recovery. The vests are equipped with sensors and communication devices to help rescue teams better communicate with the dogs as part of a coordinated response. According to the article, “The researchers embedded communication technology into the harness such as speakers and vibration devices so that handlers could remotely relay commands to the animals, such as ‘perform a search’ or ‘turn back.’ They are training the animals to respond to nudges from the vest, ‘like a vibrating cellphone,’ using reward-based training. The harnesses can be customized depending on the situation. For example, if there was a natural-gas leak, the harness could be fitted with a natural-gas sensor. The vests also include sensors that can monitor the dog’s behavior and physiology, such as a heart-rate monitor, to track the dog’s health or determine if the dog found a scent or object of interest.”Just as one’s man’s trash is another man’s treasure, one man’s best friend can be another’s nemesis. As the sensory abilities of dogs are put to more and different uses, your dog might turn out to be a rat. Dogs are now being used in “scent lineups” in several states including Texas, Alaska, Florida and New York and their “testimony” is admissible in court. Dogs are also being trained and tested as lie detectors that have the potential to be much more accurate than polygraphs that are currently in use. “Bugging” a person’s dog could be much more helpful than a telephone tap. If you can’t trust your dog, who can you trust?Exploring emerging sensory technologies within the Homeland Security arena…because of course your government should know more about you than your family?!?A Platform For Radical Homeland Security Experimentation. Editorial guidelines: 

I hung a quilt in my office yesterday. It was not sewn by any of my ancestors, but a great-great-aunt did have the good taste (and fortune) to buy it.The quilt not only brightens the room, but also brings a feminine touch to what is, yes, the office of the first woman to be Chief Technology Officer at HHS.It also reminds us that many hands on a project — such as a quilting bee — can create a beautiful whole, just as Technology has become a muddy term, interpreted through the sometimes narrow lens of the beholder, like the parable of the For example, the largest quilt in the world — the I remember walking along the narrow paths between sections of the quilt when it covered the entire National Mall in Washington, DC, in 1996. Hand-made squares, each one memorializing a life lost.We cannot forget that chapter of health care. And we cannot forget the prehistory of modern technology, as Virginia Postrel She goes on:What do you think? What do you keep nearby to inspire you? What aspects of technology are you most excited about these days?I help people navigate health and technology.

Recently I did something odd. I watched a movie; a movie so interesting that I watched another in succession. What the movies didn’t do to me was anything but spook my mind with imagination, and thus bred way for hard questions that have been lingering on my mind for a while.Particularly was this criminally underrated 2014 movie, What confounded me, however, was the prophetic nature of the script. Whereas it came out in 2014, the story was manifested in 2015 following the corruption scandals that rocked the global footballing association. The movie exposes foul activities in FIFA from cold politicking to vote rigging to bribery right from the time it was founded to present day. The epicenter of the movie is FIFA’s current president, Sepp Blatter. In the last quarter of the prophetic story, Sepp Blatter, just like he did a few months ago, vehemently refuses to resign amid external pressures of legitimate concern, playing along Machiavelli’s quote in It would be pedestrian to put world football and the tech space in Uganda on the same pedestal. Actually, it’s contemptible to even try to forge a relationship between the two. But to me, I see distinct relationships between the two and how they build up in the miff I am about to drop. Before you chortle at leftist or rightist allegories, allow me tell the story.You see, technology, just like football, is about people; bringing joy and promoting unity and changing the world. The differences are insurmountable but if there is a silver lining. Tech is a science and football is an art. To use a pithy example, of advertising agencies; Facebook is the biggest Ad agency online in the same way FIFA is the biggest Ad agency offline. The relationship is not black or white but one that cross fades gracefully from one gradient to another.Honestly speaking, Uganda’s tech space, especially the startup scene, is such a mess. It looks bright, just like a child who’s been smeared with lots of baby jelly, but on a close inspection, is very dirty.The other day I came to a sombre realization about the inner workings of some ICT Association in Uganda, whose members I highly respect and look up to. The board of members is well connected to the high end and seems to be using the platform for good intentions. But good intentions don’t pay bills, perhaps that’s why they have become a conduit of personal gain of sorts; be it through endorsements, partnership with foreign development partners, speaking engagements, name it. This reminds me of Sepp Blatter’s predecessor, João Havelange. When he took office in the 70’s he knew that football was no longer a preserve of Europe or the Americas. His vision to spread out to emerging markets in Africa and Asia is arguably, the biggest milestone of his 24 year career at the helm. That’s why he had romanticized affairs with presidents of African football governing bodies. In the movie, president of CAF once wryly complained that he was being spoilt too much during one of the executives’ meet in Zurich. It wasn’t for fanfare, the pampering wasn’t out of love.Well, same for global tech giants like Microsoft, Google, IBM et al. They certainly know too well that Africa is the next frontier and they’re not only willing to invest substantial resources but are also competing among themselves to grab the biggest piece of the pie. And local organisations such as the aforementioned are situated to tap into such opportunities by acting as liaisons and local chapters. No wonder, the innovation hub model has moved quickly from good hands to boxing gloves. The model of being on the receiving end is not sustainable and doesn’t endure. Perhaps divesting redundant and extravagant interests would curb the troubles, or maybe getting a critical mass of paying members would sustain these hubs. Nay.With exception of South Africa, Nigeria and Egypt and to a less extent Kenya. Startups (and innovation hubs) are barely making any money, I am sure the stratospheric mortality rates are ones the World Health Organisation would be interested in looking into. It’s absurd. Yet we continue to see these government and privately founded agencies and associations touting mother Uganda as the garden of entrepreneurship Eden. They use startups that hit global news 5 years ago as poster children at every opportunity they get — yet these startups are defunct today. They were unicorns then, they were outliers. And outliers don’t set a good example simply because that model is not scalable.For countries like China where the media is highly censored, and in Rwanda where the media is not that vibrant, enormous efforts are made in selling the countries. Through trade, for China, and attention to ethics, development and detail for Rwanda. Uganda, at the moment is such a hard sell, the media is lacking, we don’t have the clout to When journalists and bloggers don’t query the status quo, then people won’t really have a voice to take a stance, and neither will policy makers get uncomfortable enough to know that things are not right, notwithstanding the power of the brown envelope. In the US, Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) is a foundation that is at the front of protecting fundamental human rights regardless of technology through innovation litigation, policy analysis, grassroots activism among others. It’s not a lone wolf. Many others are doing the grunt work to see complete elimination of repressive legislation such as I don’t think for something to win, something has to lose, from a values system point of view. Take this instance, there is a Computer Emergency Response Team (There are a furore of oddities of the same kind but their order of magnitude is less forgiving if they are messing with people directly. Most of these are in the corridors of power, that’s why an infamous incident like MPs’ iPad procurement deal which cost an arm and leg only got people screaming their lungs out in protest yet were quick to forget as fast as they could spell the name Jack Daniels. The real lobbying and arm twisting takes place in the dark and the tunnel is a tad too long.Last year, the Netherlands Trust Fund launched a project to enable easier export of Uganda’s IT services. When you see the What makes us think that the Netherlands wants to use our services over theirs which are much more superior and polished? Of course, price. Our services are priced at subsistence levels and are an incentive for many who are either unemployed or earning below that. It’s not a privilege of some well tucked firms to benefit from this, the unicorns of our league, it should be as collective as it individualist as possible. A company in Netherlands should be able to contract an independent consultant from Uganda in the same way it should be able to contract a small firm. It’s all about scale.The growth of the startup movement has raised a few eyebrows from Angel investors and Venture Capitalists alike. I can confidently say the future looked bullish 4 years ago, now it’s all charity. The money is given out for experimentation, no worries about losses. I am amazed at innovators who want to take on the government, God bless you hustle. With the help of financially strong donors, they want to disrupt education, health, power generation, name it. A social innovation is not going to build thousands of kilometers of rail or tarmac roads, or airport runways, nonetheless ship docks. A social innovation’s method of testing for malaria will need up until 50 years of successful tests and iterations for them to be allowed into the mainstream, A social innovation won’t do much other than give tablets for educational material to some school not in close proximity to an electricity grid, and oh, did I say the tablets would be solar charged and connected to the cloud? Wow.Ory Okolloh adds.Suddenly we feel we should reward ourselves for apparently taking on problems bigger than humanity. Remember the tablets for education I talked about earlier? Yes, MTN Uganda, through its Ad representative, MetropolitanRepublic was awarded a $1 million Loeries award for disrupting education in Uganda. It’s said that the ‘innovation’ was a digital library platform meant for rural schools that didn’t have access to reading and revising material. But as it turned out, the project was still on paper and up to date has never seen the light of the day. What a con! The budding travesty of this case is that many similar events go undetected and that’s the sad truth. Those that win awards or competitions mostly blow away that money and make Vegas seem like a small town square. Incidentally, some awards’ organisers strategically include blue chip companies on their nominations for reasons we need no prizes to guess. This year alone, Uganda has seen the highest number of award galores and galas, it’s disturbing and nauseating because in whatever angle you see it, there is a bunch of hungry fortune seekers planning for the next. It’s an unorthodox business model being implemented. This model needs to be quarantined and burned before it spreads out.To some on the other end, decommissioned nuclear bombs with an inscription on the sides, “space rocket” passes for the greatest advancement. Hoodwinked proper. Should adversaries cross the rubicon, whether thousands of nautical miles away, they will be served a cold dish. But when you realize that the biggest advancement is that that allows you to communicate in 140 characters or less, you get to know that simple is sophisticated, perhaps it’s time you did some smart soul searching. It’s not the complex things that only positively change the world but also things that promote unity and empathy; things simple like football and products of technology like bread slicers.Even when such revelations are glaring right in front of our eyes, we don’t really care, there is nothing much we can do. The best we have are hopes that we’re innovating and building something bigger than ourselves, we modern day slaves. Let’s forget it; we’re never going to build the next Facebook or Instagram. We don’t need to and neither do we have the resources anyway. Code is never going to do anything for us if the structures are not enabling. The western forces are simply pushing for an agenda that will see all of us tucked onto the internet and the Also known as ava.la.nche.I write about trends, media, politics  tech for the inquiring minds My musings

You might be wondering why a Chief Technology Officer would be part of a conference on aging. Isn’t tech a young person’s game?First of all, I love Alan Kay’s definition: Technology is anything invented after you were born.Second, my grandmother, who used a CB radio in the 1970s and bought one of the first Apple computers in the 1980s, inspires a different point of view. When I showed her the internet in 1995, she said, “I was born too soon.” Then she proved herself wrong by living another 11 years, a daily internet user. I learned to never assume that someone’s age determines his or her interest in or affinity for technology.I also believe we can learn from older adults and their use of technology. Studies show that if a website is optimized for older users, younger users benefit too. When I was building online tools, I would bring my laptop over to my grandmother’s house in Baltimore. She was my best beta tester. If it didn’t make sense to her, I would change the navigation.One possibility is that technology will start to disappear and become like electricity, something we don’t notice on a daily basis. For example, instead of all the gadgets we use today to track and measure our health, sensors might be sewn into our clothes.Another possibility is that technology becomes ever more present and intrusive, asking more of our attention and requiring even better eyesight and dexterity than the current smartphones require.I am hoping for the first version of the future. The one that helps us get back to the point of technology — to assist us, not to resist us. To connect us, not to divide us.For example, people living with Parkinson’s disease and other neurological disorders often develop a hand tremor, which makes it difficult to keep food on a spoon or fork. Liftware, a company in California, has created a set of utensils that counteract a tremor and allows someone to feed themselves. The research that drives this technology was supported by a grant from the National Institutes of Health.In addition to providing research grants, the federal government can convene and encourage communities of practice, such as the Health Datapalooza and the White House Maker Faire. And we can look for ways to lift barriers to innovation, which is what my team in the HHS IDEA Lab does, finding ways to hack red tape and help create programs like the NIH 3D Print Exchange, a platform for people to share templates, like the patterns you would use to sew a dress, but in this case it might be a template for printing a prosthetic hand or a model for a heart.Let’s continue the conversation about the future of aging and technology. Please share your ideas for how we might use data, connection, and invention to help all Americans live longer, healthier lives.The HHS IDEA Lab equips and empowers U.S. Department of Health and Human Services employees and members of the public who have an idea and want to act.

In week two Amcom Upstart participants were provided some great information on understanding conversion funnels in marketing. It was suggested there are five ‘core points’ which need to be understood in intimate detail to truly understand how people engage with, and purchase your product or service:How many people are interested in what you are doing? How can you measure this? Firstly implement simple things like looking at google analytics. Observe how many people are actually going to your webpage, and what pages on your site they are looking at.Secondly, collect their email address so you can contact them again later to more directly tell them about your product. Try adding If you are having a chat in person or at a conference, you can collect a phone number or business card so you can keep in touch and give the update them on what you’re business is doing if it is relevant to them.How much does it cost you to obtain each lead? Some of these costs are direct marketing costs for adverts on Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, in print media, through flyers, radio or television.Each advert, page impression or meeting will cost you money. It is useful to figure out exactly how much it costs you to get someone to look at your page. So how many page visits do you get for each GoogleAd you run? Being able to do the basic maths on that will allow you to understand your cost per lead.It is useful to try and test each contact medium (Facebook Ads, Google Adwords, LinkedIn Ad etc) in a clear experiment to begin to understand how each one works.It is important to know how much traffic they direct to you, when they direct traffic to you (and when they don’t), what type of traffic they direct to you. For example there is no point in get a whole heap of traffic from China, Uzbekistan or New Zealand if you aren’t actually able to sell your product in that country. If you know this information you can put your marketing budget towards mediums which actually attract the highest comparative rate of page views for the lowest cost. This might not end up being the cheapest type of ad, but it will be the type which directs more appropriate traffic than others.For each lead which is directed to you, how many of them actually purchase your product or service? How many are converted from simply perusing what is on offer, to purchasing it. If you can improve your quality of leads, or more directly target the people who are most likely to be searching for your solution you can improve the number of people who buy your service.How much are you actually selling your product for? If you increase your transaction price you may increase your revenue. However if you increase it too much you may well decrease your sales. Finding the appropriate price point to maximise both sales as well as revenue is a matter of repeated experimentation.Transaction frequency is how often people purchase your service or product from you. If you increase the frequency of transactions, you should be able to increase your revenue.To optimise your marketing you need to experiment with and challenge each of these points in your conversion funnel.Measure everything. Test everything. Marketing is not just based on hunches. It is based on educated guesses, which you try, test and see if the results match your initial hypothesis.To be able to experiment to gain true results firstly you must be collecting data points.If you aren’t collecting and storing data on what you are doing you will never actually know what is going on. If you don’t know what is actually going on there is no way you can make an educated decision based on evidence.Change the time of day/colour of your website/words in your email subject line/ add in a sale when you send out your campaigns. Try A/B testing. Each time you do ANYTHING make it an experiment, keep the results and compare them to previous results to truly learn what influence each variable has on the outcome you are interested in.As a simplistic example, if you attempt to concurrently run a Facebook ad campaign and an Google Adwords campaign it will be difficult to determine which one is actually having which influence on your site traffic. Make sure you are keeping a very close tab on the outcome of each experiment and separate them enough so you can understand the outcome of each.Try experimenting to shift each of the points in your conversion funnel individually to improve the efficiency of what you are selling and to garner a better understanding of how each component of your business is inter-related with the others. Don’t think that one result is the truth of the situation. Make sure you test your hypothesis and test it again as changes over time and in the world around you may influence your experimental results.Once you understand how your conversion funnel works you can optimise what you spend your marketing money on to spend the least amount of money for the biggest impact.Founder of RestAlert using wearable tech for behaviour analytics. Psychologist, geneticist, technologist, statistician and adventure sport enthusiast.Curated pieces on the emerging ideas, opinions, questions, and interviews from within the startup industry. 💸

Show a designer a beautiful piece of work and 9 times out of 10, their first question will likely be, “How was it made?”. In other words, what software and what techniques were used to create the final product? The tendency to inquire as to the means of production is only natural and all too common. Perhaps there’s no problem with this production-centric mindset. It’s certainly easier to describe a project as “created with Photoshop and Illustrator,” than to explain one’s reasoning behind color choices, layout, typography, and all the design decisions and iterations that lead to the final product. Then again, perhaps the tendency to focus on tools  technology first has a detrimental effect on how we think about design and on the quality of what we create.Perusing some of the day’s popular design portfolio networks provides ample evidence of our obsession with tools  tech. Dribbblers often comment to each other with questions about which software they used. Behance even has a built-in “Tools Used” tagging system that puts the production method front and center with the project description. In my own experience, in both the classroom and the studio, designers and design students are constantly asking one another how they created this, that, and the other visual effect.All this talk about the tools available might be causing us some problems. Instead of getting to the task at hand, that of creating, we might stop and ask ourselves questions like, “Should I learn Photoshop or Sketch? Or both?” We start to think that great design work can’t be created without the best tools. We become anxious and stressed about our tech stacks and toolkits, and instead of focusing on creating, we switch things up, derail work-in-progress, start over, and throw out hours’ worth of iterations. Rather than focusing on what’s in front of us, our minds wander to distant and unfamiliar alternatives, the promises of which blind us to our own experience. It’s 2015 and, seriously, just about anyone can create an exciting new design software… that turns out to be rather useless and flushes hours of time and gigabytes of data down the toilet. Even big dogs like Adobe are failing to deliver actual improvements with their newest tech.What if we looked at design and technology from a different vantage point? How might a design-centric perspective benefit us?Good design makes people’s lives better. Good design doesn’t care whether it’s made of pixels or dots, or what its file extension is. Good design uses technology to proliferate itself, and this has always been the case.The printing press didn’t pre-date the letterform. People created written language to communicate more easily, and the technology for printing evolved to suit that need. The camera was invented long before Photoshop, and Photoshop only came along to make good photography easier to produce. Digital printers are faster and more accurate that silkscreens, but neither can be trusted to make poorly designed print work look good.Keyboard shortcuts are a lot easier to learn than design principles. I’ve been at this design thing for long enough to say with confidence that it’s far easier to learn how to use a tool than it is to learn how to design something well. With that, I would urge any designer to focus not on the tools and technology that proliferate the work, but rather to focus on making the thing, and making it damn good.Designer at Barbershop I/OThoughts and stories from BDW, a 50 week graduate program dedicated to re:designing, re:imagining and re:working the digital world.

Design principles and standards, as they are known up to contemporary times, have been developed since Industrial Revolution, when hand-made low-scale production was replaced by mechanized large-scaled manufactures. The newly born industries urged for standardized models that could be easily reproduced and also be facilitate the line of production, which for the first time caused the final object to be split into smaller units to be produced in independent phases. The principle of By the end of 1910s, Bauhaus school and its founders intended to combine to those new guidelines the art and aesthetics that they considered to have gradually being lost by mass production.The legacy of the concepts and ideas that rose from Bauhaus was most influential for the years after its ending in 1933, since nearly the end of twentieth century. Their approach on how society and humans relate to technology has been used as strong guidelines not only for new product design, but also for the education of new designers. Therefore, creation of a new product has become an experimentation and problem solving question. However, the principles developed in Bauhaus were still based and emphasized on functionalism and materiality, aiming the ease of reproduction.Those principles acted as strong guidelines up to late twentieth century, when new science researches and discoveries about human’s brain function and emotional and behavioural responses have caused deep core changes on how human interaction with objects was understood. From that moment on, designers started taking into consideration aspects that were never thought before: In his 1998 book “The Design of Everyday Things”, Don Norman introduced a new controversial concept, which he called In “Emotional Design — Why We Love (Yet, objects can appropriate values that no designer can provide. Those values are subjective and particular to each user: they are the history behind the object, the meaning that each user grant to his object due to some event that took place related to that object. And those values may bear no direct relation to the beauty or functionality of the object. (Norman, 6)He classifies a design into three levels, according to the relations that an individual can have with an object:However, Norman states that due to emotions, it has been observed that attractive objects tend to work better than others. He argues that emotions act in a more primitive level than cognition, which makes them an important aspect to consider when designing the usability of an object.Following this concept, John Maeda in his book “Laws of Simplicity”, also explores how design can provide a more pleasant and joyful experience to user. He introduces ten laws to be considered by designers in order to simplify and make the experience easier.Likely to Norman, Maeda’s seventh law discusses how emotional behaviours provide richer experiences to individuals. He even suggests a new approach to design could be introduced: he changes the principle Analyzing the reasons why, in times of simplification of design, people would buy highly decorated accessories to highly sophisticated and minimal technological devices, and even why they have introduced the use of emoticons in electronic communication, Maeda concludes that these manifestations evolve the need of humans to express their emotions and bring some warmth to the coldness of technology. (Maeda, 65, 67)As he adds on his The addition of the emotional factor to design in the last decades has brought into light an aspect to product creation that would be considered an unacceptable behaviour under old school’s practice: the individuality and expectations of user, including the own designer.Marian Bantjes, Canadian graphic artist, shares on a By adopting this approach, Bantjes and other designers managed to cross the loose and malleable boundaries that separate design from art. In many graphic works, strict techniques and rules are being put aside in the sake of personal enjoyment, and, against to all expectations from old school, they are being easily welcome.Later on her lecture, Bantjes discusses what may have caused this effect on her popularity, considering exactly the emotional component as the differential:In light of this new regard to design, a connection to the concepts of performance, performitivity and performative art can be established. Richard Schechner, on the article “What is Performance?” defines that performances “mark identities, bend time, reshape and adorn the body, and tell stories. […] are “restored behaviours,” “twice-behaved behaviours,” performed actions that people train for and rehearse.” (Schechner, Richard. “What is Performance?”. In the case of art, performance meets its particularity on its “function, the circumstance of the event within society, the venue, and the behaviour expected of the players and spectators.” (Schechner, 33) As restored behaviours are the smallest component of an action, and they can be sorted, classified, and combined in many different ways, uniqueness is the most powerful characteristic of performance art, which do not depend “on its materiality solely but also on its interactivity.” (Schechner, 30)The connection with design comes exactly when it meets the reflexive and symbolic aspect of restored behaviours. Design makes use of those components, which need to be decoded either by those who create an object, either by those who interact with it. When the emotional component is added, design fits itself in the space defined by Schechner as “between” space.Considering the contribution of emotional component, and consequently, the uniqueness of the product and of each interaction the product evolves, it is possible to point out a cross border zone between art and design achieved by some designers/artists.The 2010 interactive installation The artist intention — provide him some privacy while working on his big glass window workshop — was counterbalanced by an installation of a curtain that was much smaller than the window width, and with the aid of a surveillance camera and a motorized trail, it followed the pedestrians as they passed.Roy, by setting up this installation, was searching for the innate human behaviour of curiosity, and the tendency individuals have to look for what is concealed. The performance of his work lives on the restored behaviour that was triggered by the moving curtain. In his own words to define his work:In 2009, a huge project named The project Adding pleasure to a boring and tiring activity drives out the attention of the action itself, and unblock users engagement. Norman states that “cognitive scientists now understand that emotion is a necessary part of life, affecting how you feel, how you behave, and how you think. Indeed, emotion makes you smart. […] Emotion is always passing judgments, presenting you with immediate information about the world: here is potential danger, there is potential comfort; this is nice, that bad. One of the ways by which emotions work is through neurochemicals that bathe particular brain centers and modify perception, decision making, and behavior. These neurochemicals change the parameters of thought.” (Norman, 19)designer, architect, ux seeker, images and cat lover, mother, self-taught coder, curious, non-stop mind, and now trying my best in writingHere’s where our fellows will share what is spinning on their minds!

The above linked report goes on to point to retiring seniors and the youth staying in school as major reasons for the dropping labor force participation rate.I’ve referred previously to the job market as “Job creators” were taught an important lesson after the Great Recession: It should be apparent in looking at productivity, that although growing, it appears to be growing more slowly. How can this be the case if more and more people aren’t working and more and more technology is? This question actually has its own name. It’s called the I believe the confusion rests in how we measure our productivity. Productivity is commonly calculated as GDP divided by total hours worked. When GDP grows or hours go down, productivity goes up. When GDP falls or hours go up, productivity goes down. So what’s going on right now? The answer is something somewhat nonsensical.What’s going on here is something those like We are indeed creating new jobs, but these jobs are not 1:1 replacements. When someone who graduated from a free high school loses a 40 hours per week manufacturing job with benefits they’ve worked for 20 years that paid $50,000 per year because technology has eliminated the need for a human to fill that role, and the only job they can find without taking out a second mortgage to go back to school is a 30 hours per week temp job without benefits in the service industry that pays $20,000 per year if they’re lucky, they’ve indeed gone from one job to another, but are they better off? Is the consumer economy better off with the notable hit to consumer spending power? Does the fact that robotic manufacturing allows this person to buy a dishwasher for $500 instead of $700 counteract the $30,000 loss in salary and security? Does the ability to purchase an iPhone 6 for the same price they paid for an iPhone 3 a few years ago make up for that loss in income either?Advancing technology is not being allowed to improve our lives to the degree it could, if we were to make other decisions as a society. Instead, we’re actively forcing ourselves to work a greater number of hours thanks to the effectiveness of the tools we created to require fewer hours. Does this outcome make any real sense? Is all this new and extra work in the labor market truly necessary or are we performing it because a job, however unnecessary is currently necessary to live?We’re also increasingly disengaged from all this new and extra When we invent work that doesn’t need to exist at all, productivity suffers. When we pay people less per hour, forcing them to work more total hours, productivity suffers. When we feel forced to do work thanks to the inability to decline it, productivity suffers. We also need to consider how much productivity would increase if the people who didn’t want their jobs were replaced by those who do. Right now there are people who really want specific jobs but can’t get them because they’re not available and instead performed by those who hate them. We could instead create the situation where all those who want specific jobs have them, and those who don’t want them, don’t have them.At the same time we’re fully voluntarily creating incredible world-changing value in our We all know how the saying goes about giving someone a fish and teaching someone to fish. We need to step back and look at the big picture. Our technology has reached the point that it is now partially pulling our economy down instead of fully propelling it forward. Technology is providing an increasing abundance of goods and services, while simultaneously preventing people from being able to purchase them. It’s also increasing the number of unemployed while increasing the hours of those left employed. It’s kind of a So what do we do?If technology has reached the point where hardware and software are together doing much of our work for us, then We need to make sure everyone starts earning a non-work related income so that everyone can be consumers in an economy increasingly populated by non-consuming non-human labor. By doing this, we will also be transforming all work into voluntary work, and see all the effects this makes possible from the economic growth of increased engagement to If we take that path, the basic income path, then we can automate even more labor away and grow the basic income even further as productivity reaches new heights.If we don’t take that path, and continue along the path we’re on, we’re going to continue reading increasingly worse news of the “new normal”, and be led to believe it’s actually normal.To quote Martin Wolf writing about Nothing about the way our economy works is “normal” or “natural”. It’s all a bunch of choices, and we can make different ones. We’re the ones making the rules, and it’s time for a new rule. Instead of all starting the month at zero dollars, we can all start at greater than zero. It’s a minor rule change, but New Orleans writer/blogger focused on the effects of poverty, inequality, and technological advancement on modern society. Moderator of /r/BasicIncome on RedditArticles discussing the concept of the universal basic income

Little did I know how much this technology would influence my career, I went from South Asian studies at university to going freelance doing consultancy for creative agencies, writing books, traveling the world from San Francisco to Sydney and anywhere in between delivering talks on what we all believed (and at the time certainly was) the most amazing cutting edge technology around.Fast-forward a decade, the situation is very different. For a variety of reasons - some technical, some political - Flash is now the ugly stepchild of web technology. I dont want to reopen that discussion but instead focus on a productive way forward for Adobe to take ownership of the situation.There is a lot of nuance that gets lost talking about Flash as a technology — there is the Flash Platform (which includes things like cross-compilation to native mobile apps using the Adobe Integrated Runtime), the Flash IDE and then the actual Flash Player.This is only part of the problem —Safari, Firefox and Chrome on desktop are all in the process of rolling out “click to play” features that prevent Flash content from running in the browser without user interaction.It is fashionable these last few years for web standards enthusiasts to minimize what Flash has really meant for the web. The introduction of cross-browser video support for example is just one feature where the Flash Player was an absolute catalyst for bringing multimedia to the web.That said, what I would like to bring up is what I think is a lack in Adobe’s leadership in what are severe issues for the remaining developer base and safeguarding a lot of historical Flash content on the web.Flash as a brand has seemingly become so toxic for the company it’s hard to even find any mention of it. For example, the The strategy here seems to be to ignore the problem until it goes away by no fault of their own. We saw other signs like Linux support dropped for the Flash Player, the Flash Player installer bundled with third party toolbars,…It is obvious in my opinion that Flash Player needs a path towards deprecation, freeze the roadmap and work on a secure, sandboxed cross-browser solution (much like what has happened with PPAPI in Chrome).There is a great ECMAScript based language in ActionScript —why not put more energy in evolving this and have it become either a service layer on the server-side or provide interop for products like PhoneGap and focus on the mobile side of things with app development.Most of all what Id like to see is Adobe take some ownership of the current situation. Flash was successful because it filled a clear void at the time, things have now definitively shifted away from desktop to mobile. It is time to make some important, pragmatic decisions and adapt to the current technology landscape.Googler. Web Developer. Geek.

The use of drug analogies in the conversation about people (especially young ones) and technology needs to stop.If anything, digital devices are a syringe. They are a delivery system. Syringes can be used to deliver a vaccination, or insulin or an illegal intravenous drug. Digital devices deliver the applications, the games and the information which we consume mentally.Like with food and the adage of ‘you are what you eat’, increasingly we are what we consume through digital devices. It is your choice what you consume, or what you let your kids consume.We need to educate ourselves about the inherent values and therefore impacts within our online activities and what we are delivering to our brains and to the brains of small humans.We need to think about our online activities as having inherent nutritional values, just like food, and consider the kinds of vitamins, minerals and calorie content of our digital habits. There are junk foods and there are superfoods within the online world. We need to be sensible with our ‘digital diets’, to avoid overdosing and the necessity for ‘digital detoxes’. The alternative is ‘Just like with diets and food nutrition we would benefit from considering how we can create digital lifestyles which support our whole wellbeing. There are occasions which we might indulge in some mental candy, we might need to use technology to relax and unwind — but when we use it to cope in a way which distracts us from dealing with the issue, problems arise.Using the word addiction in this conversation stigmatises technology users and the challenges facing parents and educators to effectively integrate technology into both leisure and learning in a balanced way that is tailored to the needs of individuals.Labelling a generation of kids as addicted to screens and stereotyping them invariably as rude, disrespectful, disconnected and mute is both mean and myopic.Ignoring the fact that adults are responsible for technology being in their hands is parochial. The issue here is that kids appear to enjoy and engage with technology more than their parents. Adults generally have forgotten how to be curious and playful and haven’t thought to ask why. The nuances of online worlds escape most ‘digital xenophobes’ (those who fear technology because they don’t understand it).What we need are forward thinking solutions, all of the qualities that the Technology addiction headlines are clickbait, designed to disempower parents and grandparents from exploring a deeper understanding of the nuances and complexities of our tech-saturated world. What we need to ask ourselves is, are you going to be a part of the problem of a part of the solution? - — — — — — — -Here’s a song to go with this blog: - — — — — — — -Im a Psychologist with expertise in the impacts of digital technology on society, behaviour  learning. I created #DigitalNutrition and live in Sydney.Tips, Hacks, Thoughts, and Things to Help You Get the Most out of Life

With the start of the Amcom Upstart program, I was asked if I would provide an insiders view of a technology accelerator program. I am a veteran of two previous technology accelerator programs and a first time founder. My name is Dr Felicity Millman. I am the founder Prior to developing Circadyn, I had worked in psychology for over ten years while I also completed a PhD in psychology and genetics. I was a university lecturer in psychology, had worked in private practice and held a position as the research psychologist for a specialist child and adolescent mental health service. I have researched an array of areas from neurodevelopmental disorders to animal immunogenetics and many weird and wonderful things in between. My career had focussed on understanding people and finding solutions to improve their lives in one way or another.In 2014 I decided I wanted a more practical way of sharing my knowledge with people. I wanted something more fulfilling and rewarding from my career and became interested in entrepreneurship. It was then I applied for and was accepted into the 2014 Perth chapter of Circadyn is a software solution which analyses information collected from wearable technology to provide an alert and dashboard system to helps individual employees to better manage their sleep and reduce their likelihood of an accident. It also enables employers to better plan and schedule for their workforce and to reduce the flow-on costs of fatigue in the workplace. Circadyn’s main target market is transport industry due to recent regulatory changes associated with fatigue management which require organisations to actively manage the fatigue of their employees.Circadyn was founded with a primary vision of promoting happy and balanced lives for all as I am a strong believer in maintaining a work life balance. Not just because it improves well-being but it also increases productivity. Therefore I figure I should share a little bit about me personally. On weekends I can generally be found out on the water, hunting for new dive spots or climbing the local quarries and sea-cliffs as I am an avid rock climber and scuba diver. I am also an active member in the Australian Obstacle Course Racing League. In 2014 I was ranked in the top 20 female athletes across Australia and ranked 2nd in Western Australia. Interestingly, Circadyn helps my sporting pursuits. It ensures I am not undertaking high risk sports if I am fatigued and ensures I am in my best form to race. If I am not out on adventures or working on Circadyn I tend to be reading or checking out the latest Marvel episodes.If you feel like asking about specific questions about my experience inside the accelerator, let me know and I will see if I can answer your questions.Founder of RestAlert using wearable tech for behaviour analytics. Psychologist, geneticist, technologist, statistician and adventure sport enthusiast.Curated pieces on the emerging ideas, opinions, questions, and interviews from within the startup industry. 💸

Quite often I find myself making decision or helping people with decision on whether new products should be hosted on subdomain or at sub-folder structure. (i.e If I have new product to launch, should I use Why is this a big deal? The fundamental conflict arises because each approach brings something in favor for Marketing Dept vs Technology Dept.From technology perspective, its a matter of operational isolation so that scalability issues can be managed easily and tech teams favor subdomain approach because:1.) If an application/microsite can be independently deployed (eg. wordpress instance) then we can keep it truly isolated by just pointing DNS record for a subdomain to separate the infrastructure.2.) This ensures that requests directly go to separate infrastructure without hitting any of shared servers, request routers or load balancer. 3.) If tech had to instead drive traffic to subfolder, it will need reverse proxy to be configured on shared infrastructure. Every request will first come to shared server and then get proxied to origin.4.) If there is traffic flood on this new product (or layer 7 ddos attack), In subfolder scheme, it will negatively impact proxy servers performance (which are serving other apps too). In subdomain approach, one could move the subdomain to separate infrastructure and isolate the scalability problem specific to that app.The SEO and Marketing folks seem to favor the subfolder approach because:1.) It is assumed that having content on the subfolder can leverage from main domain search ranking and also contribute the ranking back to main domain’s reputation.Th conflict is:* SEO Impact: No difference comparing subfolder vs subdomain (“They’re roughly equivalent” Quoted from Google Staff : * The argument on SEO always start with “My experience is that subfolder is better” but no data supporting that.* So, This brings us to the question, if technology folks should let go the feature of subdomain in favor of SEO benefits of subfolder? (which needs data driven proof)I reached out to few friends in the tech community to collect different perspectives on this :In conclusion, I think if your main domain doesn’t have a lot of SEO value that can be inherited for new product, than SEO isn’t a reason to use subfolders go with subdomains. If your primary domain has high authority then its worth carefully considering the value that might be gained for new product as well as the affect the new product might have on the future SEO ranking of the main domain. I like the rule of thumb, if the business  content context of the products are same then you might have them as sub-folders (eg. References:Conversation dedicated to the conflict: The art, science  business of making software. 

Every disruptive technology that I can think of originally served as a competitive advantage, but eventually became available for wider use. Whether you are talking about bronze or radar, technology has a history of moving from a siloed niche-market to mainstream use. In the world of digital marketing specifically, this age-old process continually repeats itself.The high-tech space has seen many examples of this trend towards democratization already. Oracle first popularized enterprise CRM software in the 1990s, but for the most part, access was limited to the largest businesses with the deepest pockets. The capabilities only really became widely available when Marc Benioff (who had spent 13 years at Oracle) founded Salesforce.com, which utilized the Internet to make his software more accessible, and popularized cloud computing and the platform-as-a-service model.Similarly, the computing framework for distributed data processing and storage were developed behind the scenes at companies like Google and Yahoo. These advanced systems handle incredible amounts of data, yet the framework for these computing methods were known only to those companies for years. Cue the formation of Cloudera by former employees of those companies, and Hortonworks. Today these companies develop and distribute the Hadoop framework — open-source software for the automatic handling and distribution of files, process jobs, and resources. The same capabilities that were developed privately, within the walls of the largest Internet companies, are now available for anyone with a laptop and an Internet connection.Today it’s not uncommon for a single consumer to own three or more digital devices between home and work. How does a modern marketer even begin to understand the lift in purchases from desktop computers driven by ads seen on smartphones or tablets? How can website engagements on tablets be tied to brand exposure from a video ad on a smart TV? Since When a marketer is able to recognize and reach a consumer across their digital devices, seamless, personalized user experiences, storytelling or sequential messaging, and accurate measurement and attribution become valuable tools for marketers. Today these capabilities are mostly limited to the marketers leveraging large platforms with logged in users, e.g.: Facebook and Google and, to a lesser extent, Yahoo and Twitter. However, the identity data that powers strong marketing efforts — anonymous or not — resides in these “walled-gardens” with limited data transparency. This is a shame. Marketers should have access to this data and they should be able to get smarter — that ability should not be limited to Facebook and Google. Therefore, the need for democratizing an identity solution has never been more pressing than it is today.As with the above examples of CRM systems and distributed processing frameworks, the large incumbents with an identity solution today have little incentive to make that available outside of their respective platforms, so it’s up to the market to deliver an alternative. That need will likely be filled by an independent company.Platforms like Yahoo and Twitter have logged in users in the low hundreds of millions, and though impressive, that scale is not nearly relevant enough to compete with Facebook or Google. They need to augment their reach with an identity solution outside of their own network, which will enable them to fill this gap. The same is true for software companies like Salesforce, Adobe, SAP, and Oracle who are building marketing stacks. These companies do not have comparable penetration of user data, but they certainly have an appetite for it.Algorithmic solutions for anonymized identity are not core competencies for any of the big incumbents. Yahoo, Twitter, Adobe, Oracle and the others can’t and won’t build this themselves, and will thus rely on the independent companies whose sole focus from inception has been solving for digital identity at scale. The “universal currency of anonymized digital identity” is out there, ready to make digital identity an accessible tool for every marketer.Do you agree with my take? Is anonymized digital identity ripe for democratization? What other technologies are ready to break their chains and be made widely accessible?Founder  CEO of Drawbridge. Solving the largest problem in digital media: cross-device identity.Go beyond devices. Say hello to people.™

Most The way that people donate is changing dramatically. Technology facilitates philanthropy, enabling services become more accessible to all. Technology is collapsing the physical barriers between charities and donors. There is disconnect between donors and recipients. $358B is donated, but even more is needed. Сharities are always feeling under enormous financial pressure. Donors pressure charities to be more efficient with their money. This Compass Family Services helps homeless families and families at imminent risk for homelessness to achieve housing stability, family well-being, and self-sufficiency. GOODdler - Impact with gift giving! We are helping charities and individuals to find support. Promoting philanthropy in the world.Meet the basic needs of underserved populations around the world

Peru is a place filled with balance, an even mix of native background and european influence. A combination of Quechua and Spanish language. Amazing natural beauty at such a high elevation that you can’t breathe. People who are genuinely friendly, but who believe strongly in their traditions.We travelled to Peru to work with a leadership institute, and learn about how technology might be integrated with the rest of the training. After round table discussions, dinners, observations, and some rough WIFI connections, we learned about how technology can live within an older world.Before leaving for the trip, I expected to be fully disconnected from home. I thought my iPhone would be mostly useless, and I wouldn’t talk to anyone until I was back at home in the bubble of San Francisco and in full service. It turns out I just had to follow the WIFI signs. The common room in our hostel had a great internet connection, although we could barely even send a text message in our room a few feet away. One of the tourist towns even had full connectivity around all of the main streets. But then we went to a day of final presentations, and there was no internet to be found. Luckily power point still requires nothing from the internet to run.The people we came in contact with had an interesting balance of opinions on technology. We were based in Cusco, but travelled to a few remote areas a couple hours outside the city. Cusco was filled with vendors, restaurants, and businesses serving a population of tourists constantly looking for WIFI and international accommodations. One of the tiny towns in the mountains had no computers or smart phones, and made a living off ancient techniques such as weaving fabric. Stepping into the pueblo felt like a trip back in time.Amongst the friendly eyes, and curiosity of outsiders, we also found there was a strong hold on tradition, and the importance of an older way of life. We learned that some of the older generation had a negative view of technology, not trusting how it might change their way of life. The topic of “good” and “bad” repercussions of the internet was brought up a few times during discussions, something that I haven’t heard spoken about since the early days of social media.When we told people about our interest in teaching technology to women in Peru, we were met with extreme interest from some, tentative pondering from others, and confusion from a few. Most of the younger women we talked with wanted technology training because it meant a professional future, and also access to a more global community. The understanding of technology ranged from girls who had rarely used a computer, to those who were majoring in computer systems at University.Most of the girls we worked with had smart phones, but not iPhones. They mostly used their phones to talk and text, with applications like WhatsApp for messaging, and Facebook for images. They only accessed the internet when connected to WIFI, not on a 4G connection while walking around. They seemed to want more applications, but didn’t have enough space on their phones to download much more than the basics.At one point, we were in the small mountain village where some of the girls live. They brought us into the tourist area, an open air area where there are flushing toilets with toilet paper, a large area to eat, and a stove with a chimney for ventilation (commodities not common in the rest of the town). For this town, modern stoves could be a form of technology.While in the tiny town on this particular visit, we were served Cuy for lunch, which is guinea pig. As a former vegetarian and general non-meat eater, this was hard to stomach. I watched the girls as they expertly ate the Cuy, a local delicacy they had enjoyed their entire lives. Easily biting through the leather-like skin, finding meat on the tiny animal. One of the mentors told us the first thing she taught the girls was the importance of finishing anything presented to you at a meal. She said it didn’t apply to us, since we were from abroad. The town had no public computers, and most likely no computers or phones in the houses either.One of the group homes we worked with had 2 laptops available to the girls. The girls didn’t have full freedom to the laptops. We found out that some of the them had been using the internet to find easy answers to their homework from school. When I heard this, it sounded like a quicker, easier, faster way to finish busywork and do something more worthwhile. To the directors of the programs, this meant the girls were cheating by using the internet. This distrust of the internet seemed to be a common theme.At one point, we sat around a table of girls, and let them play with one of our iPhones. We all talked about the different apps — Venmo, Spotify, Gmail, Twitter, Slack. They thought Slack was particularly interesting, the idea of messaging continuously within a group. After learning that we were designers and developers of some of the apps on our phones, they started asking a lot more questions about what we did professionally, starting to get more excited about what they could do with technology.Technology training is needed in the developing world. This doesn’t mean we need to create the next generation of internet and app obsessed teenagers (there is already plenty of that in the US). But it does mean that we can create jobs, opportunity, learning, and accessibility for a new type of technologist. Tradition can still take place, even when things are done in a new way.The technology gap between the tourists and the majority of locals was very noticeable. The question is how to grow a world where traditional values are maintained, while still taking advantage of the benefits that technology has to offer. Women have been known to help build up the communities around them when they are empowered. Technology is a way to connect with the world, learn, and most importantly find independence.Product design 

It’s been interesting watching the discussion develop around the future of work, and enterprise technologies in general. Some pretty long-standing themes, dating back to the early days of computer-mediated communication, continue to this day. Does technology really make us more productive? Does more information really make us more informed, or, even, more knowledgable? Does networking result in better, thicker, and more committed relationships and knowledge sharing? Does it eliminate friction, increase transparency, engender trust?I don’t believe we have answers to these questions. And to some degree it doesn’t matter — or at least it’s not up to us to drive. Consumer web and mobile experiences are as much a factor in the evolution of enterprise technology design as any set of early knowledge management principles. And for good reason: what works among people should work in the work place.So it’s been interesting to see what strikes me as a fundamental opposition between positions taken in this discussion. One emphasizes the person, individual, or worker, and argues for the simplification of work process and productivity by means of better technology. The other emphasizes, culture, relationships, communication, and the sharing that is required in order to get work done.In short, the act and performance of working, or the structural conditions of work.And it occurred to me today that a similar opposition can be obtained from sociology and perhaps applied as to this debate as a means of exposing a pretty clear distinction. The reference is game play, and related fields of game theory, ritual anthropology, game decision analysis, even interactional psychology (e.g. TA). It’s an opposition of player vs play; or of the individual’s performance of a game versus the rules, norms, and stucture governing the game.In more simple terms, the football player vs the game plays and strategy.And this, it seems to me, is playing out in the discussion around technology’s role in the future of work.Should technology support, extend, even enhance the individual (player’s) capabilities to perform? Or should it remove friction, inefficiency, and misunderstanding from the structure and organization of work and related activity (and communication)?I don’t know if I’m accurate in this observation, and even if I were I doubt that there needs to be an opposition here. But there is always a tendency in our commentary of any kind of structured activity (games, ceremonies, rituals, etc) to focus on the individual play vs the game dynamics; the player’s performance (it can be heroic!) vs the event.I think, obviously, this is because we are as sociologists say “self-reflexive.” We’re aware of what we do and the reasons for doing what we do; and to some degree the rules and expectations of the game are available to us even when we lose sight of them in the moment.This tells me that in either case, whether as an enhancement of the individual worker’s ability to work; or as an improvement of the structure and organization of work, both we, as people, and organizations, as structures, will be able to reflect on the changes introduced by technology. That if they improve our ability to get things done, we will become involved (and skilled) in those improvements. And if they improve the organization’s ability to facilitate work, organizations too will become invested in these outcomes.Which leaves me with a question to the audience. Assuming, for the sake of brevity, that this dualism is worth taking at face value and interesting enough to extend further: Specialist in UX and social interaction design at Deloitte Digital, SF. 

Views are my own.

In the last ~ten years I have changed my mobile phone a number of times, from Nokia 5110 to Palm Treo to Blackberry Curve to Android Droid X and finally settling down with an iPhone. Its amazing how technology has evolved from large mobile phones to small tiny Nokia phones and back to Designing for mobile is different and not just with regards to the shape and size. Because mobile devices are lighter and more portable (in some cases), we find it more convenient to use them. And because we use them so often, we feel a unique, emotional connection to them.One more thing I realized in the past few week is my transition from being a true Microsoft user to an everything Apple user in the past five or so years. I realize I have every single Apple product and everything is connected to the cloud. I am not talking about the wonderful (pun intended) ecosystem that Apple provides, but my motivation to move everything to Apple. And this does not end with just hardware; of course the transition to Mac OS X was smooth, I missed MS Office (IE was replaced with Chrome a while back). But in the past year, I have seen myself transitioned to iWork and when I think about this transition, I questioned myself why? Why did I move away from a software that I used for almost a decade.It struck me when I heard this from my customers complaining about a system that they have used for years. It baffled me that the same users who have used this system for so many years are now finding this system clunky. Why?Tracing back to my own transition, I realized how simple Gtalk, Gmail and Chrome browser were to start with. After getting my hands on my first tablet in 2010, I slowly transitioned to Apple mail and it didn’t take me a while to move to iWork when I used their 30 day trial version. The fact that I was not looking at too many things in my face made me feel better. Just like my iPhone (in my case) I could concentrate on a task that I was currently doing rather than find something in that massive ribbon on the top with icons that I found it difficult to understand at times.We have different attitude, behavior and priorities while using our gadgets. They come with us on the bus, walking down the street or watching TV. Users expect more contextual based actions then an al-a-carte menu system where they are expected to find an action they want to take. Because mobile devices have changed user expectations, it is extremely important to consider them is user studies since their influence is much larger then we can think of.Product guy, Usability specialist, Gadget freak, PhotographerRandom Rants about Product Design  Strategy (~User Experience)

Being born with itchy feet has led me to many corners of the world. We can learn so much about a culture from examining their education system.My teaching experiences in Cameroon and Cambodia, France and French Caribbean have shown me how education systems often reflect their society and therefore the level of possible development.This article is going to focus on how combining a number of elements result in a strong and effective compound.Education + Technology + Community = ACTIONIt is clear that students are more inspired, motivated and empowered when technology is involved.Given that education is a vehicle to success, access to technology needs to become a reality.With education dreams can become real, lives altered and development is an achievable notion.Today, groups of people who share the same vision are coming together. They are putting all of their efforts and knowledge to facilitate the access to educational information.E-learning startups focus on widening the network who receive information to improve their lives.A great example this isWith technology then powered by We are joining forces with a collective of startups to create the best education community in the world.A community is an integral part of change. A shared mentality, combining our strengths, our ideas and our tools. Change is hard alone but together we are unstoppable.We believe in the notion of a Information should remain free and accessible, regardless of race, gender, age or origin.Technology is an integral platform to achieving education accessibility world wide.Technology and education is the “dream team” to In the past, access to technology has been restricted.We are determined to turn this around. The need of constant internet connection is no longer a necessity to learn online.Education is the legacy we leave to the next generation, let’s be proud of what we can do.The world is full of possibility, it needs our kick start so development will naturally take its course.If you have useful information, tips, best practises that you want to distribute to new places, the community can help you deliver that information to right people, the people that really need it.Inspirational stories. Start reading, creating and building. If you want to write for Noosfeer Stories, shoot us an email: 

Three years ago I was sitting in bed, paralyzed. I foolishly overworked myself at the gym after a long absence and my back gave out. So much for listening to the instructions of the trainer that had no idea I wasn’t in the best shape or that I had previous back problems.After a lot of steroid shots in my spine, months of recovery and countless, painful, sleepless nights I finally realized that all this could’ve been easily avoided. If only my family physician knew that I was getting worse in between my yearly checkups. If only To top it off, I am now intolerant to the only pain killer that actually worked for me. At this point there is little I can do without a personalized drug that won’t put me in a coma before it eases my pain.So I started paying much more attention to my health and visited quite a few doctors. I wanted to make sure I was ok.You see, I also used to be morbidly obese. And we all know that’s very, very badVery few people can truly rely on self-motivation to get things done. Especially if it’s related to something that they have no idea about (like the state of their own health). If there is no personal benchmark, there is no way you can tell whether you’re well or not.In a world filled with sensors it’s quite astonishing that most people still have no accessible way of understanding and managing health. So I figured this may be a problem worth solving. I embarked on this journey with some of the best and brightest people I’ve ever had the honor of working with.I met Together we started working on what we believe is the future of healthcare— a platform that helps people make more sense of their health data, helps doctors take better care of their patients, and makes personalized treatments and medicine a reality.We all have a healthy disregard for the impossible and we won’t stop until we’ve achieved our goal of helping people live a healthier, happier, and much longer life. And we’d love you to join us.Thank you.Co-Founder and CEO of Healthcare that makes sense

The United States Hispanic population is not only the fastest growing minority group in the country, but it also holds an estimated purchasing power of $1.2 trillion. This rapidly expanding demographic is tech-savvy and eager for innovation. Yet many startups are still hesitant to channel their immediate marketing efforts towards this increasingly influential group of consumers. If your brand hasn’t yet considered targeting Hispanics with your marketing campaign, let the following insights convince you otherwise: it’s definitely worthwhile.The digital marketplace is already being influenced by the large purchasing power of Hispanics. As this demographic continues to grow, marketing to them becomes especially beneficial to businesses. Given that Spanish is already the third most common language on the Internet, making room in your marketing budget to target Hispanics can really pay off in the long run, particularly for technology startups.A recent report shows that Granted, it requires money, time and resources to launch a digital campaign in a second language, but even so it has never been easier for startups and online businesses to become bilingual and tap into the Hispanic marketplace. If your budget allows, bringing a native speaker onto your team is one of the most effective ways to generate brand-appropriate Spanish content. But even if your business is on a limited budget or just starting up, there are many ways you can develop a presence without springing for a new employee.The Internet is quickly breaking down the barriers of entering the Hispanic digital marketplace. Online translation services make it incredibly easy to find native Spanish speakers to translate for you or to give you feedback on your marketing content. Both The Spanish-speaking population is so influential across web and mobile devices that What’s more, in a In addition to their social media mogul behavior, Hispanic consumers are digitally-savvy and tend to adopt new technologies early. Developing a marketing strategy with Hispanics in mind can help to set your brand apart and grow your audience rapidly. By focusing your messaging on meaningful, two-way conversations designed to engage the Hispanic community, you can generate actual dialogue around your brand. These discussions will allow you to gain a greater understanding of this audience’s relationship with your brand, and thus a better grasp on the nature of their interest in your product or service.The growing population of Hispanic Internet users provides an opportunity to hone-in on potential new-adopters of your product or service who are not already loyal to the brand of a competitor. Because you are targeting new consumers, always remember to focus first on establishing their trust or you risk losing these new adopters as quickly as you gained them.Get started right away in reaching out and connecting with this consumer group so you can leverage the current technology adoption trends by Hispanics. Connecting with Hispanic consumers not only offers high technology engagement for your brand, but also access to an audience with a purchasing power that has never been stronger. A positive relationship with this audience will generate more positivity around your product or service and in turn strengthen all aspects of your brand — both in English and in Spanish.CEO  Co-founder at Wideo , Co-founder  Professor of Emprending at University of Buenos AiresThe Story of Latinas and Latinos in Business. These Are Our Innovations. These Are Our Businesses. This Is Our Story. #Emprender

Full disclosure: I am a woman.Still with me? Okay, good. Now for another bombshell: I work in the technology industry. Not just any technology industry, mind you: I’m talking I suppose you could define me under the trope-ish moniker of a “woman in tech.” I’d like to point out that I’m a lot of other things, too, just like all the other women and feminine-identified people who work in the technology sector: I’m a cat owner, a body builder, a car-radio diva, a writer, a friend, a daughter, a reality-TV addict, and many other things. But if you need to think of me as a “woman in tech” (or, God forbid, a “WIT”) to understand who I am and how I fit into this big, disruptive, techy world of ours, so be it.It’s no secret that the tech industry is overwhelmingly male, a very real problem that has gotten incredible media attention. My company jumped on the bandwagon, undertaking the noble task of tackling the WIT issue with the best of them. Like most Silicon Valley companies, about 70% of the people we employ are men. In our senior leadership positions, that percentage climbs to 85%. Within the past year or so, the company has begun an honorable push to hire more women, asking important questions about why women feel alienated in the technology industry, how companies can improve their relationships with their female employees, and why hiring women is important.Women have been speaking out on this issue for decades. Women, on average, still make 74 cents to every dollar men make in the same positions. Those numbers are even more dismal for women of color. Women with leadership skills are often termed “bossy” or “aggressive,” while men with the same skills are seen as dignified, accomplished, and leaderly. Fewer women than men with comparable skills are promoted to leadership positions, and women’s leadership contributions are more heavily scrutinized by other employees. Women who speak out about sexual assault in the workplace or their industries are subjected to demoralizing dismissal of their claims, at best, and threats of further sexual assault and even death, at worst (Hellooo, Gamergate!). American women are faced with real consequences if they decide to have children or raise families, with US law stipulating that companies only need to provide 12 weeks of unpaid (But a few years ago, the rhetoric around the entire WIT issue changed dramatically. In 2011, the Harvard Business Review published a study that indicated that teams that include more women are “smarter.” These teams solved problems more quickly and efficiently, and with better outcomes. This study catapulted more exploration into the ways women affect teams and, in turn, how they affect companies. Additional studies indicated that companies that had more women in leadership and C-level positions enjoyed higher returns on the stock market. In the end, as it so often does, the Bottom Line came to the forefront of the argument for why companies needed to hire and promote more women: Companies that employed more women and treated them equally to men made more money.Silicon Valley ate. It. Up. Suddenly, the WIT problem was no longer a nebulous issue of women’s rights and equality. The WIT problem could be Make no mistake: I’m a raging feminist. On one hand, I was delighted to see influential leaders in the industry promoting equal employment and opportunities for women. But when these discussions began taking hold, I felt a guilty unease about the whole business. The good, bra-burning feminist in me wanted desperately to be supportive of this new push. After all, However, as a woman in tech myself, suddenly I felt even Gone were the days when companies needed to tackle the difficult issue of WIT in terms of morality, human rights, and equality. All they needed to say was that women could increase their bottom lines, and that was justification enough to put the whole issue to bed. “It’s okay to hire more women now because we now know that we’ll win the rat race if we employ more of them!” everyone seemed to be saying.It seemed like a copout. I imagined a group of suited executives around a conference table with cigars and snifters of brandy, laughing, “Remember when we used to have to try to think of these women as actual This created a new, troubling double standard in the workplace: No one talked about employing men as a way to make more money (because men have been running the world for as long as most history books can remember). Men were employed because they were great at their jobs and had skills and important ideas. Women are great at their jobs and have skills and important ideas, too, but no one was talking about that, and it didn’t seem to matter. All that mattered was that having a higher quota of women on the payroll would increase a profit margin.Women have been fighting for decades, I mean, hey, I guess I’m not ungrateful. I love the free snacks and the paychecks and the Nerf guns as much as the next guy…or lady. But the WIT problem hasn’t been solved. Companies’ wallets may be fatter now, but their standards for equality are as low as ever. Sorry to break it to ya, but the WIT problem will only be solved when companies start treating us, women, truly as equals, not as money bags in heels.Writer in tech in San Francisco. Feminist. Cat parent. Only child. Employed millennial. Farm-to-metropolis transplant from the Midwest to the West Coast.

I was asked to comment on this article: Here is what I thought:From the article:“India’s tech ecosystem is still geared towards the relatively low-risk, transactional, revenue-focussed e-commerce businesses. High-quality startups in eve slightly different/ riskier businesses find better reception abroad, especially in the US, since the skill-sets required for evaluating or understanding those businesses are missing among investors within India,”This is very true. The ratio of high-on-tech-innovation startups to more-business-focussed startups is low. (Hitting the sweet spot in the middle is the best, but the assumption here is people start to attack the problem from one of the fronts).1. Tech products (and innovative tech products esp) take time to build. Unlike a simple payment gateway enabled website, they are not a 2–3 month job. Upon this is the added time cost of BD (which is a part of all B2B startups in India) . Given how short the runways of Indian startups are, its hard to manage.2. This causes a vicious cycle, where entrepreneurs stay away from high-tech and investors think Indians do not make high-tech products . Being co-founder of a technology based startup, I can vouch for the fact that investors would not consider your innovation genuine (for us it was to check are our results really as accurate and are we really using Deep Learning) unless they get a due diligence done. Its kind of assumed that people will not make high-tech / will copy-paste . They are often awe-struck after their due diligence to find out that an Indian startup has made state of the art technology. They may still choose to/ choose not to invest.3. Indians clients are harder to crack in tech. Lot of people have in-house tech teams (which have no idea of what they can/cannot do) , and unless they try to out-innovate you and fail, they will not understand that building your offering was hard. US tech teams will generally know what they can/cannot build. This IMO also comes from fact that people are not well informed about how hard making a technology platform can be. Any PM with an intern knowing scikit-learn basics for example can say, “Itni Machine Learning to hum bhi laga lenge” to your data science product. This is far from truth, they must have built it already if they could. Early adopters in US/Sgp would be better than this I guess. That said, it is not impossible to find early adopters in India too.4. Its not all the fault from the investors/consumers side. Indian entrepreneurs generally portray technology as an easy thing to achieve. I have encountered people who have never written a line of code trying to lecture me on how to train neural network over distributed systems (which is a hard problem Google is trying to solve) and why GPU approach is not scalable . Everyone’s tech platform has been hyped up by Indian Entrepreneurs so much that a startup genuinely working on technology will have to debate/discuss a lot. Ultimate reason is still the unawareness of market, which cannot differentiate noise and fact.5. There is just one way for a pure tech startup to thrive in India, that is to find a sweet spot between tech and business. An corollary is making a product for any of the money making sectors (Food tech/ E-Commerce etc). Every successful high-tech startup (Grey-Orange robotics, Mad Street Den, TargetingMantra ) has done this. But apart from that, if one wants to form a company like DeepMind, Metamind, Numenta , Indico (I am talking of all Data Science companies here because I am more aware about the domain) is hard to pull of in India. I am pretty sure some Indian product manager would reply “Ye Machine Learning to hum bhi laga lenge” to DeepMind’s BD guy (Just an example, not that DeepMind is coming to sell to India) .cofounder at 

Bud Light is releasing cans with new labels for a music festival and it might actually convince me to drink the watered down beer! This The new cans are all about amplifying the consumers’ experience. Although, it may just be a way to help people forget that the beer they are drinking doesn’t taste good. But If I were attending this music festival, I could be easily convinced to trade in my $8 craft beer for a $7 Bud Light solely for the Instagram-worthy can. And this may only be because I’m not a pop drinker, but I would choose a can with a pretty label over one with my name on it anyday!Advocate for all things Des Moines. Lover of black coffee, craft beer, and my crazy Shih Tzu puppy. Marketing Coordinator for 

Habit-forming technology. Yes, it is the technology behind forming a habit, and it is most commonplace in the consumer Internet where we all belong. Just take a look at your smartphone screen.It is based on the trigger-action-reward sequence that has its root back in Ivan Pavlov’s experiment. Pavlov’s dog (not the band, of course) helped the famous scientist develop his “conditional reflex” theory, showing that when a buzzer was sounded in subsequent time with food being presented to the dog in consecutive sequences, the dog would initially salivate when the food was presented. The dog would later come to associate the sound with the presentation of the food and salivate upon the presentation of that stimulus.Nowadays, the evolution of technology seems to have turned us all to Pavlov’s dogs. A Facebook notification, the sound of an incoming e-mail, the buzz of a twitter comment on a status we have just uploaded, urge us to reply, to correspond, to engage ourselves with our social media and a variety of digital products in an unprecedented scale. A Luddite would start preaching about the hazardous consequences of the advent of technology that strips us off our freedom, but a closer and less biased look will reveal that, habit, addiction and conditioned reflex seems to be an integral characteristic of the human nature.The clap of a thunder, the church bell that tolls, the whistle of a train, have all existed before our computer and smartphone screens, equally triggering feelings, reflexes and impulses.The conditioned reflex exists in our nature, just like habits and addictions. Their types vary, be it smoking, eating chocolate, having a glass of wine after dinner, counting the seconds until the traffic light turns green. Which of those is a habit and which an addiction?There is a simplified way to outline a main difference between the two:An addiction is a compulsive dependence on a behavior or substance and it’s always bad, in terms of hurting the one who has it and the addicted person therefore wanting to cease having it.A habit is an impulse to do a behavior with little or no conscious thought. It is not bad for the person who has it, but still it is not impossible that a habit might turn to addiction.The common ground is that both habit and addiction can coexist, and revolve around one person. Just like a product that intends to convince you it is tailor-made for you and you alone, with you being the bearer, the preacher, the evangelist of it, as if it were made by you, you being the center of what the product represents. This phenomenon has become commonplace in the social media and other technology products that are designed to fit into each and everyone’s mentality and character.For a long time, the methodology for designing habit-forming products was as follows:build the product, put it before the public, and watch it go viral or just be forgotten. However, lately, the teams behind such products have become more deliberate.Psychology and behavioral science along with a series of tools derived from human sciences have become the arsenal of designers. They offer a variety of methods — the outcome of centuries of observation and classification- that render the design of a habit-forming product an art and a science at the same time.Now the target is to lead users into a repetitive procedure, by triggering their action, rewarding it (or creating the promise of a reward) and making sure the reward will be perceived as an investment, triggering their next action, in a virtually endless loop. Nir Eyal, author of “Hooked: How to build habit-forming products”, describes the cycle as follows:The thorough study of human nature and of our fundamental reflexes opens a new window in the way products are designed, especially the ones that lie in the digital world. The goal is to turn the use and the interaction with, or via a product, to a habit.Nevertheless, as we mentioned before, a habit might turn into an addiction, and there is a fine line that needs not be crossed.Storyteller, CoFounder, CoMmunicator 

By Jack Dangermond, EsriArcGIS is an integrated Web GIS that is supported by services. These are abstracted in a geoinformation model that’s managed by the portal, and then accessible by a number of apps, which are the growing part of this system.As we continue to grow and expand the ArcGIS platform, our focus is on creating useful technology and supporting our users. In our work pursuing this goal, a number of themes have emerged.ArcGIS includes a Living Atlas of the World. It’s like a large living library of geographic information. Our intention and aspiration is to continue building out thematic information about every subject — basemaps, imagery, demographics, landscape data, etc. — so anyone can use it to access thousands of authoritative maps.In addition to these authoritative datasets, the atlas also includes millions of data maps that are being shared by our users. Tens of thousands of these maps are being shared every day, and more are being created each week. Accessing, viewing, and interacting with these is building a sharing, connected system of engagement between people around a common theme of geographic understanding.With respect to ArcGIS data management, we’ve been working on improving things like focused workflows and tools that improve your productivity — for example, 2D and 3D editing, improving workflows like the new task capability in ArcGIS Pro, and adding new tools to do conflation.In the background, we’ve been working on a new utility network model to scale out and deal with very, very large networks, like those used by utilities that have Smart Grid implementations with hundreds of millions of features. We’re also expanding support into new database areas including the big data platforms like SAP HANA, Hadoop, and Spark.Mapping and visualization is a huge area of work and is of interest to many people. We’re working on reinventing a new kind of 3D cartography to make it easier to tell stories with 3D maps. We’re also working on vector tiles, which are sort of like raster tiles, but with some interesting characteristics. Later this year we will release a brand new app called We’re very active in the 3D area and are working in the areas of 3D building models, Lidar analysis, rule-based models, thematic visualization, 3D data exploration, 3D analytics, and much more.Imagery is increasingly becoming a central part of what we’re working on and integrating into the ArcGIS platform. This means the ability to manage very large numbers of images, or do advanced analytics on a single image.We’ve added more than 100 image processing tools, and we’re working aggressively on implementing the new workflow templates. This fall, we’ll be introducing support for drones. The concept here is that you fly a drone for an area, you land it, and you take the information and then put it into the system and make the information immediately available.One new capability that is very interesting is the idea of Dynamic Image Processing Chains, which lets you perform dynamic image processing as you zoom. It scales to handle tens of thousands of images at the appropriate scale. This is a transformational idea.My favorite part of the ArcGIS platform, and why I originally got into GIS, is spatial analysis. Here we’re working in two areas: adding new tools to the desktop and adding tools in the online environment.In desktop, we’re adding one very important tool that I love: Bayesian regression. It allows us to predict things by regressing on its relationship with other layers. I can use Bayesian regression to predict where something will do better, or where something might happen. We’re also integrating ArcGIS with a number of advanced scientific programs like In the online environment, one big highlight is that we’ve improved geocoding so it’s 230 percent faster.GIS is becoming real-time — in terms of real-time connectedness to this system of engagement, but also with the ability to handle thousands of real-time events every second.Thousands of you are already implementing this technology, and our work here is to make it faster so that we can take this high velocity monitoring and send alerts when geoevents or geofencing observations set off alarms.For the last couple of years, we’ve been working on a project at Esri called the Big Data Project. It’s all about GeoAnalytics and visualization of massive amounts of data. It’s about creating new insights from very, very large data — hundreds of millions or even billions of observations.As a result of this project, the GeoAnalytics Extension to ArcGIS will be coming out next year. It will enormously speed up your ability to do computations on these big datasets.ArcGIS is fundamentally an open platform. We take this seriously because it ensures that your data and your systems are interoperable with other kinds of technologies. This is challenging because different organizations have different approaches, different philosophies, or different preferences for how they implement interoperability. We are working hard to support multiple pathways to ensure that our system is open.We support open standards, and we are active in a number of different organizations like the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) to drive and develop new standards.• We support open data formats so that different technologies can talk directly to each other.This approach of having multiple pathways is actually very successful, and the evidence of it is in the thousands of systems of complex heterogeneous natures that you’ve implemented that just work.Esri pursues mapping and spatial analysis with visionary products and services that define the science of GIS.Esri visions, strategic initiatives, and trending topics

My career went down the tubes when I was approaching my half century. The publishing and creative industries have not been decimated, since that’s a Roman phrase that means one in ten men were killed. What happened to the creative industries was more like a massacre. Let’s not be melodramatic, I didn’t die, but I was shocked, broke and one finger nail was definitely torn. I lost my career, my marriage and my home.I’m writing this from a big villa in the hills behind Malaga, southern Spain. If I lift up mine eyes from my laptop, I see my big pool at the edge of the terrace, with a massive panorama leading down to the Mediterranean in the distance. This is where I’ve been working for two weeks, with another week to go. The sun is shining, everyone else is in their office hutches and cubicles, and I’m going to have a swim before lunch and then work again this afternoon.I write that not to annoy you or to make you envious or any such emotion. What I want you to feel is thoughtful. Thoughts like ‘Could I do that?’ and ‘How does that work?’ Here’s how.In practical terms, I’m house-sitting for the sister of a mate so I’m actually doing her a favour. All I have to do is keep the pool clean, take care of the guard dogs and that’s it. Since she wanted a lift to the airport and to be picked up again, I have the use of her 4x4 for the whole time I’m here. But that’s not the big answer.The big answer boils down to one simple fact. After years of watching technology destroy my world and the world of many talented people I know, and after resisting technology in all its geekiness and techiness, I have learned to embrace technology. That’s it.It still doesn’t come naturally. When people talk about chip speed I still tend to think of deep-frying my laptop. I kept my old But to understand how to react to this creative destruction wrought by technology I didn’t need to read technology blogs or listen to IT gurus. I needed to read the Ancient Greeks. The And technology is helping me have a future. And indeed a present – I’ve just looked up and seen how the pool reflections are making beautiful moving patterns on the domed whitewashed ceiling above me in the outdoor lounge area.When I was younger, ‘working from home’ meant basically not working. Now it means what it says. More and more people are working remotely, part-time, consulting, job-sharing, whatever.There are Let’s get to basics. Let’s assume you can either make or already have the flexibility to work from home or anywhere. This might need a discussion with your boss or clients but the main point to make is this: short of physically being with them, which is something that happens less and less anyway, there will be no difference in work or accessibility as far as they’re concerned.One man I know used to commute for four hours a day, frequently being messed up by a grossly inefficient rail system on the way into and out of London. He now does the same job — the same job — from a villa in the South of Spain where he lives with the family he hardly used to see. A couple of times a month he has to catch a cheap and pretty efficient flight back to London for face-to-face meetings but otherwise he works in the sun.Since my work primarily involves writing and interviewing I need a laptop and a digital recorder and that’s largely it. A I also use You need self-discipline. Most people who work for themselves work longer hours than the employed, so this probably isn’t an issue for you. But it can be hard. In the last five days the weather has been unbelievably perfect – it’s October and a warm, sunny autumn here. And cloudy, cold and rainy at home in England. And for two of those five days I was working so hard against tough deadlines that I didn’t have time for a swim at any point. Tough, I know, and it’s good to feel your sympathy.I’m aware that to many of you I might just as well be getting excited about a fax machine or electric typewriter, but I’ll admit to being more blunt than cutting edge. The point is that this allows me to travel. The advantages are considerably more than simply that, but how to travel, where and what technologies can make all this easier and cheaper is the subject of the next post.So what are your barriers to doing this? Sure, one can be people. One of the hardest things for me is not seeing my son regularly (I’m divorced, naturally). But could friends or family not pop out if you were somewhere lovely? You might find your popularity increases!How could you make this happen? Maybe for a week, maybe more. What technology would you need to work somewhere else? Have a think. Then, next post, we’ll discuss how to travel, via such subjects as the New Rich, the Protestant work ethic and Photography by Writer, journalist, co-founder of Fellow HQ and reluctant convert to the world of digital media. My views are most definitely my own.Founded by two men on a simple mission: to try and make sense of living and working in this brave new digital world.

Poorly implemented technology often has the unfortunate side-effect of making you think it’s your fault. Ever tried to help an older relative who is afraid of breaking the computer by doing something wrong? And it’s not just the technically naive. Even if you consider yourself adept with technology, you’re probably punishing yourself quietly for something that’s not your fault.As means of public therapy — that’s why we blog, right? — and assuaging my own quiet self-disgust, I’m raising the rallying cry. It’s time to call out these smelly technologies. It’s not you, it’s them!It’s easy enough to build a program to do something once. That’s stage one.Stage two, doing it repeatedly, is harder. And stage three, to do it in a way that others can use easily, is to command respect and affection. As a user, it’s hard to distinguish between the second and third of these stages. That’s where we think it’s our fault, or that things are as good as they possibly could be.Millions of office workers labor every day on crappy in-house programs built to the second stage, but not the third. Ill thought-out procedures shape our everyday lives, and if we’re a business, the lives of our customers too.Now it’s time to vent. Join me in a virtual meeting of Technodullards Pseudonymous and admit what’s making you guilty.Of course it’s them, not me. But if enough of us believe we’re the ones at fault, then the mediocre becomes the norm.The next time I’m within growling range of a developer in a San Francisco coffee shop, I’ll tell them to go disrupt themselves.Incurably curious.

Writer from city to city

I like the “Blind Spot” metaphor as the missing piece to technology development very much.For me, a major blind spot is remote computing. We have so many options available, but there is always something missing. LogMeIn and Chrome Remote Desktop are easy to use, but the screen resolutions do not match the viewing device. Windows’ built-in remote desktop protocol doesn’t have that problem, but it is hard for novices to configure. Parallels Remote Desktop works well on iPads, but otherwise seems clunky. This kind of development strikes me as key for the “personal cloud,” so let’s get cracking!Creatively and efficiently solving problems through technology, collaboration, and experience. delcoursolutions.com/bio

A couple weeks ago, I attended an event regarding people who would like to network with day- to- day people and are or like to be involved in the Iran startup scene, Hamkekr. In Farsi, Hamfekr means someone who thinks the same way you do. I highly recommend for you to visit the Hamfekr website, Avatech hosted the Hamfekr that I attended. Avatech, During this Hamfekr, Techrasa, a website which covers and gives reports all about the Iranian ecosystem (I highly recommend for you to take a look at Overall the event was great. It showed that the people working in the Iran startup scene are not just working voraciously for money, but they care for the future of technology in their country. Hamfekr is another sign that the Iranian startup ecosystem is growing rapidly and will defiantly be more successful as time goes on.Student, looking at #world in #different perspective.Learn more about Iran’s Startup Ecosystem

Today as I ran I thought mainly about two recent interactions with customer service representatives. I love shopping online as much as the next girl, but sometimes I want to shop in a store around other people and be helped by a live person. I truly appreciate all of the people who work in sales and serve customers with a smile and a warm tone. These people do still exist … I encountered two friendly sales associates just the other day, as a matter of fact. But, the two recent bad experiences I had are irking me. I was speaking to my husband about this and he echoed my sentiment when he said that he finds that in his work, with his frequent need to contact customer service representatives, he finds that quite often he deals with people who seem bothered by his inquiries and rarely follow through on the request of a phone call back.So this got me thinking about technology and human interaction. Has technology ruined customer service? So many of us shop, or at the very least, pre-shop, online. Online shoppers get so many of their product questions answered through the stores’ websites and through online customer reviews. Has this online shopping made customer service obsolete? Are companies skimping on training their employees to greet customers and to ask them if they need help, and to do it without making the customer feel as if he is a bother? Could we even go so far as to say that the generation after us is lacking social skills because of excessive use of technology at a young age? Could it be that they never learned that they should make eye contact with others and greet others with a smile?Now, I’m not suggesting the generations after me are across the board inept in human interaction by any means. I just purchased a vehicle from a salesman much younger than me and my husband, and we agreed that he was warm, approachable, and informative, and the whole exchange was pleasant. Many people possess social skills and widely use technology. It is not as if the two are mutually exclusive. It just seems to me that less and less importance is being placed on human interaction in our society. This is truly a shame, as Interacting with other humans is a basic human need.Here is what I have decided based on all of these “running musings” about human interaction that I have explored here: I shall try my best to greet others with a warm kindness and to offer to help in any way I can. I truly believe that we all strive to do this already; however, I think that we get caught up in our own daily struggles and we let that affect how we treat others. I can be mindful of my tone and my approach with others. I can do this with students, teachers, parents, and administrators in my job as a high school librarian. I can do this with the parents with which I interact on my daughters’ soccer teams. I can do this with the children and adults with which I volunteer at church. I can do this with my husband, children, parents, and friends. I can be vigilant in my efforts. I can be better.Wife, mother, librarian, runner. Instagram: 

The purpose of this post is to get you thinking about the software tools and technology infrastructure in use at your company, and how they reflect your values and priorities to clients and employees. In follow-up posts I’ll dive into specific aspects of this. A couple that jump out at present are technology infrastructure as a tool for talent recruitment, and how you can leverage best-of-breed options with a modest budget and limited internal resources.Technology is increasingly the public face for many companies. First interactions between a potential customer and your business are usually facilitated by software these days. A visit to your website involves the software to manage its content, performance and reliability. Filling out a contact form or subscribing to your blog usually involves some type of mailing list or sales CRM software. Even calling your main business line and encountering an employee or department directory means software is involved. If the relationship (it definitely is one) with the potential customer continues you’ll need to share calendar invites (software), conduct calls from your smartphone (software) and email links (software) or PDFs of marketing and product info (made by software).Most of these represent opportunities for the customer to be disappointed, indifferent or impressed with how the interactions took place. Since software plays such a prevalent customer facing role, it stands to reason that in addition to contributing to your company’s productivity it might also convey your values and priorities in some way. Basically, it’s part of your brand.Let’s take a typical introductory interaction with a prospective customerAll of this happens before you’ve spoken a single word to one another, and represents opportunities for the prospective customer to be disappointed, indifferent or impressed with how the interactions took place. Did they have to click on three links to get to a high-priority piece of information? Does your website look good and perform well on both desktop and mobile? Is the text in your emails large enough to read easily on a phone? Can appointment invites be added to their calendars with just one or two clicks? Can customers conduct a deal with your company using a single login and requiring no special software on their end (e.g., PDF editing software)?If answering “no” to these types of questions seems trivial, then you might be missing something. Let’s look at it another way…Imagine you’re meeting with a prospective customer at a restaurant to tell her about your offerings and hopefully close a deal. You sit down and she asks to see some information about your services and customer successes relevant to her needs. Saying nothing, you hand her multiple manilla folders each containing several separate documents. The documents are printed with a small font-size, have virtually no visuals and lack headings and sub-headings for easy navigation. She awkwardly opens and peruses through each folder and document until she has gathered several items, which in aggregate answer her inquiry.Despite your worst efforts, she indeed needs what you offer and says she’d like to signup for your services. You hand her a form (nothing else), and say she needs to fill it in, laminate the pages and staple them. She happens to have a pen, needs to return to her office for the stapler and isn’t sure she even knows anyone with a laminator. Despite needing the services you claim to offer, every bone in her body is telling her that you don’t respect her time, are unlikely to provide friendly easily accessible customer service going forward and might embarrass her company if her own clients come in contact with you. She walks off leaving you with only the business card exchanged when she initially thought you might be a good option. You reward her for tolerating your crappy performance by using the address on the business card to mail her more irrelevant and impersonal documents that provide her with no tangible value until the end of time.Believe it or not, this isn’t as far-fetched as it may seem. The best companies are putting the onus on themselves to make information readily accessible, easily digestible and simple to act on. This means thoughtfully organizing information in multiple ways to reflect how various target customers view things. It also means making content more aesthetically pleasing, and finding opportunities to convert paragraphs into visuals (unfortunately I didn’t do the latter for this post…).Since software plays such a prevalent public facing role, it stands to reason that it may also convey your values and priorities every bit as much as your personal attire and quality of your business cards.Historically, there’s been a divide between the “tech” people and the “business” people in companies. And though unintended, very real battle lines were drawn. The cognitive gap between the two worlds was so large that even smart well-intentioned people on one side would struggle to truly internalize the needs and constraints of the other side. The business people were allowed to ask for software that performed a given task. The tech people needed to deliver software that could perform that task, and nothing more. Communication and expectations were literal and explicit with little room for intent or context. Software and technology were necessary to get things done, but weren’t thought of as capable, let alone responsible, for communicating a company’s values and priorities.Despite its ongoing existence, this no longer needs to be the case. Average consumers now use software and technology in their personal lives that is more beautiful, intuitive and effective than what’s in use at many of the most sophisticated companies in the world. The trend of offering well-designed and thoughtfully considered goods at low to mid-range prices is growing rapidly and can be seen everywhere from apparel to cars. Within technology you see this with hardware ranging from audio speakers to laptops. And now it’s creeping into the productivity and infrastructure software of small and large businesses at a rapid pace. Whether you like it or not, the software tools you choose are being judged by this new higher standard.The good news is that you don’t have to be a web designer to know that aesthetics and an intuitive interfaces are important. You also don’t need to be a designer or spend obscene amounts of money on one to make your digital interactions with clients more aesthetically pleasing and intuitive. The ever expanding selection of web-based software priced on a per-use/per-month basis, along with the pre-made themes and talent ecosystem around website management systems like WordPress mean that even the smallest business can put a savvy and attractive foot forward to their existing and prospective customers.The purpose of this post is really to get you thinking about the software tools and infrastructure you use at your company and how they reflect your values and priorities to clients and employees. I’ll write more later about what the options are and how they can be leveraged for your business even if you don’t have the resources to support in-house resources for IT and design.Product manager  customer experience obsessive. Passionate about social entrepreneurship. Want more kids developing tech  math skills in K-12 public schools.

Despite some of the expectations for We provide high quality news about Technology and other interesting fields. We also offer Services  Web Solutions for businesses, brands and individuals.

In no particular order…Product Manager at Intuit. Obsessive Learner. Audiobook Junkie.

Travels with technologyUber stories. A return to old school manners?P is in his late 60’s. He remembered me from many moons ago when I worked at Temple Works in Holbeck, Leeds. We got chatting about his experience at Uber and he said ‘they’ll eventually take over the world, they are already kicking the arses of black and white cabs’ I suggested it was private hire which were suffering and we discussed the fortunes of a firm he had left which had been my local firm, as they are losing staff and custom in a big way to Uber.Courtesy and ratings.I suggested that I’d received better service in Uber cars since switching, ‘I can rate you and you can rate me, I don’t want to be stranded in town late at night because you’d prefer someone with a better track record’ I suggested. P scoffed at the ratings. ‘I’ve already lost my near perfect score because somebody gave me a 1 out of 5, you can’t legislate for somebody leaving the house in a foul mood and taking it out on you. I’ll never get back up to near 5 now. Uber need to take these aberrations into account, mind you the highest rated Uber driver in the world is in Leeds, he’s got a 4.89 rating and regularly takes home a bonus of £250 or £150 a week’We discussed how it kept drivers on their toes, I am often asked if I’d like a bottle of water, drivers help me with bags, offer to charge my phone. P is old school and said this is how it should be anyway, regardless of star rating. ‘There’s no replacement for old fashioned courtesy’ he claims, ‘drivers have become lazy, they pop the boot open and expect people to fend for themselves, Uber is making good behaviour normal again, it will raise customer expectations and they’ll demand it from all drivers to up their game’.We touched upon how Uber had drawn drivers away from private hire firms who employed ‘young kids’ as operators, those that were only interested in a pay packet, and not the customer. In his day P had known operators who were vital to the community. Not so now. He said they didn’t care, lied and had favourite drivers who they preferanced. ‘Uber’s done away with all that, the customer can trust the technology and it’s between the driver and proximity to customer now, if I’m going to be late because traffic is terrible I can ring directly and the customer can make a decision to cancel the job if they like’Before I left the car P asked me to help him with his new Android device. He didn’t like the maps on Apple phone, and I could see that his role requires a confidence with smart technology that he’s trying to master.I’m fascinated by Uber, I’m not wholly in its thrall, as a disruptive force, as a connector, as something that changes behaviour. I’ll be recording snapshots of my Uber stories here as they occur.I know it’s hard to explain ‘my job’ but technology is key to my consultancy and my public and civic practice. So I’m fascinated by what I learn when I encounter tech that makes a difference to our lives, both individually and collectively. Who does it improve the life of, and who does it exclude? So I’ve decided to try and blog a bit about my encounters with it. Here’s my first draft and I expect Uber will feature quite a bitChief Officer of Play at Playful Anywhere CIC. Postal Address: Cabinet Office of Curiousity 

The sloth I’m talking about here is NOT the slow-moving critter that you may have seen in a zoo or suspended upside-down from a branch of a tree overhanging the Tortuguero Canal in Costa Rica, or another nature tour.I refer instead to the sloth that is a very pervasive human condition, found in Manhattan as well as Mumbai and Morocco, and from Boston to Berlin and Beijing.This sloth is a terrible affliction and is included in the medieval Christians’ list of Do you know anyone who squeezes toothpaste from the top or middle of the tube, rather than from the bottom? That is also an example of sloth. In my experience and informal, anecdotal interview data, that behavior is somewhat gender-related in couples living together: Before materials technology replaced the lead-tin alloy toothpaste tubes with all-plastic tubes (in the 1990s) this was an IRRITANT IN THE RELATIONSHIPS OF MANY COUPLES. The reason was that the metal tubes were NOT resilient. Dents from squeezing remained permanent; if they happened to occur at the top or in the middle of the tube, they often made it problematical to get further toothpaste out.Plastic ELIMINATED THAT IRRITANT; no matter where it is squeezed, the wall of the tube springs back!! Sloth is rescued because it no longer irritates the other person in the couple.My hypothesis is therefore that this irritant with the toothpaste may have been a(n) silent and unexamined factor in producing the HIGHER DIVORCE RATES in the US from 1945 to 1985. Sure, other factors were also at play, so my case cannot be airtight, but perhaps, at least suggestiveFor that 40-year period, the US divorce rate climbed from 35% to 50% per year (that is from 35 divorces for every 100 marriages to 50 divorces per 100 marriages per year.) This was the same period during which daily tooth-brushing became a widely-practiced habit in the US (brought back from Europe by returning World War II soldiers.) The tubes were not yet all-plastic.When the all plastic tubes took over (in the ‘90s), the divorce rate fell noticeably and has leveled off. Mere coincidence?RetiredPersonal essay, memoir, poetry, what’s going on in your community. The world from your view. I will not request stories — or edit them! — but am happy to include your piece. Give a shout out on twitter 

“If you’re not part of the solution, you’re part of the problem.”That catchphrase came to mind recently when the UN announced ­­that world leaders have committed to 17 global goals to achieve three important objectives: ending extreme poverty, fighting inequality and injustice and fixing climate change.Since the announcement of the Global Goals for Sustainable Development, leaders from the public and private sectors (including government officials, philanthropists, social entrepreneurs, academicians and business CEOs) have set out an ambitious course of action to solve the world’s toughest problems, ranging from health care to hunger to clean water.Regrettably, Silicon Valley and America’s leading technology companies are not yet full participants in this effort. So much more can be accomplished once American technology companies truly engage. Yes, a few tech companies such as Facebook and Google, are active and engaged, but far too few.That’s both a shame and a problem because information technology companies have precisely the human, capital and intellectual resources needed if the UN is going to achieve the Global Goals.Technology will not provide silver bullets for the world’s problems. But technology can shorten timelines, reduce costs and improve outcomes for almost all of the Global Goals:* Low-cost mobile laptops and smartphones already serve as platforms for innovation in finance, education and healthcare.* Cloud computing can bring low-cost computing capability to the most remote locations and allow global sharing of best practices and lessons learned.* Sensors and the Internet of Things provide unparalleled capacity for monitoring climate, rainfall, pollution and traffic and assisting in designing communities of the future.* Precision agriculture, combining sensors and data analysis, improves the efficiency and yield for large- and small-scale farming.* Data analytics enable a more timely understanding of market price, the onset or the outbreak of a disease, current and prospective traffic problems, or corruption in national, local or regional governments.These examples are just the tip of the iceberg. Technology advances when it is used to solve a specific problem. The revolutionary smartphone based payment system, MPESA, launched in Kenya in 2007 because there was a need for such a financial platform in Kenya. It’s been more than a success with in excess of 25% of Kenya’s gross domestic product flowing through it annually. According to industry reports, in 2014 there were more than 225 mobile money services operating across 89 countries. Technology companies working with innovators closest to the problems of the developing world will lead to numerous new and unforeseeable innovative solutions to pressing problems.Investment in technology innovations too often goes to solving the problems of the affluent. Billions of dollars are invested for applications or services that assist the world’s richest people find a cab or a vacation rental or a restaurant meal or expedite delivery of dry cleaning or laundry.What would happen if we transferred even 1% of that investment and energy to helping the billion people on the planet without adequate housing find a home or to help the 750 million people who don’t have access to safe water find clean drinking water or the 795 million malnourished people on the planet eat a nutritious meal every night? What would happen if we rallied our best minds and our most advanced technologies in support of the mission to move 1.2 billion people from extreme poverty over the next 15 years?These are hard tasks, but not impossible ones. As Hugh Evans, CEO of Global Citizens recently noted, during the past 30 years extreme poverty has more than halved from approximately 50% of the world’s population to approximately 20% of the world’s population today. With effort, investment and the technological tools available today that were inconceivable three decades ago, we can make a good run at lifting the remaining 20% of humanity out of poverty.Tech industry leaders like to revel in the disruptive impact of technology. What could be more satisfying than “disrupting poverty” or “disrupting hunger” or “disrupting climate change” or “disrupting the chronic under-education of girls and women?”Disruptive activities need not be charitable. There are fortunes to be made in finding new methods to forecast outbreaks of disease or to forestall climate change. Billions will be made rethinking agriculture in subsistence economies, in providing market information or advice to small and emerging businessmen and women across the planet, and in using technology to reduce energy and water consumption. Moreover, raising living standards increases the marketplace for tech and other companies. Raising a billion people from poverty means a billion potential new customers.But even if there were no fortunes to be made, U.S. tech companies should join in this global effort to improve lives for the poorest people on the planet because it’s simply the right thing to do. What could be a higher purpose or goal than saving lives or improving quality of life? Technology companies are essential partners in this effort because they can bring tools to the task that no one else can provide. Tech is, in fact, the one indispensable industry if this effort is to succeed.The opportunity is clear. Our technology companies and their leaders can help change the world for billions of people. And what could be better business or more satisfying than that? To paraphrase Aaron Sorkin’s line in the movie “The Social Network”: A billion dollars isn’t cool. What’s cool is lifting a billion people out of poverty.NYC/DC/Silicon Valley. Working to find ways to use technology, particularly mobile technologies, to solve the worlds toughest problems.

Ask many marketers today and they’ll tell you consumer attention is scarce. These marketers are attempting to engage on the move consumers with some doing a better job than others.Those who find success are usually the ones who are able to engage audiences in relevant ways based on interest and need. That makes sense, the more relevant the communication, the more likely it is to be entertained and acted upon.In practice, this sometimes comes down to consumer data. The more quality data a marketer has on a consumer, the more relevant it can be when engaging with them.Sometimes acting on consumer data can be helpful (even welcome). Other times it can be off-putting with some citing weirdness and privacy concerns.Still marketers have come a long way from the early days of Facebook and awkward targeting. Some consumers are now opting in to give data to brands in exchange for much improved experiences. Over half of consumers in a survey reported accepting that retailers collect information about their shopping habits.Here are a few examples of brands using consumer data for personalization:-Stacy Malden is a strategist in Lafayette Park, Detroit. Connect online at 

This weekend, I attended I was fortunate enough to attend the event as a guest of another competitor, and we made a Pebble safety application, This project meant a lot to both of us. At UCLA, my teammate and I were New Student Orientation Advisers, providing mentorship and counseling on coursework, mental health, safety, and expectations for incoming freshmen and transfer students. At our orientation sessions, we constantly emphasized the importance of safety: college is a new environment for many students, and it is our responsibility to let the students understand all the resources they have when it comes to safety. There are already many ways students can reach out for help: UCPD, CSOs, and various other campus security services offer immediate aid on a click of a call. With the already booming community of smartphone-owners and the recent growing community of smartwatch owners, however, new applications could be extremely helpful in simplifying ways to seek help.That’s where our app, SafeSteps, comes in.From the beginning, I felt something different about this project. For the first time, I was using all the nitty-gritty coding language I meticulously learned to create something that plays a role in solving social issues. I care about campus safety and mental health and student well-being and sense of community; at the same time, I am pursuing engineering because I wanted to learn about electronics and computer intelligence. For the longest time, I was A key theme in the hacker community is the idea of I guess what I’m trying to say is this: great ideas require resources and work to become concrete. Sometimes, it is difficult to find the components needed to make an idea a reality. Hackathons, however, provide these components for free, and more: workshops, mentors, and of course, food.That’s why I enjoy attending hackathons. There are no other environments where an individual is purely encouraged to just —If you are interested in checking out what a hackathon is all about, here is a list of events (organized at many different college campuses) in the next couple of months. See for yourself what I tried to illustrate in this post :)Third year CSE student @ UCLA

Our lives are typical in terms of how busy we’ve become as our kids grow up. I think this constant go-go-go that we’re on is somewhat created by us, the parents, with the hope that if our kids are busy with activities they are less likely to jump into bad ones. Another area is the hope that they’ll meet leaders and mentors that would otherwise not be there and create relationships with kids that become BFFs (yes I just used that acronym!). Finally, let’s not forget, parents do make friends too.A little bit about my family. My wife and I have 2 kids. Our daughter is 12 years old But even though these activities keep them crazy busy with recitals, games, competitions, tournaments, etc., they still have down time and are both attracted by technology. The constant challenge for us as parents is:For many parents, these devices have become portable babysitters. I’ve seen a ton of this at the various games and tournaments we’ve attended where the younger sibling of the child that’s involved in the activity is occupied with this magical device instead of supporting their older sister/brother or simply playing and making new buddies with other similarly aged kids at the event. We as parents have taken the easy road here — we should be considering what kind of long term values and qualities we are developing for our kids.This time spent on a device instead of being a kid will surely have an impact on them as they grow up. Don’t get me wrong, we embrace technology at home too (and sometimes allow it longer than we’d like) but there are times when the plug needs to be pulled and it can be a tough decision to do when you are tired from your long day and the last thing you want to hear is your child whining they can’t chat with their friends on chat! The end result is to spend more quality family instead of allowing this over consumption of technology.Technology use is habit forming. I worry about all of these games that force you into an “addict”. Aimed to protect children as they take advantage of technology’s vast resources, while limiting time wastage and eliminating explicit and dangerous content.

1. 2. Buy technology stocks 3. Positive earnings surprises occur when revenue and earnings growth are accelerating when 4. Most technology stocks ideas are product-cycle stories.5. New product cycles often lead to earnings surprises; product cycle transitions usually lead to earnings disappointments.6. Technology stocks also do well when 7. Value investors don’t make money in technology. There are few ‘cheap’ technology stocks.8. Don’t buy on relative P/E, P/B, P/R, particularly when estimates are falling (see Rules 1 and 2).9. Technology stocks performed poorly in the summer.10. Seasonal slowdowns cause secular concerns.11. 12. Reorganizations without restructuring charges usually lead to earnings disappointments within two quarters.13. One-quarter problems exist (but only if caused by supply constraints).14. Management usually appears weakest at the bottom of a product cycle.15. Insider selling doesn’t matter; management gets new stock options every year.16. Traditional mainframe and minicomputer companies 17. It is increasingly difficult to differentiate companies that sell microprocessor-based computers.18. 19. It is hard to forecast execution.20. Don’t forget Rule 1.finance professional | backpacker | learning to code | passionate about startups / tech | started my first venture at 13 | CFA | BC

The ‘Great Recession’, which began in 2008, wiped around 14 trillion dollars off the face of the financial world. This first major crash of the 21st Century destroyed national economies, companies, and the careers of literally millions of people; over eight million people lost their jobs in the US alone. I think it’s safe to say that 2008 was a pretty bad year for an awful lot of people.2014 has seen the banking sector return to near It all depends on what you were doing back in the heady days before the ‘great recession’. If you were working in marketing, PR, advertising, or any of the professional creative industries (music, TV, film, photography, writing, design etc), the chances are that if you ARE still in employment, you could well be earning a tenth of your previous income, and working 10 times harder — with far less job security.If youre not working, it is unlikely that youre going to be returning to your old job with the same pay grade anytime soon. And if you do, youll be freelance. With no benefits. I base these statements primarily on what I have learned speaking to a number of people in the creative industry, and I know former clients, colleagues and friends who worked in marketing departments, agencies, and among the vast extended world of the self-employed whose careers haven’t simply stalled, theyve stopped dead.For example: one executive creative director I know went from a six figure salary, benefits and a healthy expenses account, to earning less than 10k the year after being let go. I know others who have taken pay cuts, demotions, and more often involuntary rather than voluntary redundancy.What is most surprising is that this is not just the plight of the creatives aged over 50. Though that age group undeniably seems to be taking a significant hit, I am only too aware of people in their 40s, 30s, and even some in their 20s who have become the collateral damage of this new austere reality. Many people are finding it increasingly hard to find work in the creative industries — or at least any work theyll be paid for.There is certainly plenty of work out there if youre prepared to work for free. Some artists have shared witty email exchanges with agency creatives Yet, in some ways, ‘it was ever thus’. There have been countless tales of the struggles endured by famous artists, actors, musicians, photographers, directors and designers as they built their creative careers. Struggle was seen as a rite of passage; poverty a penance required in payment for eventual reward.Now it seems as though this rite of passage has to be endured by everyone wanting to work in the creative industries. It’s not just tough to become a working photographer these days; it’s next to impossible to become a photo assistant. But why? Was the recession really that bad that it damaged the entire industry? No it wasn’t.It’s not the earthquake beneath the ocean that causes the destruction, it’s the tsunami that results from it. When it comes to the creative industry, the ‘Great Recession’ was a distraction from a far more powerful force that was already gathering and waiting to sweep in and fill the void: In October of 2008 (the month in which the collapse of Lehman Brothers triggered the virtual economic collapse) Google was 10 years old, LinkedIn was five with 20 The smartphone revolution had barely begun: Apple had just Six years later and the digital revolution has gained enormous strength and mass: LinkedIn now has 332 As for hardware, Apple have just released the iPhone 6  6 Plus, BlackBerry’s are ‘retro’ (i.e: bordering on extinction), and Oh, and remember Google? Since 2008 they have expanded their services beyond search, Gmail, Android Apps and YouTube to include The explosive growth of internet technology over the last seven years has completely changed the working lives and entertainment choices of literally billions of people.This growth is in stark contrast to the declining health of traditional media: viewership of The battle lines have been drawn between the old world order and the digital usurpers. The fight is over the users, the technology and the money. It’s the media Game of Thrones, and it’s going to be bloody.All of this adds up to an effective double whammy for those working in the creative industries. First clients stopped spending because of the recession; now those same clients have shifted a larger proportion of their budget to digital media — which requires far more work on the part of the agencies, for a fraction of the fees, and a different set of skills from the creative workforce. Hence more layoffs, redundancies, and new (younger) cheaper hires.Many of the people who have been let go, or who have seen their incomes decline, feel completely adrift; cut off from an industry that they once understood, and in which they were respected, even revered. To summarize one former executive creative directors take on it: What makes it especially difficult for those who are suffering is that others seem to doing so well; there are clearly creatives and companies who are absolutely thriving. Why do some sink, and some swim?It is said that all animals, with the exception of humans (and apes) can swim if they have to. Humans have to be taught. They have to The greatest irony is that for so many who feel as though they are sinking, that they have become irrelevant, their salvation could lie in the very thing that put them into this situation in the first place: Digital technology has enabled us to communicate, collaborate and share content in ways that were almost unimaginable even in 2008. We can create our own company, write contracts, develop products and services, photograph them, market them, sell them and collect payment without ever leaving the internet. Who better to utilize the incredible power of digital technology and build a new company? Who better understands the need for the right messaging; is better equipped to create the right brand design; to write the right story and to market it to the world? The answer is obvious: those who work, or have worked, in the creative industries.We all face a common challenge in this brave new digital world: how do we evolve; how do we develop our careers in this new virtual landscape?For those of us working in the creative industries, the last thing we should try to do is to create a digital version of our analog selves. Instead, we must accept the undeniable truth that the creative world has changed irrevocably; embrace the positive possibilities that digital technology has to offer; focus on the innate creative skills we already have; and truly collaborate with those who have the skills we lack.Whether we sink or swim ultimately comes down to a simple choice: are we going to make the timely decision to learn all of the new skills necessary to help ourselves, and each other, rise to the surface and to swim home to the shore. Or not.It’s time to choose.Photography  Graphics by Creative director, photographer, writer and the founding partner Founded by two men on a simple mission: to try and make sense of living and working in this brave new digital world.

A young technology startup focused on developing seamless wearable tech devices.Join us as we explore the wonderful world of wearables. Each week we bring you a new project featuring the coolest, fashionable, useful and innovative wearables from around the world.

Last week I gave a presentation to a small public library in Wisconsin. I was giving my presentation on my Chromebook. A staff member asked me about the Chromebook, a device they had never seen, and that got me to reflect on the role public libraries played in helping Microsoft dominate the PC and productivity markets.Yes, I believe that public libraries, libraries of all types actually, contributed to Microsoft having the largest PC market share in the country. We also delivered to them the stranglehold on productivity software (Word, Excel, Power Point, etc…). Libraries didnt set out to do this intentionally, but we did it nevertheless.How did libraries contribute to Microsoft gaining the lion share of the operating system and productivity market? Libraries, trained a nation on Windows, Word, and Excel. We introduced millions of Americans to Windows. We answered their technical questions. We offered advice on which PCs to buy. We also offered thousands of classes (I wish we kept count) on how to use Word, Excel, Powerpoint, etc… Long before Apple even considered creating a retail store with its Genius Bar, libraries served the same role for Microsoft.How did this happen? That’s a great question. Microsoft both as a corporate strategy and through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation donated tens-of-millions of dollars worth of computers and software to libraries around the country. Through train-the-trainer programs, they taught those librarians how to use computers. They even helped libraries gain access to the Internet. I dont think Microsoft set out on this strategy to increase market share or maintain dominance. I actually think it was from an altruistic goal., but as a result of their close ties to libraries, they ended up with a Microsoft outlet in every community in the US.The libraries never agreed to become the Genius Bar for Microsoft. We never set out to become their sales force or their trainers. But we did. We did because we had access to their equipment. Microsoft trained us, often directly, on their products. We, in turn, taught our communities what we knew, and what we knew was Microsoft.Up until very recently, I cant even think of a public library that had Apple products. In 2012, patrons logged 340.5 million sessions on public computers and the vast majority of those sessions were on Windows machines. This has been true since libraries began making computers available to the public. What computers do you think those patrons go home and purchase?Microsoft will continue to dominate the productivity and operating system markets in the United States. While Apple has 265 retail outlets in the United States, Microsoft has 16,536 outlets because public libraries serve as their technology help desk, product consultant, and trainers in just about every community. Libraries to this very day teach introduction to Word or Excel classes. They answer millions of questions a year about technical support for PCs. They answer tens-of-thousands of question on which phone, PC, eReader, or tablet people should buy. There were 1.5 billion in-person visits to public libraries in 2012. Those visitors used 271,146 public computers (almost exclusively Windows machines) a whopping 340.5 million timesLibraries do support other products. We teach Google search strategies, Google Scholar and occasionally other products. We have classes on using iPads and iPhones (not really on Android products). I know that many libraries recommend Gmail, but that is growing difficult with Google’s two-step authentication. But libraries are pretty much Microsoft cheerleaders, and rightfully so, Microsoft supported us, and we support them back.Too many technology companies don’t recognize the importance of libraries. Libraries deliver markets because 1.5 billion people used libraries in 2012. Google, Apple and other technology companies are currently focusing their strategy on K-12 education markets. For example, just a few days ago, Google held a massive conference for teachers called Google and Apple will see increased market share as a result of this strategy. They may even foster lifelong loyalty through this strategy, but it pales in comparison to Microsoft’s strategy. The education strategy of Google and others will certainly not compete with Microsoft’s library-focused strategy. While Apple continues to open retail outlets, and Google focuses on education markets, libraries continue to teach Microsoft products, serve as Microsoft community technical supports, and recommend Microsoft products. Of course libraries support other products, but librarians cannot support what they dont know, haven’t used, and haven’t been trained on.Many of these technologies companies think that online support and marketing of their products is enough. However, any librarian can tell you that for many people, a little handholding and face-to-face interactions are needed. This is what public libraries offer.Why dont these technology companies recognize the role libraries play as community technology hubs? Why doesnt Google have a Library Technology Evangelist? What would that even look like?Libraries are natural fits for so many tech company growth strategies. If Google wants to expose the entire nation to Chromebooks, then who better than the local public library to help accomplish that? The vast majority of the more than 250,000 library computers do not need to full power of Windows. Give Chromebooks to libraries and a large percentage of the almost 350 million computer sessions could be on your platform. Of course Google would need to address a couple of things. PC reservation and print management would need to be tailored to public libraries, but that should be no problem.If Google wants millions of people to stop using Word and start using Google Docs, the public library is the natural partner to help accomplish that. Provide librarians with training, curriculum and support like the Education on Air, and we will happily teach our patrons how to use your products. If Google wants to add to the number of users using Gmail then let libraries authenticate users. Too many people are turned away from Gmail at the public library because they dont have a phone number to receive that all important Gmail authentication text.If Google wants millions of people to see, play with, and experience Android phones, tablets and wearables, then consider creating a nationwide road tour stopping at all the public libraries in the nation. Libraries have had a lot of success hosting technology petting zoos, but we simply cannot afford to purchase all this equipment. This would be a great program for libraries, and very successful for Google.Google has a big push to get kids to code. Libraries around the country are beginning to tackle this problem as well. From coding workshops, to multi-week programs, libraries are teaching Scratch, App Inventor, Python, and a slew of other coding techniques. While many organizations are funding nonprofits and startups, libraries have been actually teaching kids to code. Oh, and of course, if you are looking to improve women and minority participation, just look at the diverse populations that use libraries. There is a saying that goes something like this, “kids learn to read at school, but they learn to love to read at libraries”. I think the same will be true of coding, kids may learn to code at school, but they will never fall in love with coding at school — that will happen at the public library.Google has partnered with libraries before. Google Books project came into the major academic libraries of this country and copied all of our materials. Then, like a bad boyfriend, they dumped us after they got what they wanted. But reconciliation is possible. Both libraries and Google benefit from a stronger partnership. And the really winner in all of this is the patrons. Patrons are better served if libraries can support multiple operating systems, productivity software, and a variety of products.While Ive talked a lot about Google, this message doesnt just apply to Google. If Adobe wants people to know how to use Photoshop, partner with your public libraries. If Amazon wants to sell more Kindles, partner with your public library. If any organization wants to get to the hearts and minds of Americans, then look to your local public library. We are here, in the trenches, serving as the technology support of our communities and we would love some help and support.Anthony Molaro, Ph.D., Assistant Professor, Assistant Professor 

What Are you up to date with all of the brilliant, insane, and just plain Who doesn’t like candy? And what’s better than candy? Candy created from a Speaking of food, check out theThis is a creator’s dream. This miniature innovation has the ability to cut foam, 3D draw, burn and solder. The On a more serious note, 3D Printing advancements in the medical field have been fascinating and inspiring to watch a evolve. Check out a few of these stories.Meet 3D printing is also using MRI’s and CT scans to create an exact Incredibly, this printer can create What do you think? Is there anything you have seen that can be created with a 3D printer that I missed? What do you think will be next?-DGCEO  Entreprenuer || @thedavegrossmanFounder  CEO of Bringing you the best stories from the 3D printing industry.

Historically, startups (companies that grow at exponential scales) have been created by engineers be it Hewlett and Packard and Gordon Moore of Intel to the more recent Bill Gates of Microsoft, Larry and Sergey of Google and Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook. The major reason has been the role of technology in powering exponential growth, which The other Steve, Mr. Wozniack was a true engineering man, who lived and breathed electronics. However, the most iconic technology man of our generation has been Steve Jobs. Engineers will argue that he had very little to do with Apple’s initial growth, their days of being called a startup, he was just a salesman, a damn good one. However he was a lot more than that. He was the engineer who never fit the engineers’ mould. He was a designer, a perfectionist, an anomaly if you will.A startup co-founder is now required to write code and partake in engineering when there are limited resources (which Jobs did at Atari and later at Apple). She is now required to be an exemplary sales and marketing guru. She also needs to be an expert product manager who can prophecies features before users need them. She also needs to be a colossal design force in building a meticulously crafted product that users know how to use without the manual. A perfectionist, if you will.The likes of Brian Chesky of Airbnb, Gentry Underwood of Mailbox, Ben Silberman of Pinterest, Jack Dorsey of Twitter and Square and Kevin Systrom of Instagram are entrepreneurs who fit this new mould. They are multi talented people who are designers at heart. They have designed products that have truly shaped a decade of technology and startups. Products we use today have to be usable, functional and beautiful.This is also the mould that has been created for the modern designer in a startup. A product guy, who can dabble in technology, who understands business, sales and marketing. She understands the needs of every user and is perfection exemplified. Aesthetics, typography, color, style, usability, interaction design, information architecture and user research are all just implements that he would use to bring his vision to life. Most of these are words dreamed up to explain what a visionary driven by an idea would take for granted as natural instincts.Startups are always on the lookout for the “unicorn”. Somebody obsessed enough to bring amazement on the faces of users. Somebody who can champion features, give specifications that engineering understands, build experiences that are as simple as pizza and as beautiful as art.The relationship between technology and design has always been complex. Engineers want to build the most innovative, the most technologically superior solution. Designers want to build things that make users happy. In a world where patents are king, engineers win. When the end customer is a large organisation, when products need to clear check-marks not user studies, engineers outperform. However, in the democratic world of the app store where the best experience wins, well designed products eat the products with the most features for breakfast. Google historically has been an engineering led company, which is why Google was never able to compete on mobile apps, however it dominated the mobile operating system because it could sell directly to manufacturers.The flip side is that today, engineers at startups need to mould themselves to something different. They need to engineer great experiences. They are now as much designer as they are engineer. They come with a mathematical approach to solving problems but, at each step, empathize with users.The caveat to most of this is that well designed products that have the best usability, but don’t let the user do very much (examples that come to mind are Facebook’s Paper, the social network Path or Carousel by Dropbox), don’t do well either. The great designers separate themselves from the ordinary ones in 3 aspects:1) 2) 3) Today, designers can be great assets because they are uniquely suited to solve problems at different dimensions without losing sight of the big opportunity to deliver a feeling of wow to the user. Never in history have we been at cross roads, when it was possible to compete on experience and not just features.— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —Founder  CEO @ cubeit.ioYou can’t Drop everything in a Box

The usage of technology in education is becoming more and more common these days; in fact one of the tenets of modern education is the use of technology in class. The arrival of Internet access in classrooms, tablets and smart boards has made it easier for school administrations and teachers to integrate technology in class.The new tools and technology of Web 2.0, a participatory and collaborative Web, have broadened the horizons of education taking learning beyond the classroom, making it a much more fun and engaging exercise.Je pense, donc je suis...
Bibliophile and Francophile. Workaholic. Professeur de FLE We Seek Out the Important Stories in Higher Education (To submit, tweet your proposal to 

YouTube:Apple: new Apple TV now on sale for the general population Facebook: new notifications tab showing upcoming TV shows and movies playing Google: adding machine learning and AI to its search algorithm and it’s performing better than humans at understanding Snapchat: have 100 million 18–34 year old millennials logging in every day, representing the future UGC creation and social 1-second distribution channel of entertainment video content Twitter: today’s Q3 ’15 earnings report disappoints (320M actual MAUs vs 324M expected) BuzzFeed: 5 billion content views, shifting strategy away from sharing links inside social networks back to BF and instead uploading native content inside the social networks (full syndication) — SeanBuilding video products for humans Human Behavior, User Philosophy, Neuro-Emotion, and Artificial General Intelligence, for Entrepreneurs.

As an Instructional Technology Facilitator, I have the immense privilege of seeing my school from a pretty unique perspective. I taught Social Studies for five years, and I’ll be honest: my purview of the educational landscape rarely extended beyond my own classroom (and when it did, it only ever meaningfully grew to include my teaching team). Some days it was all I could do to keep my head above water. Others, I felt like I had conquered the world. Time, experience, and perspective help give clarity to what can sometimes feel like chaos. And while I’m far from finished with my professional journey, perhaps some of the things I’ve learned along the way might afford you a more favorable starting point.How you do this isn’t as consequential; send an email, make a phone call, write a hand-written note — Facebook’s old mantra was “Move fast and break things”. That’s pretty sexy, but not at the expense of getting it right. Their Surprising as it may seem coming from me, technology honestly It’s going to happen: the logins won’t work, the wifi will be spotty, the batteries won’t be charged. Don’t fall victim to being left without some sort of Social media is not evil. I repeat: social media is This work is some of the most difficult and important in the world. I believe that. It’s often thankless, frustrating, and exhausting, but don’t underestimate it’s place, or your own. You have the power to shape outcomes — to give kidsTechnology affords unprecedented opportunities for collaboration. You’re not here to save anybody. And while your value-add might be wrapped up in your new and fresh ideas, how you communicate them matters. Recognize the strengths in your colleagues and what they uniquely bring to this profession. Strive to learn something from every staff member at your school — even (perhaps especially) those you may not always agree with.Whether you use tools like One of those educational buzzwords you’re bound to hear — if you haven’t already — is Identity is such an important part of what it means to grow up. Kids are constantly engaging in introspection and self-interrogation, asking themselves who and what they are, who and what they want to be, and how they fit into their larger contexts. It’s a constant balancing act between how they see, and how they’re seen. Give them a space to explore that. Affirm it. Validate it. Education is a fascinatingly frustrating field. We’re charged with creating the kind of As long we’ve had public education, there have been people devoting their lives to it, Technology Facilitator  Educator at WCPSS and PLC Facilitator for Teach for America ENC. Painting fast and making mistakes.A community of lifelong learners,  we share a passion for our profession and a commitment to change. We believe teaching is an art, and it’s born from the love of learning.  Our philosophy is to teach them how to think and never what to think. Good teachers change lives.

As a driver of technical innovation for a software company, a huge part of my job depends on forecasting how current tech trends will play out, merge, dissipate, or expand. Here are some of my predictions what the world will look like in 2020.Startups like Uber, Airbnb, and TaskRabbit are the first wave of the sharing economy. Currently, we own most of the things we use, from our cell phones and computers to our appliances and tools.In the future, everything will be shared — yet also personalized. Imagine waking up and ordering a car in the make and model of your choice. The car drops you off at the office you’ve rented for the day, then zooms off to the next commuter. Oh, and that office? Not only has it been chosen to be optimally located for you and the coworkers you need to meet with, but it’s pre-loaded with your information and work preferences.The sharing system is far more efficient, as it enables resources to be active 24/7 rather than just when we’re personally using them. And because everything will be tailored to our needs and desires, we’ll still feel like what we’re using is “ours.”In the past, we relied solely on keyboards to control our devices. Then, speech recognition technology came along, and now has improved to the point where we don’t have to touch our gadgets if we don’t want to.The next logical progression is mind-controlled technology. Scientists have already developed In the future, I believe these brain-computer interfaces will be universal. Rather than say, “Hey, Siri,” you’ll Right now, there’s a lot of excitement about the Internet of Things. We’re connecting everything: your thermostat, your refrigerator, your car, your garage, your garden… That means lots of sensors and meters. We’ll be measuring, tracking, and analyzing even more than we already do.But in 10 years, as it matures, we’ll see this connected ecosystem simplify.Rather than gauging if the toilet has enough water, the soap bottle is full enough, and the lights are the perfect level, your smart bathroom can ask, “How was your visit?” You can say “Good,” or perhaps, “Bad — there wasn’t enough soap.” This eliminates the need for so much tracking and makes the experience feel more human. Ultimately, our devices will rely on our feedback just as much as data.Thanks to the relative ease of travel and the ubiquity of social and communication apps, we already live in a globalized world. The challenge is taking a global presence and adapting it to each region.In the future, everything will be “glocal”: a localized version of a global trend. A current example of this is playing out with Uber in India. Since Indian consumers tend to care more about getting to their destination for a good price, rather than “in style,” Uber launched a 10 years from now, companies will have to go glocal if they want to survive.Between new definitions of “yours” and “mine,” new ways to control our devices, new mechanisms for streamlining IoT, and new requirements for being local 

By Ed Lopez, Picatinny Arsenal Public AffairsAlthough the research project began with the objective to counter rockets, artillery and mortars, the project scope was expanded to include threats from unmanned aerial threats, sometime called drones, whose use has expanded rapidly.“Every country has them now, whether they are armed or not or what level of performance. This is a huge threat has been coming up on everybody. It has kind of almost sneaked up on people, and it’s almost more important than the counter-RAM threat.”Luciano is the project officer for the Enhanced Area Protection and Survivability, or EAPS, Army Technology Objective. The technology is being developed by the The UAS challenge has increased exponentially in the last decade as the world’s inventory of unmanned aircraft systems has grown from approximately 20 system types and 800 aircraft in 1999, to more than 200 system types and approximately 10,000 unmanned aircraft in 2010, said Nancy Elliott, a spokeswoman with the U.S. Army Fires Center of Excellence at Fort Sill, Oklahoma.Although a missile-based Counter Rocket, Artillery, and Mortar, or C-RAM, defense system has been selected as the technical approach for the Indirect Fire Protection Capability Increment 2 Intercept Program of Record, the gun alternative continued to mature as force-protection technologies for other potential applications.During the final testing Aug. 19, at Yuma Proving Ground, Arizona, engineers shot down two class 2 UASs using command guidance and command warhead detonation. The UAS was an Outlaw class aircraft, a product of Griffon Aerospace, and the intercept engagements occurred at over a kilometer range and about 1,500 meters.The first shoot-down at the kilometer range was a replication of the test performed April 22, in which the EAPS technology first successfully intercepted a loitering UAS. Some fire-control improvements were made after the April 22 tests, and were validated during the Aug. 19 testing. The second shoot down was executed at a 50 percent greater range and exceeded the EAPS demonstration objectives.The EAPS ARDEC gun alternative to area protection envisions a 50mm cannon to launch command guided interceptors. The system uses a precision tracking radar interferometer as a sensor, a fire control computer, and a radio frequency transmitter and receiver to launch the projectile into an engagement “basket.”The Picatinny area-protection system tracks both the incoming threat and interceptor, then computes an ideal trajectory correction for the interceptor to maximize probability of mission success. A thruster on the interceptor/projectile is used for course correction. The ground station uplinks the maneuver and detonation commands, while receiving downlinked assessment data.The interceptor takes the commands and computes the roll orientation and time to execute thruster and warhead detonation. The warhead has a tantalum-tungsten alloy liner to form forward propelled penetrators for defeat of C-RAM targets, and steel body fragments to counter unmanned aerial systems. C-RAM stands for counter rockets, artillery and mortars.The integrated test demonstrated a proof-of-principle that direct fire, command guided ammunition can intercept and negate aerial threats, Luciano said.Technologies from the EAPS gun alternative Army Technology Objective, or ATO, may potentially be used for both Army and Navy air defense systems, he added.The August testing concludes the EAPS Gun ATO. ARDEC now awaits counter-UAS requirements. Once requirements are generated and approved, the technologies developed under EAPS can be configured to a new design for a future tactical system.The EAPS fire-control radar interferometer was designed, fabricated, and operated by Technovative Applications in Brea, California. Radar interferometers use multiple receive antennas to enhance angular measurements for centimeter tracking accuracy.Design of the 50mm cartridge/interceptor was a collaborative effort between ARDEC engineers and Orbital ATK, Armament Systems Division in Plymouth, Minnesota. Interceptors were assembled by Orbital ATK and warheads by Aerojet Rocketdyne in Sacramento, California. The fire-control algorithm was a collaborative effort by the various subject matter experts but led and written by Propagation Research Associates, Inc., in Atlanta.The EAPS Integrated Product Team was led by ARDEC’s Munitions Systems and Technology Directorate at Picatinny Arsenal.A publication of science and technology news from U.S. Army RDECOM. We do the science, technology and engineering to make American Soldiers safe and strong!

My friend Patrick has a joke. Maybe you’ve heard it.It’s a great line, not least because it’s In the case of movies, this is probably a good thing. If a movie with a lot of technology becomes a vehicle for lots of deep ideas about technology, there’s not much room for the human stories that you need to make a movie work. Steven Spielberg’s There are not many films on any topic that pull off the trifecta of big ideas, great moviemaking, and deep human resonance, let alone manage to be about technology. For my purposes, there are three that matter: That’s right, not Right now (if you’re still reading) you’re thinking, Let’s start with the beginning. It’s my favorite part of The chip/ship is the Narcissus, Ripley’s coffin/life-buoy, Ishmael-style, which is going to connect the threads between this movie and the previous picture. But even here, we already have the basic premise of the movie: space is hostile to life; human life is particularly fragile; technology is humanity’s bulwark against death.What I love about It doesn’t matter that the tools are dumb. It doesn’t matter that working loading cargo, in the future as it is now, is a shitty job nobody wants. Those oversized pliers and that goddamn welding torch are going to save your life. And it won’t be the last time.So that’s humanity: flimsy, selfish, broken, scheming. Users of tools out of both necessity and depravity. (Lessons of Now, the aliens are certainly intelligent enough to use tools — they just don’t need them. Evolution has given them everything they need to kill just about anything they want to. They can gestate inside any host, taking on whatever physical characteristics of that host are needed to survive in a new environment. Their bodies make their armor, their secretions make their architecture. Technology is irrelevant. Their biology is so perfect that they The aliens are as biologically perfect as the humans are deficient. We hear this over and over again, mostly from the AIs who examine them. In Ash is a fascinating character, an even mix of 2001s H.A.L. and In The climactic scene in Think about it: all Ripley is really doing inside the exoskeleton is holding off the queen while she is opening the airlock. Even with the benefit of a robotic prosthesis, a human being can’t kill the alien: only space can. Ripley and the queen tumble head over head into the bottom of the airlock. Ripley luckily lands on top, but is also able to ditch her techno-suit and climb out of harm’s way. The alien queen can’t even break off from her egg sac as quickly as Ripley scrambles out of her suit; she’s too tied to her own biology to let any of it go, to treat it as something other than herself.In case this point is lost on you, More significantly, as Ripley is on the verge of escaping the airlock, the alien queen grabs her by the ankle. Improbably, Ripley holds herself on the ladder, with an enormous alien pulling her through a near-vacuum. What finally gives isn’t her body or the queen’s, but the object that mediates them: Ripley’s shoe.That’s what technology is. It’s the world of things, some impossibly stupid, some smarter than we are, we have assembled around ourselves to cover over our fundamental weaknesses as a species. The strength we have, the advantage this gives us, is our ability to stand apart from the things we’ve made: to use them and set them aside; to make them prosthetic extensions of ourselves and to let them go.Does that make us assholes who “screw each other over for a percentage”? It absolutely does. But it’s also a form of strength. Our humanity is capacious enough to extend to other beings (including those we have made with our own hands). We also have perspective enough to nuke the things we’ve made from orbit when it’s necessary to save lives. We are craven beings, but that’s not all we are. Even an orphan, a marine, an android, and a badass warrant officer turned surrogate mom can become a kind of family.Writer/editor for The Message. Reporter, redhead, recovering academic. I work with words. Everything changes. Dont be afraid.A Pandaemonium Revolver Collection. Season 2 stars 

Since then, screens have continued to shrink. We’ve moved from desktop, to laptop, to smartphone, to iWatch, to GoogleGlass, to — well —anything: We’re addicted to our screens.But while creating and consuming information in 2D, we forgot about space. We forgot that information exists across systems, not just within them. And because we are so addicted to what happens inside screens, we forgot how to be human.We’re discovering that information exist across systems and not just within them. New interfaces are increasingly designed with human habits in mind. Visually, we’re looking to natural surfaces and elements, which further communicate and respond to our human nature.When we can design across systems, devices will evolve or disappear. We will not stop consuming content, rather consume it in a way that suits human behavior, not the other way around.Future interfaces deliver content in more meaningful, relevant ways. Content can stimulate all of our senses and be delivered at contextually relevant times.As depicted in As we increasingly discover that we are no longer constrained to a screen or device, there are new possibilities for interaction with content and our environment. The car offers a unique case for interface design. Here, we should again seek inspiration from human senses, using them compliment the driving experience — or rather — free us to concentrate on driving. Using Touch is increasingly exciting in interaction design and the future interface, where Not only should the interface be part of our existing environment, the content should react or be generated by our environment. Welcome to contextual content.Delivering content which is relevant to your context is what we’re building at So say you’ve just heard a news story relevant to your location and in the morning, when you’re on the way to work. We will then bridge that to your music, streamed from iTunes, Soundcloud or WiMP, because you’re on the move. In cases where you are more likely to be relaxing or news is of a different mood, the amount of music and other content is adjusted to suit your context. Systems are living and grow with our input. Our feedback makes them grow and become more intelligent.As they expand, we can seek inspiration from the natural work in the form of natural surfaces and materials. The Nature already has design figured out. User experience in this time of information flow are considered in the documentary Let’s think of content and information as a fluid, living system, which is moving with us during our everyday lives. Let’s deliver and provide access to that stream, in an intelligent, relevant way, which is in tune with human behavior. Let’s rethink interfaces as our world, rather than devices or trapped within an exiting element.Special thanks to Obsessive visual communicator. Co-Founder of Making technology human

The nurses and doctors summoned to the hospital room of 16-year-old Pablo Garcia early on the morning of July 27, 2013, knew something was terribly wrong. Just past midnight, Pablo had complained of numbness and tingling all over his body. Two hours later, the tingling had grown worse.Although Pablo had a dangerous illness—a rare genetic disease called NEMO syndrome that leads to a lifetime of frequent infections and bowel inflammation—his admission to the University of California, San Francisco Medical Center’s Benioff Children’s Hospital had been for a routine colonoscopy, to evaluate a polyp and an area of intestinal narrowing.At 9 o’clock that night, Pablo took all his evening medications, including steroids to tamp down his dysfunctional immune system and antibiotics to stave off infections. When he started complaining of the tingling, Brooke Levitt, his nurse for the night, wondered whether his symptoms had something to do with GoLYTELY, the nasty bowel-cleansing solution he had been gulping down all evening to prepare for the procedure. Or perhaps he was reacting to the antinausea pills he had taken to keep the GoLYTELY down.Levitt’s supervising nurse was stumped, too, so they summoned the chief resident in pediatrics, who was on call that nightAt first, he was perplexed. But then he noticed something that stopped him cold. Six hours earlier, Levitt had given the patient not one Septra pill—a tried-and-true antibiotic used principally for urinary and skin infections — but 38½ of them.Levitt recalls that moment as the worst of her life. “Wait, look at this Septra dose,” the resident said to her. “This is a huge dose. Oh my God, did you “Oh my God,” she said. “I did.”The doctor picked up the phone and called San Francisco’s poison control center. No one at the center had ever heard of an accidental overdose this large—for Septra or any other antibiotic, for that matter—and nothing close had ever been reported in the medical literature. The toxicology expert there told the panicked clinicians that there wasn’t much they could do other than monitor the patient closely.As a precaution, the hospital’s rapid response team was summoned to the room. Pablo’s mother, Blanca, who had been with her younger son, hospitalized one floor up at UCSF for a severe skin infection (he, too, suffers from NEMO syndrome), began a vigil by Pablo’s bedside. “I phoned my sister, and we prayed together,” she later recalled.At 5:32 a.m., Brooke Levitt heard a scream coming from Pablo’s room. It was Blanca Garcia. A few seconds earlier, her son had sat bolt upright in bed, yelled out “Mom!” then flopped backward. Levitt sprinted to the room, and when she got there, Pablo’s head was snapping back and forth, teeth clenched, back arched, extremities thrashing. He was having a grand mal seizure. Moments later, just as the Code Blue team arrived, the teenager stopped breathing.“I thought, what if I killed him?” Levitt told me months later, wiping away tears. “If he had a seizure, I’m wondering if that’s going to be the end of it. . . I’m trying to hold it together, but I’m in shock the whole time. I just felt immensely guilty.”The night that Pablo Garcia was given a 39-fold overdose of a routine antibiotic offers a cautionary tale that cannot be ignored.To appreciate how one of the nation’s best hospitals—Pablo Garcia had been taking one double-strength Septra tablet twice a day at home to prevent his frequent skin infections. In the old paper-based medication ordering system, the admitting doctor would have written “Septra 1 ds bid” (using the Latin abbreviation for “twice a day”) in the “Doctors’ Orders” section of a paper chart, a stack of sheets contained within a plastic three-ring binder.The physician would have turned a colored wheel on the side of the binder to green, signaling to the ward clerk that there was an order to be “taken off.” The clerk would then have faxed the order sheet to the pharmacy, where a pharmacist would have read it, signified his approval by initialing the page, and handed the copy to a technician, who would have grabbed a big bottle of Septra pills from a shelf. The tech would then have poured out the pill, or perhaps a few days’ worth of pills, and put them in a bag or cup, which would have then been delivered to the patient’s floor by a runner or a pneumatic tube system.Once the pills arrived on the floor, at the appropriate time the patient’s nurse would have read the order (manually transcribed from the doctor’s order sheet to the nurse’s Medication Administration Record) and entered the teenager’s room pushing a wheeled cart similar to the ones used by airline flight attendants. After opening the patient’s drawer in the cart, the nurse would have removed the medication, and others due to be given at the same time, watched the patient take the pill, and placed her signature next to the time and dose on her record.Believe it or not, I’ve shortened this description — time and motion studies have identified as many as 50 steps between the moment the doctor wrote the order and the moment the nurse finally administered the medication. But even in simplified form, you can see why the old system was hugely error-prone. A Those of us who worked in this Rube Goldberg system — and witnessed the harms it caused — anxiously awaited the arrival of computers to plug its leaks. Computerized ordering would make a doctor’s handwriting as irrelevant as scratches on a record album. Computerized decision support would alert the doctor or pharmacist that the patient was allergic to the medication being ordered, or that two medications might interact dangerously. A pharmacy robot could ensure that the right medication was pulled off the shelf, and that the dose was measured with a jeweler’s precision. And a bar-coding system would render the final leg in this relay race flawless, since it would signal the nurse if she had grabbed the wrong medication or was in the wrong patient’s room.Of course, it was natural for doctors, nurses and pharmacists to expect that, once computers entered our complex, chaotic and often dangerous world, they would make things better. After all, in our off-duty lives we are so thoroughly used to taking out our iPhones, downloading an app, and off we go.Though computers can and do improve patient safety in many ways, the case of Pablo Garcia vividly illustrates that, even in one of the world’s best hospitals, filled with well-trained, careful and caring doctors, nurses and pharmacists, technology can cause breathtaking errors.This one began when a young physician went to an electronic health record and set a process in motion that never could have happened in the age of paper.At around noon on a cool July day in San Francisco, Jenny Lucca, a pediatrics resident at UCSF, began the process of admitting Pablo Garcia, whose rare genetic disease had led to bouts of gastrointestinal bleeding and abdominal pain. He needed further evaluation with an elective colonoscopy, and this was a scheduled admission to perform the test and act on its results.After speaking to Pablo and his mother and examining the young patient, Lucca clicked into the physicians’ orders section in the electronic health record. Pablo was on about 15 different medications. Lucca ordered his usual immunosuppressive pills, the liquid bowel-cleansing prep for the colonoscopy (the famously vile GoLYTELY) and his monthly infusion of immunoglobulins.Then she came to the Septra, an antibiotic that the teenager had been taking for years to prevent recurrent skin and lung infections. The usual dose of Septra for all but the smallest children is one double-strength pill twice daily, and that is what Pablo was taking at home.In the precomputer days, of course, Lucca would have written simply to continue the Septra, twice daily, on the physician’s order sheet.But UCSF Medical Center, where I work as a physician, had not relied on paper for years. It had been over a decade since doctors and nurses wrote their daily notes on paper, and all of the orders had been electronic for nearly two years. Lucca, as a young physician, had never experienced a medical profession built on a backbone of paper documentation. She was of a generation of digital natives, for whom the use of the computer was natural and expected. After arriving in San Francisco, Lucca took the required 10 hours of computer training, and UCSF’s system, built by Epic of Verona, Wisconsin—the same one she had used in medical school — made the learning curve far less steep than it might have been.The medical center installed its first hospital-wide computer system in 2000. We switched to Epic, the market leader, in 2012 after an unhappy decade with General Electric’s problem-ridden EHR system. Our implementation of Epic, like all such implementations, had its share of hiccups. Some departments didn’t send out bills for weeks, some medications and lab tests were overlooked, and a few patients fell off the hospital’s radar screen for brief periods. Like new homeowners, the IT department had a “punch list” of hundreds of items to be fixed or modified, and they spent much of the first year after implementation methodically going through it, checking off items.But now, on the date of Pablo Garcia’s admission, 13 months after UCSF’s Epic installation, the system was running smoothly. And there was good evidence that it was meeting its goals: doctors’ and nurses’ notes were now legible; thousands of medication errors had been intercepted by the bar-coding system; and computerized checklists guided the clinicians through some key safety practices like identifying the correct surgical site before the first incision. Moreover, about 50,000 patients had signed up to access a new electronic portal called MyChart, which allowed them to receive results of lab tests and x-rays, schedule appointments, refill their medications, and e-mail their physicians. Although there were grumbles here and there, the general feeling was that the electronic health record was making patient care safer and better.Yet a series of dangers lurked beneath the placid surface. Installing a system like Epic is not like installing an operating system on your laptop, where you just “Accept the Terms,” reboot the machine and off you go. Instead, while the electronic health record provides the scaffolding, there are hundreds of decisions that each hospital needs to make, many of them related to electronic prescribing.For example, should there be maximum dose limits set in the system, so that doses several times higher than the published maximum are grayed out? UCSF decided not to set such limits. The reasoning at the time was that, in a teaching hospital with lots of patients with rare diseases, many of them on research protocols, such “overdoses” would usually be okay. A system with hundreds of “hard stops” would lead to many angry phone calls from frustrated doctors to pharmacists, demanding that they override the block.When it came to pediatric patients, a second set of decisions had to be made concerning weight-based dosing. Since pediatric patients can range from a preemie weighing a couple of pounds to a morbidly obese adolescent, many pediatric medications are dosed based on weight, usually expressed in milligrams (of a medication) per kilogram (of body weight)(mg/kg). The committee overseeing our Epic implementation decided to require weight-based dosing for all children under 40 kilograms (about 88 pounds).Another choice involved the translation of weight-based doses into pills. What if the computer calculated that a dose should be 120 mg (based on the child’s weight), but the only available pill was 100 mg? The decision: if the available medication was more than 5 percent off the calculated “correct” dose, then the pharmacist would contact the doctor to be sure she endorsed that conversion. After all, there might be cases in which a 10 or 20 percent disparity would be clinically meaningful and the doctor might rethink the order.The weight-based dosing policy forced Lucca to order Pablo Garcia’s medication in milligrams per kilogram, since the youngster weighed less than 40 kilograms (38.6 to be exact, or about 85 pounds). When she typed “Septra” into Epic’s order entry module, she was prompted to select one of two dose choices, and she correctly chose the larger (“double-strength”) one, which contains 5 mg/kg of trimethoprim, one of the two active ingredients in Septra.Because Pablo weighed 38.6 kilogram, the computer multiplied this weight by the 5 mg/kg and determined that the dose should be 193 mg.Of course, there is no 193 mg Septra pill; the nearest tablet size is the 160 mg double-strength Septra pill. The computer recommended that the dose be rounded to a single tablet (a 17 percent decrease from 193, well above the 5 percent threshold), and asked Lucca if she accepted this recommendation.She clicked “Yes.” In doing so, she believed she had ordered the one double-strength Septra tablet that Pablo had been taking at home, which was precisely what she had intended to do all along. All would have been well — had she been right. But she wasn’t.Illustrated by UCSF MD/writer/blogger/speaker...Analyzing healthcare in lively, iconoclastic,  humorous ways. New book: The Digital Doctor: Hope, Hype, and Harm…now availableMining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

Last March, I was in Costa Rica with my girlfriend, spending our days between beautiful beaches and jungles full of exotic animals. There was barely any connectivity and we were immersed in nature in a way that we could never be in a big city. It felt great.But in the evening, when we got back to the hotel and connected to the WiFi, our phones would immediately start pushing an entire day’s worth of notifications, constantly interrupting our special time together. It interrupted us while watching the sunset, while sipping a cocktail, while having dinner, while having an intimate moment. It took emotional time away from us.And it’s not just that our phones vibrated, it’s also that we kept checking them to see if we had received anything, as if we had some sort of compulsive addiction to it. Those rare messages that are highly rewarding, like being notified that Ashton Kutcher just tweeted this article, made consciously “unplugging” impossible.Just like How did this happen?Back in 1990, we didn’t have any connected devices. This was the “unplugged” era. There were no push notifications, no interruptions, nada. Things were analog, things were human.Around 1995, the Internet started taking off, and our computers became connected. With it came email, and the infamous “you’ve got mail!” notification. We started getting interrupted by people, companies and spammers sending us electronic messages at random moments.10 years later, we entered the mobile era. This time, it is not 1, but 3 devices that are connected: a computer, a phone, and a tablet. The trouble is that since these devices don’t know which one you are currently using, the default strategy has been to push all notifications on all devices. Like when someone calls you on your phone, and it also rings on your computer, and actually keeps ringing after you’ve answered it on one of your devices! And it’s not just notifications; accessing a service and finding content is equally frustrating on mobile devices, with those millions of apps and tiny keyboards.If we take notifications and the need for explicit interactions as a proxy for technological friction, then each connected device adds more of it. Unfortunately, this is about to get much worse, since the number of connected devices is increasing exponentially!This year, in 2015, we are officially entering what is called the “Internet of Things” era. That’s when your watch, fridge, car and lamps are connected. It is expected that there will be more than 100 billion connected devices by 2025, or 14 for every person on this planet. Just imagine what it will feel like to interact manually and receive notifications simultaneously on 14 devices.. That’s definitely not the future we were promised!There is hope though. There is hope that Artificial Intelligence will fix this. Not the one When you look at the trend in the capabilities of A.I., what you see it that it takes a bit longer to start, but when it does, it grows much faster. We already have A.I.s that can learn to play video games and Taking the connected devices curve, and subtracting the one for A.I., we see that the overall friction keeps increasing over the next few years until the point where A.I. becomes so capable that this friction flips around and quickly disappears. In this era, called “Ubiquitous Computing”, adding new connected devices does not add friction, it actually adds value!For example, our phones and computers will be smart enough to know where to route the notifications. Our cars will drive themselves, already knowing the destination. Our beds will be monitoring our sleep, and anticipating when we will be waking up so that we have freshly brewed coffee ready in the kitchen. It will also connect with the accelerometers in our phones and the electricity sockets to determine how many people are in the bed, and adjust accordingly. Our alarm clocks won’t need to be set; they will be connected to our calendars and beds to determine when we fell asleep and when we need to wake up.All of this can also be aggregated, offering public transport operators access to predicted passenger flows so that there are always enough trains running. Traffic lights will adjust based on self-driving cars’ planned route. Power plants will produce just enough electricity, saving costs and the environment. Smart cities, smart homes, smart grids.. They are all just consequences of having ubiquitous computing!By the time this happens, technology will have become so deeply integrated in our lives and ourselves that we simply won’t notice it anymore. Artificial Intelligence will have made technology disappear from our consciousness, and the world will feel unplugged again.I know this sounds crazy, but there are historical examples of other technologies that followed a similar pattern. For example, back in the 1800s, electricity was very tangible. It was expensive, hard to produce, would cut all the time, and was dangerous. You would get electrocuted and your house could catch fire. Back then, people actually believed that oil lamps were safer!But as electricity matured, it became cheaper, more reliable, and safer. Eventually, it was everywhere, in our walls, lamps, car, phone, and body. It became ubiquitous, and we stopped noticing it. Today, the exact same thing is happening with connected devices.Building this ubiquitous computing future relies on giving devices the ability to sense and react to the current context, which is called “context-awareness”.A good way to think about it is through the combination of 4 layers: the device layer, which is about making devices talk to each other; the individual layer, which encompasses everything related to a particular person, such as his location history, calendar, emails or health records; the social layer, which models the relationship between individuals, and finally the environmental layer, which is everything else, such as the weather, the buildings, the streets, trees and cars.For example, to model the social layer, we can look at the emails that were sent and received by someone, which gives us an indication of social connection strength between a group of people.The graph shown above is extracted from my professional email account using the Now that we have a better representation of someone’s social connections, we can use it to perform better natural language processing (NLP) of calendar events by disambiguating events like “Chat with Michael”, which would then assign a higher probability to my co-founder.But a calendar won’t help us figure out habits such as going to the gym after work, or hanging out in a specific neighborhood on Friday evenings. For that, we need another source of data: geolocation. By monitoring our location over time and detecting the places we have been to, we can understand our habits, and thus, predict what we will be doing next. In fact, knowing the exact place we are at is essential to predict our intentions, since most of the things we do with our devices are based on what we are doing in the real world.Unfortunately, location is very noisy, and we never know exactly where someone is. For example below, I was having lunch in San Francisco, and this is what my phone recorded while I was not moving. Clearly it is impossible to know where I actually am!To circumvent this problem, we can score each place according to the current context. For example, we are more likely to be at a restaurant during lunch time than at a nightclub. If we then combine this with a user-specific model based on their location history, we can achieve very high levels of accuracy. For example, if I have been to a Starbucks in the past, it will increase the probability that I am there now, as well as the probability of any other coffee shop.And because we now know that I am in a restaurant, my devices can surface the apps and information that are relevant to this particular place, such as reviews or mobile payments apps accepted there. If I was at the gym, it would be my sports apps. If I was home, it would be my leisure and home automation apps.If we combine this timeline of places with the phone’s accelerometer patterns, we can then determine the transportation mode that was taken between those places. With this, our connected watches could now tell us to stand up when it detects we are still, stop at a rest area when it detects we are driving, or tell us where the closest bike stand is when cycling!These individual transit patterns can then be aggregated over several thousand users to recreate very precise population flow in the city’s infrastructure, as we have done below for Paris.Not only does it give us an indication of how many people transit in each station, it also give us the route they have been taking, where they changed train or if they walked between stations. Combining this with data from the city — concerts, office and residential buildings, population demographics, … — enables you to see how each factor impacts public transport, and even predict how many people will be boarding trains throughout the day. It can then be used to notify commuters that they should take a different train if they want to And it’s not just public transport. The same model and data can be used to predict queues in post offices, by taking into account hyperlocal factors such as when the welfare checks are being paid, the bank holidays, the proximity of other post offices and the staff strikes. This is shown below, where the blue curve is the real load, and the orange one is the predicted load.This model can be used to notify people of the best time to drop and pickup their parcels, which results in better yield management and customer service. It can also be used to plan the construction of new post offices, by sizing them accordingly. And since a post office is just a retail store, everything that works here can work for all retailers: grocery stores, supermarkets, shoe shops, etc.. It could then be plugged into our devices, enabling them to optimize our shopping schedule and make sure we never queue again!This contextual modeling approach is in fact so powerful that it can even predict the risk of car accidents just by looking at features such as the street topologies, the proximity of bars that just closed, the road surface or the weather. Since these features are generalizable throughout the city, we can make predictions even in places where there was never a car accident!For example here, we can see that our model correctly detects Trafalgar square as being dangerous, even though nowhere did we explicitly say so. It discovered it automatically from the data itself. It was even able to identify the impact of cultural events, such as St Patrick’s day or New Year’s Eve! How cool would it be if our self-driving cars could take this into account?If we combine all these different layers — personal, social, environmental — we can recreate a highly contextualized timeline of what we have been doing throughout the day, which in turn enables us to predict what our intentions are.Making our devices able to figure out our current context and predict our intentions is the key to building truly intelligent products. With that in mind, our team has been prototyping a One thing in particular that we are really proud of is that we were able to build privacy by design (full post coming soon!). It is a tremendous engineering challenge, but we are now running all our algorithms directly on the device. Whether it’s the machine learning classifiers, the signal processing, the natural language processing or the email mining, they are all confined to our smartphones, and never uploaded to our servers. Basically, it means we can now harness the full power of A.I. without compromising our privacy, something that has never been achieved before.It’s important to understand that this is not just about building some cool tech or the next viral app. Nor is it about making our future look like a science-fiction movie. It’s actually about making technology disappear into the background, so that we can regain the freedom to spend quality time with the people we care about.Entrepreneur  Data Scientist. Founder at Snips.netThis publication features the articles written by Snips’ team, fellows, and friends of Snips.

Here is an essay version of my class notes from Class 1 of Stanford I also took inspiration of turning my notes into an essay from Blake Masters who wrote these The classic mythos of Silicon Valley is that startups are what make Silicon Valley special.The classic story of Silicon Valley is:This story is partially true. It’s important to get the founding team right, get the initial product correct, and get your funding right; however, this story misses out on many of the important aspects of building an enduring company.The main problem with this story is now startups are abundant in Silicon Valley, in the U.S., and in the rest of the world — Europe, Latin America, Asia, etc. Now it’s possible to assemble a team, raise capital, and build a product anywhere in the world.However there is a disproportionate number of transformational companies which are based in Silicon Valley, why is that?If you look at companies that are worth $10B+, all of them except for 2 come from Silicon Valley (Alibaba and Tencent are the exceptions).If you look at the top 10% of all unicorn companies (companies worth more than $1B on paper) — 50% of them are from the SF Bay Area. If you look at the top 60% of all unicorn companies — 47% of them are from the bay area.Given there are only 7M people in the bay area — why is there such a concentration of transformational companies in this region? Something very different is going on in the SF Bay Area vs. other places where startups are being created.The theory and basis of this class is that Silicon Valley is special because we have a lot of experience and operational knowledge about scaling companies — which is coined as Blitzscaling by Reid Hoffman and The goal of the class is to document and share the knowledge of Blitzscaling to the participants in this class and to the rest of the world. (these classes are being recorded and will be shared online).There is no step-by-step playbook on how to scale a company but there are strategies which have been learned and used by the individuals who have scaled companies. In this class they will bring in top individuals around the different levels of scaling to share the lessons learned.One of the other big themes that will be covered is the concept of networks. This includes the networks of people, talent, skills, universities, companies, investors, and all of the inter-relationships between these networks.For example in Silicon Valley and particularly at Stanford University there is a huge diversity of people who have built and scaled many long lasting companies. Examples include: Frederick Terman, Hewlett and Packard, Andy Bechtolsheim, Aneel Bhusri, Sergey Brin, and more.Here is how Reid, John, and Allen broke down the different levels of scale.A 3–4 person startup is very different from a 15 person company and both of these are very different compared to an organization with 100s of employees. At each level of scale the company experiences operational changes.A few of the key questions across each level of scale include:For example at Workday, one of the founders Aneel Bhusri personally interviewed all of their new employees from 0 to 500 employees because culture was critically important to them. However this starts to become very difficult to do from 500–1,000s of people, at this scale you have to take a different approach to scaling hiring and culture.A second example is while you are small your competition is mostly other startups. However as you scale your revenue and customer base, then your competition switches from other startups to the industry leaders.There is no one size fits all approach but rather the goal of the class is to provide you with a chessboard of how to think about moving from one level of scale to the next level of scale — and also when to scale in the first place.Almost all of the startup information out there is focused on the first level of scale — building your mvp, iterating, trying to find product market fit, etc. Much of this won’t be covered in this class.Allen Blue shared a personal account of the different stages of LinkedIn’s growth and how things changed at each stage. I particularly liked the pictures he shared on the # of LinkedIn users vs. the # of LinkedIn employees.The family stage —Is the stage where small teams are building a product to get product market fitThe things which are critically important in this stage are:The things which are not important in this stage are:In a startup there are always fires burning. The key in this stage is to know which fires are important to fix and which ones can keep burning. You have to focus on the things which are the most critical only.For example analytics, dashboards, and data management will not matter at all if no one cares about your product. Getting people to care about your product is much more important than metrics (at this stage).One key insight is — trying to get anyone to use and care about a new product is really hard. Once you find the product that starts to work at all then you can worry about the systems to manage that product.One of John Lilly’s favorite essays on this stage is Paul Graham’s essay on When you are first starting out, your whole team needs to do things such as:These activities won’t scale but they are critically important to getting your first 100s of users.For example a story was shared in class about Airbnb. When they were first starting out the Having both the founders and the early team do activities like these, gives you a good sense of what your customers actually look and feel like.This was an awesome first class and I am really looking forward to the next one. I’ll post the second lecture notes here after our next class.Community Lead @ Greylock Partners. Previously founded Here are my class notes on CS183C. This course is taught by Reid Hoffman, John Lilly, Chris Yeh, and Allen Blue. Credit for all the good stuff is theirs, errors and omissions are my own.

I don’t know anything about Meditation and Mindfulness. I thought it was total B/S a year ago. Today I cannot miss a day without meditating often for more than an hour and I am totally addicted to it. Soren Gordhamer asked me to share my thoughts in a short talk at I don’t know why most people think meditation is a waste of time for weirdos or monks. It’s no longer the case for me. Why would we do workouts for our body muscles and never take care of our mind?In Silicon Valley meditation has become such a trend that if you do not meditate, you get peer pressure to start.Look at how the Wisdom 2.0 conference grew from a few hundred people (I was there and spoke) a few years ago to thousands of participants eager to learn more.Friends and tech thought leaders such as Evan Williams or Arianna Huffington are very public about their practice. Meditation sessions in the office whith the entire company team every morning are common. I have about ten friends who did the 10 day Vippasana meditation course and tell me it changed their lives, Ben Casnocha is one of them and There is a whole ecosystem of apps being created around meditation. I used I find it very interesting that those who invented social networking tools such as Twitter are trying to solve the problem they created themselves: distraction.I have Meditation created an entirely new space in my brain.I could not even imagine the space meditation created for me. There is a place of calm in my mind that I can access now anytime and it feels great. I could only access that space when I was seated eyes closed in meditation, now it’s with me all the time. Meditation is doing nothing indeed, but that doing nothing opens a new world in your mind which allows me get quiet and get ideas I would have never had before.If by any chance I end up waiting for a plane or someone I was immediately bored or would constantly check my email. Now I get to that space and just enjoy every minute of it, I am never bored.Meditation taught me to have less needs. When I meditate I need nothing. I can be with myself for an hour or more in silence, watching the constant flow of ideas get into my mind like clouds pass in the sky. That’s one of the first benefit, I get “bombarded” much less by that flow of ideas and I am starting to be able to let them go one by one. Even if they are disturbing thoughts, sadness, guilt, regrets, they all go away at one point and don’t matter. I am simplifying a lot the way I live and try to get rid of a lot of things and ideas that were unnecessary.It’s much more difficult to get me angry about something. As I get aware of the ideas that come into my mind and let them go I can now see myself becoming angry about something or someone and I can “park it” and somehow control it. Okay sometimes I fail, I know, but I generally feel that I am becoming a much better person.During each meditation session I always think about who matters to me the most: my family and my friends. I have a feeling that I understand them better now and got closer to them by thinking about them daily more and being aware about it.I can concentrate better and spend hours without looking at my iPhone or email. That’s very new for me and it’s liberating.I used to rush to read and answer some emails in the morning, now I rush into meditating. It’s a beautiful thing. I try to catch a few ideas from my dreams and think about them, I think about how I want my day to be like and what really matters to me. I can avoid distractions much more. I then try to have another meditation before going to bed and reflect on the day. Is it how I imagined it would be? Did I do what I wanted to do?I started six tech businesses and invested in more than twenty others. I have been always rushing into the next thing my whole life.For the first time I pause.I think about death and what I want to get done before it happens. Who I want to be. What are my values. Where I want to spend my time and with whom. What I have lived and experienced and what I have not and want to. How I can help comes to mind, too, believe it or not.It might sound negative but it is not, I am just becoming aware of myself much more instead of just following the flow of my life I try to get much more in the drivers seat. It’s like when you read and answer your emails, it’s a to-do list others impose on you. I don’t want to live like that anymore, I want to decide what I want to do much more.I am now completely addicted to meditation, it is changing my life and changing me. It is a good addiction. Some of my friends think I am getting weird meditating every day and I could not care less. I did not understand it either earlier and I do not blame them. I just try to get them to practice as well because it would be so good for them.I have just registered for a Update: here is the video of my talkLeWeb co-founder. Loves kitesurfing and running.

My initial goal was to build a solid template for documenting front-end technology stacks. Why is this important? If you plan to define standards for your company, partner agencies and freelancers, you might need a boilerplate for documenting the used technologies. Therefore I did a survey about the front-end technology stack people are using. I tried to provide the questions and answering options I thought would be enough to describe most of the basic front-end stacks. I’ve got 170 responses mainly via Twitter in about a day from a good mix of front-end devs working for agencies, enterprises and startups. It’s not that much, but an acceptable start. Maybe In addition, I tried to add some more insights using Google Trends. Those trends don’t seem to be a very reliable source for representative results here, but they give you an additional idea of the general trends and time relations. Please don’t take it too serious, it’s not a scientific research. Thanks to all who took part in the survey, I really appreciate your help. You can find the complete report with some more questions in the full A front-end stack takes a lot of effort to build and can be detailed and complex as hell. I tried to limit on the topics, that are common and used in most projects. I came up with the following list of question groups for my survey. I know, that the text editor is generally not really important for the stack, but I wondered if it has an impact on something else.In the target group, the simple, but extendable editors like Sublime Text win over complete IDEs like WebStorm. The “Other” group contains no major set of votes for a specific editor, only minorities for Coda or VisualStudio. You can see a similar picture when looking at the Google Trends. I wonder what happens with the recently released Atom (led by Github) or Brackets (led by Adobe), once they grow up.Just because I was curious, I added Eclipse in comparison to the newer or fancier editors. As you can see, there is still a huge, but also dramatically sinking usage of the popular IDE.Well, this is a boring and expected one… Git is running towards the domination of the version control market, especially with open source projects (thanks to Github).Not a very important question, but interesting anyway. Just as a refresher — a CSS reset removes all basic styling and a “normalize” just makes them look the same across all browser, but doesn’t remove them entirely.With the rise of the HTML5 Boilerplate project, the normalize.css started to become a good alternative to the classic CSS reset method (Eric Meyer and YUI).This is probably a political question, but my opinion is that the existence of Compass gives Sass/SCSS a boost in popularity over LESS.With the rise of CSS pre-processors, the need for mixin libraries and best practices has grown. Compass does a great job by providing a complete set of mixins and more for Sass developers, there is nothing comparably popular for LESS or Stylus so far.The only growing pre-processor add-on seems to be Compass for Sass so far.This is quite interesting, the majority of the developers said they don’t prefer to use a CSS or pattern library like Bootstrap, but if so, Bootstrap takes the major stake.Wow, this is impressive, @mdo and all the others folks building Boostrap are doing an amazing job. Thankfully, they made pattern libraries and front-end style guides a real thing.Templating (client-side) is still a relatively new topic, therefore more than a third said they don’t use it currently. I think the question was misleading, because I actually wanted to filter on client-side templates. But some great insights anyway. Jade takes the largest stake in the “Other” category.Since this question was a little misleading, the following is just for your amusement ☺But hey, it’s time to give another template language a high five. Markdown. Mainly used for authoring, it has the potential to become more important for HTML templating in general.I thought there would be more impact of libraries like zepto, but in the end, people want to use all those plugins out there and therefore use jQuery, with an acceptable loss in performance or bandwidth.Another incredible piece of software is Angular, it’s really a huge step forward and with the power of Google behind it, it has the potential to become the clear number one in JS frameworks. But, as you can see in the survey results, many developers are still not using a large framework like Angular.Backbone looses some attention, while the popularity of Angular grows constantly. Ember is steady where it is and dojo doesn’t seem to play a role in this game.This wasn’t a very useful question, it should have been more a question about if someone uses bower or not. But anyways it shows that both, npm and bower, therefore package management in general is growing in interest. npm because of node and bower for managing front-end packages.Build systems for the web are still relatively new, but they really help you setting up a professional build of your code (Minification, Concatention, Testing, just to name a few). Grunt made the jump start on the topic and has gathered a large community so far. Gulp is the fancy newcomer in the space and also got a lot of attention recently. Grunt still has way more plugins, but Gulp is catching up.What happens if we compare the front-end build tools grunt and gulp to classic build tools like ant and maven? Like we’ve seen with Eclipse, Java and related technologies are still very popular. What’s interesting here is, that Ant is very similar to Grunt and Gulp in general and Maven is more like a combination of bower/npm and grunt/gulp because it’s strong in managing the dependencies for the actual code as well. I wonder what the future will look like here.I asked people what they normaly do during a build using grunt/gulp. For sure, there is compilation, concatenation and minification, but also image optimization and testing is done by many people. This list can be extremely long, since you have a lot of options with the plugins grunt and gulp provide. I decided to not list all of them here, there are other great sources for this kind of information.Even if the number of participants is not very representative, the survey gives a good overview of the current commonly used front-end technology stacks. The comparison to the global search trends gives me a feeling about the survey results in general. I hope this quick analysis helps you to get some insights in usage and trends as well. If you are not very familiar with front-end technologies it helps you to talk with your developers and partners and get an idea of the stack they are using and where you need to put one of those buzzwords.At Founder  Craftsman 

Usually I make things with computers. On the rare times I stand on a stage it’ll be to show my work, with slides and a pitch, but I don’t really have any work to show you this evening. I don’t have a TED style neatly packaged ‘idea worth spreading’. I’ve been asked to come and share some thoughts based on my experiences as a young practitioner in today’s world, which I got quite excited about. I’ve got opinions, I reckon. But I’m not used to just standing here and articulating thoughts. So I’ve written them all down.Also as it’s based on my experiences, I need to talk about some context, which I’m afraid means I have to talk about myself for a bit. I hope you understand it’s important for this talk and not just my vanity.So that’s all the apologising out of the way.I went to a London comprehensive, called Woodbridge High School. OFSTED reports had it hovering around ‘average’ among similar schools. That’s about 60% of students getting 5 A-Cs at GCSE. Put frankly, the education was awful. I can list everything I learnt from the curriculum in my time there: a little bit about the war poets from a teacher who was quickly seduced into the private education sector, some cold war history, and that using your year 8 speech to speak out against homophobia gets you beaten up. I looked forward to being a grown up, being my own boss, and playing with the real world.I was incredibly fortunate. At the age of 13, from my comfortable bedroom I began to tinker with computers. I got interested in a new technology called Ruby on Rails, an opinionated framework for making interactive websites, around which more intelligent and experienced people openly discussed and shared best practices and code. I learnt along with them, and within a couple of years, it turned out that knowledge was very profitable. Working as a programmer enabled me to drop out of my A levels, sidestep the recession, the generational debt and the joblessness being handed to all of my peers and was able to work in whatever industry or company intrigued me. By the time I was 23, I had worked in Business Continuity, the Music industry, Media, Advertising and Design. It was like industrial tourism: a never ending series of internships, except I was valued and got paid, sometimes very well.You might think the BBC news website article narrative here charts how a boy in his twenties taught himself to code, left school and founded a dynamic startup. It could have been an iPhone app that sold a few million copies, an industry disrupting platform for whatever, or (if I was feeling fluffy and socially conscience) a social innovation startup, perhaps enabling homeless people to become just like me, a self-reliant self-starting entrepreneur!All very tempting, but these saccharin narratives of geek boy done good carry a political message that I’m not comfortable with. People are incredibly excited in and outside of tech and in the mainstream media about specific aspects of the tech world. They are fascinated by profits, newness and the political issues of data protection and surveillance. But beyond this there is a severe lack of debate about how the tech community participates in our socio economic context. Because for all the excitement around the new powers of technology, the tech community became one of the most powerful practitioners of the neo liberal agenda, with only some of us noticing.If you look around the most hyped areas of the technology industry, at best you’ll see no mention of government, at worst an active interest in shrinking it. On the screen I’ve put together a super cut of a genre called ‘Design Fiction’. Typically, a creative agency somewhere gets a contract with a big technology company to show their future vision of the world, and how they fit in it. It’s like corporate sponsored science fiction. They are soulless worlds where healthy successful people go to work in empty offices, then go home to their shiny expansive but empty homes. Again, government isn’t mentioned.But it’s not that I think all software developers are neo-liberals. In fact, it seems we’re working hard to not notice. A few months ago Bruce Sterling made a keynote address at NextWeb conference. It contained some harsh truths for the conference hall of eager entrepreneurs. I’ll quote a bit to give you an idea.There was basically no media coverage and the audience seemed to stare down at their phones, only laughing nervously at the most intense moments. On YouTube it’s currently only got 1,200 views, unlike these videos that get millions. This is the dominant narrative for the future. Why is this?Many developers I speak to shy away from politics. They comfort themselves with ideas of our community being meritocratic, that the good guys will win out over partisan and agenda based politics because we are working towards a more logical, educated society. This is, of course, the same lie as the fully informed rational consumer of market liberalisation. They shrug when it’s pointed out that we’re nearly all white middle class men. The discussions around women in technology have only just started, and boy do they get defensive about it, and we haven’t even begun discussing class based privilege, so repellant is the idea of discussing something as political in our rational meritocratic nirvana. ‘Check your privilege’ is an idea that flies directly in the face of our self narratives of the underdog nerd proving himself with his intelligence and well meaning intentions.Our generation is generally adverse to ideologies. I don’t have too much of a problem with this. I find that Ideologies often cause nothing but obstacles to those people who are actually getting things done. But as developers we are both close to the ground, and have real power. In his new short book “The new Kingmakers”, Stephen O’Grady very effectively makes the case that software developers are just that. It’s time we stopped making toys for quite rich people to make very rich people even richer.So instead I’m currently working at the Ministry of Justice, and I’ve been encouraging everyone I know to join the public sector. Our numbers are growing. Currently, in the UK Cabinet Office, the Government Digital Service has one of the best digital teams in the country. And they’re succeeding. It started life as a tiny team in a disused floor of a government building in south London, building a prototype to prove that it could be done. The watching civil servants said ‘that’s nice work. but it’ll never go live’. They got funding to grow and build a beta, with real plans on replacing DirectGov. The watching civil servants said ‘that’s nice work. but it’ll never go live’. One year ago this week, DirectGov was turned off, and GOV.UK became the government’s home page. In April it won design of the year.For reasons I won’t go in to, I found myself at a tory bar called ‘Maggies’ with the Tax Payers Alliance the next day. I got chatting with them about GOV.UK’s award. The amount of disgust expressed surprised me. In my sheltered world, I had never met anyone who had such a negative opinion. Intrigued, I spent the next half an hour trying to figure out why. I got a lot of emotions, but not a lot of sense. Words like “I don’t like it, I’m the customer so I’m right” were muttered, ignoring the huge amounts of user research, testing and iterative improvements that were made. They didn’t seem to care that it was proving we could save millions, if not billions of tax payers money.I have a suspicion. I suspect that the idea of the public sector not only doing something well but better than most of the private sector offends them. Turns out the best way to piss off market libertarians is to make government work.Sure, I hear moans from Silicon Roundabout that the government is sucking up all the best talent in London, but while they’re saying that, GOV.UK increased signups to the organ donations register by 10,000 every month with just a bit of clever A/B testing as a side project. I could be working on your socially network website that tries to convince parents that fruitshoot isn’t awful for their kids (I have actually done that), or I could be doing what I’m doing now, helping bring real change to the office of the public guardian so they can do their job better. They provide support for those caring for someone who has lost mental capacity, whilst checking that the carer isn’t abusing their position.Now don’t get me wrong. I love the software developer community. I love being a part of it and I’m constantly excited about what we are doing. But I’m also frustrated. We seemed to have been coerced into working for a future that we didn’t sign up for. But hopefully, as anger amongst my generation grows at the world that has been handed to us, maybe more of us will realise that they may have the money, but we have the tools of technology.Those are some thoughts. As I mentioned I don’t have a neatly packaged up conclusion for you, but I hope they have been interesting.Thank you.ex digital government (

I think of books as technology. The broadest and most useful definition of technology I’ve heard is simply, “the ability to do more with less.”We live only one life, but through books, we can gain the wisdom from thousands. Books are the most undervalued and under appreciated technology in the world.How do we know they’re so valuable? We need only to examine how the best and the worst people throughout history have viewed books.The worst seek to downplay, ban, or burn them. The fact that books have such extreme haters confirms their power.But amongst those who seek to do good in the world, to do no harm, books are adored.Like every other technology, if we use them without intention or any ascetics, it can lead to distraction. But when we learn how to appropriately value, select, and acquire them with stakes and incentives (buy them)… books become priceless. Here are seven reasons why books are the perfect technology.I apologize to all the modafinil lovers out there. But when it comes to tradeoffs, books have traditional nootropics beat. A traditional nootropic might be faster acting, but it’s just a temporary upgrade to your current abilities. Eventually, it wears off. Books permanently upgrade your mind, leaving you with a lifetime of benefits. The side effects of books have been tested by time, whereas the latest nootropics? Not so much.The best books are written when the author is in a flow state. The author transmits their wisdom, muse, or insights with minimal ego. When a reader seeking wisdom moves through these words and enters their own flow state… magic happens.I don’t know how it works, but after enough time of reading, my mind always feels upgraded. Programming our minds by moving consciously into the flow state (writing) of a wise person is a powerful teacher. When we upgrade our mental OS, our main apps; speaking, writing, and communicating all begin to run faster and more smoothly.After I published this article, Hoffer got it right that, “A man by himself is in bad company.” This might be true initially, but we can grow ourselves out of this place. It takes hard work to become good company to ourselves. But if we read, pause for reflection, and work on us… we can become good company for ourselves. By reading, we train and program ourselves for what is arguably the greatest human challenge of our time.Teaching ourselves how to be content, and even enjoy spending time alone, is a vital skill.There are tradeoffs for everything in life, but reading too much (of the best books) isn’t dangerous. The hunger for wisdom seems to be the only desire that we can satiate. There isn’t a risk of overindulgence. After enough reading, we become charged with good ideas and courage to go out and explore the world. Once we get fueled up on enough wisdom, we become inspired to embark on our next hero and heroine’s journey.Binge watching an entire series on Netflix leads to a hangover. Whereas attempting to, “binge” on books, leads to a certain point where we feel the urge to venture back out into the world. Mixing the wisdom from books with the direct experience of an adventurous life is always rewarding.The more we read and spend time with books, the more we practice mindfulness and meditation. Reading helps teach us patience, calmness, and builds our ability to focus deeply on a single thing for an extended period of time.Books and reading are one of the last societally acceptable reasons for being alone. If you need respite from society, there is no better strategic isolation than books. Books help keep us safe from crowds.Throughout history, books have given artists, masters, and philosophers an antifragile vehicle to place truth. So what do I mean by this? There are many people who hate to think. When they hear something wise, they’ll react viscerally, or even attack the person that brought them truth. Many in society hate the idea of pursuing truth, (becoming less wrong) or developing heuristics and insights about how the world works.Most creatives know this, so the only way to deliver truth in a palatable way that can survive attack is a book. The more entertaining the narrative or parable, the more readers will tolerate new ideas. Because the book is able to be sold, it helps these ideas survive attack, and gives their author a chance to capture a small amount of value from their ideas. This is a big leap forward for humans. Throughout our history, those who make others think are usually the first to be scapegoated, ostracized, or demonized. Books give the would-be scapegoat a vehicle to place their ideas so that they can survive attack, and sometimes even spread because of the attack.Books might be one of our (more) perfect technologies, but they are still technology. They are largely agnostic and neutral until we take the plunge, purchase one (acquire the incentives and stakes to read it) or find the books good enough to re-read:Technology can’t change our lives, only we can. When we take a perfect technology like books seriously, we can change our lives, lift up those around us, or even gain the secrets necessary to create new types of perfect technology.Veteran, Author, Accelerated Learning, Tech, Antifragility, and Definite Optimism

School looks different today than it did even a handful of years ago. Teaching and learning is changing — in exciting ways — because the world is changing.We now live in a global economy with a knowledge-based marketplace, where the ultimate measure of our success is becoming less about what we know, but more about what we Technology has helped to accelerate this pace of change, retooling nearly every aspect of our daily life, from how we communicate, to how we shop, to how we receive medical care. Schools — many of which have been slow to embrace innovation — are beginning to engage in this digital revolution.In the United States, education is meant to be the great equalizer. Technology has the potential to bridge gaps for those who have the least. Simply put, technology can be a powerful tool for equality as well.Classrooms across the country are marrying hands-on, inquiry-driven learning with digital technologies. They are blending traditional instruction with computer-based activities. They’re also using the web to provide teachers and students with greater access to resources, primary source documents, and faraway subject matter experts. Importantly, teachers are helping students to leverage technology as a platform for collaboration, creativity, and self-expression.The $8 billion education technology sector has helped to make these changes possible, but we need to do even more.It’s about teaching yourself new skills when you encounter new challenges.Efforts to further educational innovation must not only help students to develop skills for modern lives and careers. They also must help prepare students to be captains of their future and creators of a better world in ways in which my generation, likely yours, and others before us never dreamed possible.Think about this: At Arizona State University’s Tempe campus, students in industrial design and innovation space programs use 3-D printers to And just a few decades ago, robots were the subjects of science fiction. Today, students like Kyle Weintraub are using robots to attend school while being treated for cancer (check out the video below).Almost every aspect of what we find most familiar about education is getting recalibrated. Students are as likely to learn from one another as they are from their teacher. A final exam may be a design challenge with real world implications, not just a test for a grade. Today’s students are also much more likely to expect their school to adjust to These are the right evolutions in our perceptions of teaching and learning. They’re also hard to do well, and widely. But, technology and innovation can help.Here’s what we need from technology in order for our children not only to flourish in — but also shape — the hyper-connected, high-tech world that awaits them:One danger of educational technology is that digital-learning tools and innovation could miss their potential to close persistent opportunity gaps and instead disproportionately benefit students who already have the most advantages. The way we use and provide access to technology can either exacerbate or diminish the differences among young people from different communities.That’s why the Obama administration has taken concrete steps to ensure access and equity in digital learning with funding for innovations that tailor learning to students’ needs and smarter assessments that measure content knowledge and important skills, like critical thinking.Another positive step is the And in the field, there is a growing push to create But equity doesn’t mean that we give the same solution to every child. Equity in education — and in educational technology — means that the tools and resources are personalized for each child’s needs.Great teachers have been doing this work for years. Technology can be a force-multiplier for teachers by helping them to see immediately which students need more support and then tailor learning activities accordingly.Throughout all of this work, we must recognize that technology by itself is neither good nor bad; it is merely an accelerator. Our job — as educators, parents, policymakers, funders, and developers alike — is to ensure that we use technology to accelerate the right things. And one fail-safe measure of whether an innovation is worth accelerating is by determining whether it will help us create more opportunity for kids.Until recently, the main function of public education has been to convey knowledge in one direction, from teachers to students. But with the growth of the Internet and mobile technology, our relationship to knowledge has fundamentally changed. To succeed in today’s world, our students need to be adept at not only recalling information, but using their knowledge to conceive, create, and employ solutions to real-world problems.Students aren’t vessels to be filled with facts. And educators aren’t simply transmitters of information.Technology is enhancing the crucial relationship between educators and learners, helping teachers to use their time and talents more effectively to personalize learning for students — tailoring the pace, approach, and context of the learning experience to students’ individual needs and interests.But teachers and students shouldn’t be limited as passive consumers of digital media. They can — and should — be the That’s why I am encouraged by the first-ever The central promise of personalized learning is to help people develop their unique strengths and passions. Both teachers and students can benefit from a vision of personalized learning that helps them become smart consumers and skilled creators of content and tools.Educators frequently share that teaching is the most difficult job anyone can have — and also the most rewarding. Teachers can literally shape the way young people see themselves and the world. Unfortunately, their efforts are too often not fully appreciated, supported, or immediately rewarded.The implications of that statement are clear: If we want to make teaching a more desirable — and sustainable — profession, we need innovative approaches that amplify the rewards and diminish the difficulties of being an educator.Technology can help by ensuring that professional development for teachers is just as personalized and meaningful as the education we expect them to provide to their students. We also need tools and platforms that provide customized feedback to teachers so they can deepen the quality of their practice precisely in the ways — and at precisely the times — they need. We need tools that ease the administrative burdens of the job to free teachers to spend more time engaging with their students.At the Department of Education, we’re working to do our part, whether it’s investing in The Collectively, we must be willing to let go of a lot of the things we’ve been associating with schools for a long, long time. The world is changing — and our schools must prepare students to become the people who will shape it for the better.BrightU.S. Secretary of EducationInnovation in Education

This morning I went through my normal morning routine of seeing what happened overnight and getting ready for the morning. Thanks to link on Reddit I stumbled upon this article from The Verge.The writer comes to the conclusion that Sundar Pichai (Google VP Quoted above) was I’m terribly sorry but you are Ill end with this quote from the same article:No, truly smart parenting is a must to keep technology in its place.

High Fidelity, Pillow Talk, The Music Man: on technology and on ideas that rhyme, but then don’tIdeas can rhyme like words do. When words rhyme, the rhyme helps us position ourselves inside a poem: we know we’re at the end of a line when the rhyme happens. Rhyme’s spatial nature makes us pay attention to a similarity that doesn’t mean anything most of the time. “Bed” always sounds like “dead,” but we only notice — we only think it means something — when and where both words come at the end of nearby lines in a poem or song in a rhyme.When ideas rhyme, the rhyme helps us position ourselves inside a story, fictional or non-fictional. Ideas that rhyme* are building blocks for analogies.Here’s what I mean: one night some years back on a driving trip with my then-eight-year-old daughter we took in a show at the Oregon Shakespeare Festival. The classical plays were all too dark (Boy, was I wrong. The gap separating her everyday experience from The Music Man was no narrower than if I’d shown her the Thane of Cawdor’s ancient Scotland. River City, Iowa, after all, is so sleepy that when the Wells Fargo wagon arrives the whole town breaks into celebratory song. Try that today and the UPS guy will floor the big brown truck.Little about In contrast, at eight H had grown up in an information superabundant world with Google, email, hundreds of TV channels, infinite options online, books aplenty, music streaming from every direction, and frequent Amazon deliveries to our doorstep although not yet by drone. Today, with mobile and social media there’s even more.When you’re working with ideas that rhyme you can understand stories that don’t bear a lot of resemblance to your own life because there are structures buried inside the narrative ecosystems that look a lot like the structures buried inside your own life.When we saw The Music Man, H had just finished second grade and was about to enter third. The main reason H could appreciate The Music Man at all, which she did, was that going to elementary, middle and high school today is a lot like River City. The shapes of the experiences rhyme with each other: the same people milling about the same claustrophobia-inducing place doing the same stuff day after day… just with the addition of a barbershop quartet.What interests me is when ideas This isn’t just a matter of having lived your entire life with Batman as a dark movie character (Christian Bale) rather than the sunny TV one (Adam West) your parents remember with happy smiles — the sort of thing that Instead, I’m talking about stories that dwindle into inaccessibility because the audience no longer shares enough context with the story to understand it without footnotes — like trying to rhyme “bed” and “guava.” Indeed, the very presence of footnotes is a clear sign that a story belongs to the past more than the present.**Even back in 1959, when Pillow Talk (the first Rock Hudson and Doris Day movie) hit the theaters, party lines were already on their way out.But growing up in the 1980s the absence of party lines in my parents’ house didn’t stop me from understanding the movie. Pillow Talk made sense because I had to deal with the similarly-shaped frustration of never being able to have a private conversation. It was impossible to chat with a girlfriend and not have other people in both houses picking up the handsets every few minutes. So Pillow Talk was just like my house, only Jan Morrow (the Doris Day character) had to deal with complete strangers interrupting instead of clueless parents and malicious little brothers. The shapes of the experiences rhymed.But those ideas no longer rhyme today.It would never occur to now-teenaged H to use the house line to call her friends, and even if she did the likelihood of somebody else picking up the seldom-used house line is small. H has an iPhone, and since she doesn’t know any of her friends’ numbers by heart she would have to look at the address book in her iPhone in order to punch the number into the house line, which is absurd. Moreover, H wouldn’t want to use her mouth to make noises to communicate with her friends in the first place: that’s what texting, Instagram and Snapchat are for. If H does want to chat in real time, she’s more likely to use FaceTime or Skype.The telephone is for talking with grandparents.The plot of Pillow Talk revolves around technology barriers, but the technology in question no longer plays a role in the lives of children today. Universal Pictures couldn’t remake Pillow Talk unless the studio decided to set it in the same period when it was written, which would be pointless.Which brings me to my disheartening realization last night after I stumbled across The realization? My kids won’t understand High Fidelity. Oh, I’ll try to show it to them, and perhaps the charming performances will suck them in, but it’s unlikely because the ideas don’t rhyme.Want to know why? Just look at this timeline…Some of the key moments in the movie (ahem, spoiler alert… although if you haven’t seen the movie already then how did you make it this far in this post?) don’t make easy sense if you’ve grown up with today’s technology.Sure, there are still record stores out there that cater to music snobs, but not many, not one in every neighborhood and every shopping mall — and rumbling around the record store with your friends on a Saturday afternoon isn’t an activity for today’s teens the way is was for previous generations.In High Fidelity, as they hang around Championship Records waiting for customers to stumble in, many of the interactions among Rob, Dick and Barry concern musical trivia: which group first performed which song, who did what on which record. Today, Google would answer all such questions.Rob using a stack of quarters to call his ex Laura over and over again from a rain-drenched phone booth outside her new beau Ray’s apartment is dramatic and emotionally charged. Today, good luck finding a pay phone. Rob would simply hit redial on his smart phone while sitting at Starbucks.Rob making mix tapes for Caroline the music reporter and for Laura were time-draining labors of love in the 1990s, but today the process is instantaneous and not impactful. “Here, I spent hours selecting, organizing and recording this tape for you” becomes, “here, I spent minutes selecting and seconds creating this Spotify playlist for you: it’ll take you longer to listen to it than it took me to make it. Have fun!”In the vinyl days, when you heard about a new band or a new song you had to find a disc-shaped object somewhere, either in a store or at a friend’s house. When cassettes came along you could copy things, but you could only do it in real time, which was a drag.Teens today love music just as much as they ever have, but their musical challenges are about filtering rather than access. There’s instant streaming for just about everything, but the challenge is figuring out what to listen to, whether it’s free and where to find the best deal if it isn’t.High Fidelity — a movie that, sigh, I still think of as relatively new — is more distant from my kids’ automatically understandable experience than The Music Man. How weird.Watching stories move into the rear-view mirror — when ideas stop rhyming — is the flip side of watching technologies move into the unremarkable mainstream of our everyday lives where Douglas Adams, in a 1999 blog post called “With rhyming ideas, we can tweak this into a slightly different three-fold story:1) everything that’s already in the world when you’re born is just normal;2) anything that stops being relevant to everyday life between then and before you turn thirty (fax machines, type writers, cameras, VCRs) takes up space in your garage and makes you smile with nostalgia when you run across it;3) anything that stops being relevant after you’re thirty is a painful sign that you’re going to die sooner than you want to and that your kids don’t appreciate how good they have it until you gradually realize that this is just like when you rolled your eyes at your own parents when they nattered on about black and white TV and wringing out laundry and mixing food dye into margarine and that sort of thing so just relax because it happens to everybody.Still, though…High Fidelity is a terrific movie. Too bad my kids won’t get it.* My notion of “ideas that rhyme” is similar to but not identical with my old teacher Stephen Booth’s description of “ideational rhyme,” which he works out in detail in his edition of Shakespeare’s sonnets.** Simply putting the words “bed” and “guava” into proximity with each other might provoke readers with too much time on their hands to think about how these two things actually do go together. If this is the case, then for heaven’s sake please share with me how you think they go together because that sounds fascinating, and then please go read Donald Davidson’s 1978 essay “What Metaphors Mean” because it describes how our minds creates meanings out of these sorts of comparisons rather than discovering meanings that are already there.Futurist, strategist, researcher, startup advisor, writer, speaker, events veteran  family man.

Observations from my recent trip to South India (August 2015)Some observations on tech adoption in India from our recent trip (state of Tamilnadu mostly and a short trip to Bangalore) —I believe India is at a point where technology adoption is kind of equalizing compared to the western nations (subject to infrastructure constraints still) and there is a tremendous growth opportunity in almost all sectors given the scale of # of people and impact.IMO, migrating to the west should mostly be a lifestyle decision and not due to lack of opportunity for the qualified. It feels like an exciting place for the next Sundar or Satya in the making!Product Management Leader and Angel Investor

Our society is overloaded with over-hyped advancements in technology, causing people to lose sight to what’s important versus another toy for techies. Apple’s iBeacon and indoor navigation technology is one advancement that isn’t just for the tech savvy, it will have an indelible effect on how we interact and experience the great indoors.Digital wayfinding helps people navigate through internal spaces such as exhibitions, malls, airports or museums — almost a bit like Harry Potter’s Marauder’s Map. The technology is dynamic, helping you navigate a labyrinth of a shopping mall, showing additional information as you get closer to an object — like a personal tour guide with encyclopedic knowledge. Like all technologies, it takes time and money to implement a good wayfinding system, so there should be an expectation for a ROI. So let’s explore what benefits you should expect for your business.We estimate that after an investment period of two to three years you will continuously save money and increase user engagement which combined, leads to a bigger profit at the end of the day. Sounds great, doesn’t it? We’ve listed the strongest points for engagement  cost saving and illustrated them below.• • • •• • • —  • • • • • We can see there are many opportunities to receive a huge gain of loyalty, great image and feedback at your customers which makes it worthwhile to invest into Digital Wayfinding using a long-term strategy.Thanks to Daniel Young for editing my English. Read more on our Freigeist auf Reisen at DXYdoes.com in Berlin | We Build Digital Products

With ACA coming into effect and the complexities it brings for both employers and employees, technology solutions for administering employee benefits are on a great boost, providing excellent ways to communicate the changes with their employees, managing their benefits, handling claims and streamlining the most hectic task, making open enrollment season smoother.When it comes to open enrollment, employees get confused due to the complexities associated with ACA compliance and insurance benefits. Utilizing a benefits administration solution will aid employees with a self-service portal through which they can easily go through their applicable plans and know the basic details too. Providing an Both employees and employers, with an effective benefits administration solution, get the ease of making the process easier with filling required forms by employees themselves and removing the need of filling duplicate forms (the data once entered will be synchronized and can be fetched at any point of time). This will reduce the chances of any errors and will help in freeing up HRs too for more strategic tasks rather than doing the data entry for each employee. Also, during open enrollment season, employers can streamline the hectic and lengthy processes, thereby passing through the season without any hassles.In order to select a benefits administration solution suiting your organizational requirements, first analyze the existing company processes and gather the needs that are required to be fulfilled through that solution. Have a proper research done to find prospective vendors and shortlist them by aligning your requirement with the features they are providing. The next step is to have them give a demonstration of their products.A ben admin solution selected in such a way will definitely prove to be your partner for long time.As all employee data is kept in a centralized place with optimum accuracy, HR managers can easily create reports at the end of open enrollment period to analyze various aspects and calculating things like total costs, estimated claims, etc. The ben admin solution provides a bird-eye view of entire employees’ data so that proper strategies and planning can be done for future endeavors.Having an efficient Senior Strategic Manager at TeemWurk. Key strategist, helping our groups and partners find a better way to manage all stages of the benefits lifecycleTeemWurk provides integrated solutions and services such as Employee Benefits Enrollments and Administration, HR Solutions  Payroll Software.

It’s funny. Facebook has spent tons of resources to make your Newsfeed what? Today I was at the grocery store. I was about to grab my phone. Then I thought, “No.” There are loafs of bread in front of me while I wait at Whole Foods for a sandwich to be made. These loafs of bread are otherwise incredibly uninteresting. And to the rest of the world, especially on the Internet, it would be irrelevant.“Why is Rye bread dark? What does Rye taste like again? Wonder if I should pull an audible and ask for a different type of bread in this amazing sandwich I’m about to have.” And so on.But hey, it was right in front of me. It was the thing directly in sight. Sourdough. Rye. You name it. But we fight so hard to build them on the Internet and in most cases, suffer without 100% quality of each of these properties — tons of stuff on Facebook is “irrelevant” for me. Many of my chat apps have some type of lag, or at least, offline limitation. (I, for one, have never had a “Error: Your message could not be sent” message in a real-life conversation. Maybe I have seen this during some Halloween here in Silicon Valley).And so, great, we have gotten better and better at technology, and more able to “mirror” real life in certain respects like real-time, but also break through to non “mirror” things like live video from anywhere in the world, or hearing what the President of Argentina thinks about something via Twitter.So then, a most fundamental and interesting question becomes… A brief Devil’s Advocate interlude — so far I have limited the definition of the “real world” to the physical surroundings I may see and experience. What about what’s in my mind? Taking a moment to think about my parents and how to make their lives better. Thinking about how to make my company better. Working through some personal reflection of other sorts. But on the other hand, the Internet does in fact offer a whole new world of possibilities. Often we don’t take advantage of those grand possibilities of say, learning something new, or helping someone in need. We may just scroll through feeds and give Likes to undeserving photographs. ceo @ do (

Technology Geek vs Geek MotherOne Day the Mother went to her Son with a serious question in her mind and asked him in a firm voiceHe just replied to her question with a smile on his face sayingMy Dream Girl qualitiesFinnallyyyyyyyyyy………….Mom : Sorry Son …….

Within my school, time spent in the ‘Language Lab’, a classroom with thirty computers designed to enhance language learning, is restricted to 40 minutes every fortnight for the first three years of school, and non-existent in the subsequent five years.There have been many studies, researching the benefit of technology in the classroom, over a wide variety of subjects and ages, with one study detailing their results; “According to the analysis conducted with the mean results of the performance of students, the use of educational technology had a positive effect on their performance, and the impact of the use of technology can be seen in the students’ progress results.” (Looking at second language learning specifically, this theory is supported further, with Dr. S. Mei Lin’s study into technology use in second language writing, finding that, I believe the fear that human teachers and technology are mutually exclusive stems out of ignorance and a lack of knowledge — technology is still viewed by many as a foreign entity and a danger to humanity, like something out of James Cameron’s masterpiece, My favourite use of technology in school was during my first year of Physics at my secondary school, where I was introduced to a bridge building simulator, “From this image above, it is impossible to tell whether the game shown is a free-roaming RPG, or an educational language-learning game. In this case, it is both. The tag line for the game encompasses this idea completely; “The action-adventure video game to learn English.” Students are introduced to a familiar, accessible platform of the free-roaming RPG, and this base is used as a medium through which the learning of English is made possible. The general disparity between in-classroom and out-of-classroom technology is no longer an issue, and as a result of this, students are able to use the game to its full capacity.There is surely nothing worse for a teacher than being exposed by a student as unable to use the technology available, placing them in a position of stress and making them feel incompetent. Teachers, as humans, like to be in control, and with the knowledge of technology in hand, they can combine exciting new teaching methods with the necessary authority needed to teach a rowdy bunch of students.There can be little doubt that technology is the future of education, as well as many other elements of society. It is important at this point, however, while the technology is still in its infancy with regards to its role in education, that it is integrated with care and knowledge, so that a generation isn’t left behind.Social Behaviour and Personality: Impact of use of technology in Mathematics lessons on student achievement and attitudes, R. Eyyam, H. Yaratan.Reading Improvement: Impacts of online technology use in second language writing, Dr. S. M. Lin, Dr. P. GriffithEl juego de aventura para aprender inglés ¡Ya en Android y iOS! The adventure game for language learning. Download now! #Edtech

I have long been a technology enthusiast, and throughout my twenty-one years of life I have used most everything: Windows 3–10, Mac OS 9 — OS X, Linux Mint, Ubuntu, Fedora, OpenSUSE, Arch Linux, Gentoo, Chrome OS, Windows Phone, Android, iOS, and even the good old ZX Spectrum. I guess you could say that technology has remained one of my truest passions since I was very young, along with music, literature, fine art, and the like.As a secondary school student and musician, I was suckered in to the world of Macintosh by clever advertising and assurances of the benefits that the operating system could offer me. I bought into it all. As a young man of just sixteen, I saved up the £1,000 to buy myself a Macbook Pro — so assured was I that this would be the only machine I would ever need to own. My experience however, was not altogether positive. The machine became sluggish after a very short amount of time and the specifications could not satiate my need for more power. Privacy, however, was not a concern I had at the time.I started getting into security and privacy when I started hanging around the Computer Science students at my university. One such student — my old room-mate — was very into the open-source community and he introduced me to the world of Linux and the Arch repositories. Through him, I started to learn just how much of what I use and access every day really does not belong to me in any meaningful sense. When the Snowden leaks happened, my concern over this was only deepened.The leaks about the NSA and in particular their sister agency GCHQ was shocking to many. The sheer amount of metadata that is collected at any one time on any one person is far more than should ever be permitted by any government without due cause for suspicion. Worse than all that, though, was how much of it was being conducted through agencies in whom I had entrusted my digital life. I have long been a fan of Google and its services; I use Windows as my daily driver; and many other companies hold details of my life and activities. Why did I put my trust in these companies? Well, because I believed that I was giving them permission to use my information to improve services that I used, to target adverts to me in order to keep their revenues afloat. What I could not come to terms with was just how dishonest they had been about handing over my data to not only my own government, but foreign ones too. It is unacceptable to say the least, and monstrous to say the most.The problem, however, comes from the attitude of the public towards these issues. There is a certain blunt apathy amongst many people I know. When the news broke, people tutted at their newspapers and posted things like “wow” on Facebook, Twitter, and the like. A few months later, however, and nothing much has changed. The NSA still insists on backdooring companies, and the public has very little to say about it. The argument I hear most often is “well, if they want to look in on my boring life, that’s fine. If they want to access my messages/e-mails/Skype calls etc. then they’re very welcome to trawl through that.” I am honestly stunned by how many people hold this same view. But, in fairness, I understand where it comes from.These days, technology is no longer just something that is tinkered with by the strange, quiet kid in the back of the classroom to whom nobody talks: it is an absolute life necessity. We bank online, communicate online, shop online, read the news online… pretty much everything we do is done through a web browser or a smartphone. However, the vast majority of people really arent interested in spending too much time working with computers. If you tell somebody that they can reduce the amount of private information they share by encrypting their communications with PGP and OTR, installing Arch Linux manually, and ensuring that they only access websites with an HTTPS connection run by communities, they are going to tell you that it’s far more effort than they want to put in. Most people want only to have all of the difficult bits taken out so that they can enjoy the end product. They don’t care about cookies being stored on their computers, or government agencies being able to access their communications and whereabouts in real time — they simply want to check their tweets and be done with it.This is where the idea of a cost:benefit ratio comes in. People are, by their very nature, lazy when it comes to things in which they are not interested. Certainly, an open-source enthusiast would be quick to demonise companies like Microsoft and Apple in favour of a community run effort such as GNU/Linux (I note here also that the original author is a user of Ubuntu Linux, a distribution that came under heavy fire in 2012 for sending unencrypted data to Amazon through the Unity search bar, but I digress.) However, the average consumer just doesnt want to put in the time or the effort. They want the convenience and seem to be willing to pay the price that is privacy.It seems that unless there is a real-world consequence to this breach of privacy — such as a hacker stealing bank details or the defamation of a social media profile — people are willing to allow it in order to simply let their life continue without having to worry too much. The same is evident of people’s willingness to walk around casually in the centre of cities littered with CCTV cameras. Some people even believe that these things are in place for our own good, and are all too ready to attack anybody who prefers to encrypt and secure their data as being “suspicious”. Such is the climate of the digital world right now. As humans are wont to do, people try to keep up the The answer, of course, is tangibility. Data is intangible. People can log on to their computer, check their email, and then walk away and forget about it. But one cannot forget so easily about things that are physically present. Because of this, people place much less weight on their online data and are willing to sacrifice it for the sake of keeping things simple. The solution, therefore, is to somehow make people realise that their online life is just as important and has just as much impact as their life away from keyboard. The apathy has to stop.Mr. Gillmor’s article is extremely encouraging. If more people can do as he has and make the effort to incentivise the practice of true security and respect of the individual by leaving the big companies in favour of community tools, then we will be off to a very good start. However, the fault does not lie with the companies as much as it does with the mentality of the consumers. Companies are as companies do: they are a collective of people trying to get very rich. They don’t care how necessarily, they just want to be rich. Nothing has changed in that regard, and it never will. What has, can, and must change is the consumer mentality. People need to snap out of the mentality that they shouldnt have to work for themselves. They need to start caring about their data. People need to break the cycle of apathy that has so ensnared them in recent years and realise that if we don’t do something soon, things are only going to get worse. Only with this shift in consumer ethos will companies change their business practices to comply with a more transparent and respectful treatment of their clientèle.Japanese Mythology postgraduate student and technology enthusiast

How Technology Will Impact the Future of Travel in 2015The way technology has changed the world economy is unquestionable at one place and highly appreciable at the other, but Travel industry has grown exponentially in the recent years and sets a perfect example of balance of innovation and production. Even savvy travelers were unaware of the fact that what type of hotel he/she would land into further making the industry more on trust grounds. This clearly infers to the fact that only trust factors and compatibility trail were the only two features that would enable the tourist to go to a specific agent.Next time a good business advice to someone who is inclined to establish his/her business would be to not open a travel agency but a Travelling is a big stress reliever and getting the opportunity to see the world is reinvigorating. Exploring the world just got so easier and profitable. The best job would be of an international guide or traveler whose bread and butter depend on travelling, how great that would be.QuadLabs is a premier travel technology specialist with a focus on delivering world class products to the travel industry.

One of the first ever online journalists for the BBC is a close colleague of mine. These days, you’d say he was the most experienced member of the team.But back in the 90s, when the BBC was still finding itself online, it was decided that his job would be “internet correspondent”.Internet correspondent! The very notion that one such role could encapsulate all that was going on in this brave new world now seems hideously naive — but I’m told at the time it was met with the odd scoff in the newsroom.“Can you believe it?” they’d chatter, “they’ve got someone who’s just looking at the internet!”Fast forward a few more years, to 2005, and another colleague of mine found himself in a similar situation. Tasked with chipping in with the BBC’s live election coverage, his role was to give a run-down on what chatter was taking place online.It was given a fairly short shrift — it really was all meaningless waffle, back then. The hardened hacks shared the same opinion — who cared about what some idiots on the internet had to say?Of course, the next general election had no such role (Tweeting, blogging, Facebooking… politics wasn’t just talked about on the internet, it Most of my Yet while my personal capacity to tell technology stories in the past year has diversified, I’ve noticed something: my beat is rapidly disappearing.We don’t need someone “watching the internet” during elections anymore, that’s clear. But we’re also now approaching a point where the most pressing — and let’s face it, interesting — technology stories shouldn’t be thought of as technology stories at all.Case in point: the Edward Snowden revelations. A story broken, not by a technology writer, but by a civil rights specialist with a background in law.Which makes a lot of sense. Snowden is a story about democracy, a political crisis, a threat to our human rights. It’s a debate about civil liberties, what it means to be “safe” from terrorism, and the ethics of whistleblowing.That it was first reported by Glenn Greenwald, and not one of the literally thousands of tech journalists out there covering the beat day-in, day-out, shows that the real technology stories are not to be found within every sneeze and burp from Apple and friends.Let’s look at a more recent example: the rushed UK data law. A bill that dictates how the UK government — and other selected organisations — can access data on what we do with technology when we communicate.That, from the offset, was a political story, There’s heaps more. The porn filter debate (again, a politics story, thanks to posturing from politicians who have called for a non-solution solution); tax avoidance from some of the big guns like Amazon (a story of economics, and ethics); and indeed, the fluctuating doomed/dominant narrative of Apple which, you could say, might be best examined by a fashion columnist — since that’s what really matters anyway.All important technology stories, but better suited to other beats.So what do we do about it?Well — when I was studying for my A Levels (for the non-Brits: that’s around 17-18 years old), I had my career set on going “into IT”, as they say, to do some nondescript, soul-sucking desk job.I had a flair for computing, apparently, and I should make the most of it. But I soon realised that it’s utterly pointless to learn how to use a computer just so you know how to use a computer. Far better to learn how to use a computer so you can go on and do something exciting with it.And that’s pretty much how I feel about technology journalism today.What must die out, and quickly, is the reporting of things merely because they happened via some kind of technology, with the tech as its focus.After all, when the president makes a phone call, what’s the story? The content of the conversation, or the fact he’s using a telephone?If technology journalists are to survive, we need to divide firmly into two camps, never to be reunited.The geekiest aspects — new chips, RD, and yes, start-ups — need to move back into the trade press.It means sites like The Verge need to figure out what it is for — reporting every concocted venture capital investment, or being the first draft of our digital history? Given the quality of some of its reporters, I hope the focus is on the latter.The technology journalists who don’t want the geeky path need to step up to the plate and start tackling the important stories involving how technology is changing our lives.Crime, lifestyle, business, sport, health, whatever. Y’know, Regardless of what camp you’re in, one thing is quite clear: we need to grow up, and move beyond covering the minutiae of an industry that treats the journalists that report on it like puppets.We need to loosen our dependence on “exclusives” that are almost always nothing more than carefully-coordinated PR efforts for which we regularly fall for hook, line and sinker.Because let’s face it — if you think you’re sticking it to Apple by publishing those “leaked” pictures of the “new” iPhone, get real.Let’s stop wasting time — and lining pockets — with inconsequential, meaningless puff that is serving nobody, not least our audience.Technology reporter for the BBC. Loves the news like Ron Burgundy loves San Diego. Story? 

In 1941, the US Navy commissioned the husband-and-wife design team of Charles and Ray Eames to design a lightweight splint for wounded soldiers to get them out of the field more safely. Metal splints of that period weren’t secure enough to hold the leg still, causing unnecessary death from gangrene or shock, blood loss, and so on.The Eameses had been working on techniques to mold and bend plywood, and they were able to come up with this splint design — conforming to the body without a lot of extra joints and parts. The wood design became a secure, lightweight, nest-able solution, and they produced more than 150,000 such splints for the Navy.Over the next decade, the Eameses would go on to refine their wood-molding process to create both sculpture and functional design pieces, most notably, this celebrated chair:It’s easy to assume that such innovation would more often happen in reverse: that a generalized design solution would “trickle down” to the narrow confines of adaptive and assistive aids. But, as Pullin points out, this example suggests that disability concerns are in fact an overlooked source of rich aesthetic ideas, with relevance and impact for design far beyond their immediate starting point.More than that, I think this story demonstrates why everyone should pay more attention to matters of disability.You might imagine that “disability studies” is just one more category of identity research that’s been created primarily for political advocacy, interesting only to those directly affected by issues of accessibility, accommodation, or special rights. But “disabled-ness” is another matter altogether. There are at least two big reasons why disability concerns are everyone’s concerns.First, it’s a false divide to make a we/them: either able-minded, able-bodied, or disabled. After all, how cultures define, think about, and treat those who currently have marked disabilities is how all its future citizens may well be perceived if Second, in many cultures — and certainly in the US — a pervasive, near-obsession with averages and statistical norms about bodies and capacities has become a naturalized form of describing both individuals and populations. But this way of measuring people and populations is historically very recent, and worth reconsidering.Disability studies scholar You all know the bell curve, of course.It’s the source of all talk about how individuals measure up, relative to others. In case you doubt this obsession, I invite you to witness the conversation among parents of young children: It’s all percentiles, and milestones, and being “ahead of the curve” with respect to each month of a child’s development. Again, Davis reminds us that this is a Of course, as Davis writes, “It’s too easy to say, ‘We’re all disabled.’” But a challenge remains: to interrupt cultural assumptions in powerful, creative ways — and to alter wider collective thinking about one’s own individual dependence, independence, and that of others.So how might designers and artists engage these myths about what’s normal, and make more visible, critical, and expansive technologies?Well — it’s worth saying again: Making a persistent, overt distinction about “assistive tech” embodies the second-tier do-gooderism and banality that still dominate design work targeted toward “special needs.” “Assistive technology” implies a separate species of tools designed exclusively for those people with a rather narrow set of diagnostic “impairments” — impairments, in other words, that have been culturally designated as needing special attention, as being particularly, grossly abnormal. But are you Undoing the distinctions between design for disability and design in general yields a couple of benefits: It brings new attention to technologies that are profound in their use and impact on physical and political accessibility. The advanced It also brings a productive uncertainty and a powerful friction to the task of designing technologies of all kinds. Whether you’re designing for an established need or seeking an application for a technical novelty, you might take more time before confidently assigning it to a user, or to deciding, up front, with confidence, Instead of labeling some technologies and not others as assistive, let’s start like this: We’re all getting all kinds of help from the things we make. All kinds of help, all the time, for our many material and social and educational and political needs. Private needs and public ones. No one is exempt. In the name of good friction, then, I want to suggest some possible dispositions for designers and artists taking a look at ability and disability.The Victoria  Albert museum’s 2006 exhibit, “The Beauty of Inner Space,” a design by Ross Lovegrove, has more in common with jewelry than medical gear. His proposal would have this aid amplify and mute sounds at the user’s discretion — highlighting sounds you In other words, one strand of design might be devoted to making hearing aids as discreet as possible — to hide its function from view. But another round of questions becomes more interesting altogether: What might a hearing aid also do — or do instead — that’s never even been considered?(See more hearing aids in the exhibition covered by Researchers at Georgia Tech re-imagined wheelchair navigation for quadriplegic users — with a tongue driver. It’s a wireless device that allows those who have high-level spinal cord injuries, and therefore little or no limb movement, to operate computers and their own electric wheelchairs.Placing the controls in headsets, Instead of I’m as much a fan of the exoskeletons and bionic limbs as the next person. But there are far more subtle changes for bodies over the lifespan for the designer also to address. Some of the most interesting ideas pose ways to “edit” environments that already exist, to accommodate more bodies more of the time.The So many medical technologies for treatment are just that: medicalized. They operate with the assumption that a change in ability is primarily a biological condition, without thought for the broader ways the built environment can expand and shift to welcome multiple kinds of bodies and experiences.Grandin was a close observer of cattle on ranches growing up, and she noticed the common use of a “squeeze chute” — a tight chamber that would hold a cow still for inoculation. The deep pressure had a calming effect on the animals.Watching this technology, Grandin intuited her Artist and MIT professor What happens when a tool used for therapeutic reasons After her retirement, it wasn’t that Despina needed a chair or adaptive machine to allow her to sew in her elder years; it was that she missed the togetherness of colleagues. So Vanis created This project is about productive, radical constraints: it narrows the design question to a single user, but it suggests a much wider frame for thinking about the “future of work” in all its crucial qualitative senses.The tricky part with popular prosthetic design — Yes — of course — some users want discreet tools! But others roundly reject the notion that all bodies should conform to some standardized or performative ideal. This kind of variability and disagreement should also be a productive friction for the designer. Once freed from thinking in terms of creating tools for disability, designers can create personal objects that disrupt our notions of dependence and autonomy.The Questions of utility matter: Does it work efficiently? Is its power maximized? Is it user-friendly? Can it be mass produced, affordably? But questions outside utilitarian concerns also matter.Whether Let’s hope for objects that raise and suspend questions, and employ them alongside objects designed to solve problems. Then we can have a complex public conversation about needs and desires for interdependence. And about tools that provide assistance to every human body.Follow Backchannel: art / adaptive technology / prosthetics / high-low tech / collaborative research / ablersite.org / Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

A recent I started by working in two big companies, Xerox (at There are similar progressions for other types of engineering as well. Typically, there’s a parallel track for management that diverges at some point, and leads to positions such as:In both cases, you’re “working your way up” (my list is upside down), the way that people in the U.S. have thought about career advancement since at least WWII.After living and working in both worlds, I now understand that the Silicon Valley startup career path looks a little different:Here’s the key difference: In the traditional path, your career success is defined mostly by your individual advancement. In the Silicon Valley path, however, you may have different positions at each company, depending on what you like to do, but your career success, especially in financial terms, will likely be dominated by the overall success of the companies. Ask any of the first 1,000 employees at Google, no matter what their title. Therefore, it’s vitally important for you to work with the people who are most likely to succeed, and maximize the opportunities for doing so. If you work at Company B with an outstanding team, but the concept didn’t quite make it, your chances at Company D will be much better if you can work with some of them again.Furthermore, your opportunities at subsequent companies will come from the people at the previous ones. Otherwise, your fate is in the hands of recruiters and HR departments. If the all-star team from Company B is reassembling for another try, you want them to be thinking of you.This can also apply to projects—within companies, or open-source, for example. Even if you’re not switching companies, look for projects with great people. I certainly met some at both PARC and HP Labs, and did end up working with some of them later on. I just wish I had known how important that was going to be.Do everything you can to work with great people.Go where the great people are. (They may not be where you think.)If there aren’t great people where you are, leave.Your future depends on it.VP Engineering Building, curating, and leading great teams of people to do extraordinary things

