When thinking of User Experience, we often think of a simple, beautiful, and easy to use feature-set of a product, that makes the user’s life easier. But as a matter of fact, features are merely a small, fragile part of the product. They are only a few of many thinkable solutions for a user’s problem the product tries to solve. Thinking in products means thinking in specific user’s problems, in jobs to be done, in goals, and in revenues.The core user experience is not a set of features; in fact, it is the job users hire the product for. Uber’s core user experience is to get a taxi easily at any time. The countdown, displaying when exactly the taxi will arrive, is a suitable feature that expands this experience. But Uber’s product works regardless of this feature. The countdown, on the other hand, cannot live without the product (the certainty to get a taxi easily at any time). There is a one-way interrelationship between feature and product: Features don’t work without the product. This is why designers should think in products first.A product has a core user experience, which is basically the reason the product exists. It fulfills a need or solves a problem people have. By that, it becomes meaningful and provides a certain value. If the problem is non-existant, or the solution doesn’t fit to the problem, the product becomes meaningless and people won’t use the product; which in turn leads to the downfall of the product. Wrong solutions can be fixed, but non-existant problems aren’t adjustable at all. So, how can we be sure to tackle a real problem? Alas, we can‘t be 100% sure, but we can minimize the risk a lot by observing and talking to people. Hence, uncovering the problem and building solutions customers really want.Clay Christensen, for instance, once tried to improve the sales of milkshakes. He tried to make them sweeter, offered them in different tastes, and slightly increased the size of the cups. Nothing worked out, until he started observing the customers who bought milkshakes. He found out that the job the customers hired the milkshake for was in fact to make their morning car ride to work less boring. The big benefit a milkshake has is that it is a thick drink that lasts longer than any other drink and stuffs the stomach. This was the real problem; the customers had no idea about it. In the end Christensen came up with the solution to make the milkshake even thicker, which led to an increase in sales numbers. Thinking in products helps building successful features. By defining the problems the product tackles, it answers the question “why do we build this product?”. Defining the target audience “who has these problems?” and defining the solution “how are we doing this?” will give enough guidance to create a new feature. Setting up a goal will help to measure the success of this feature.Products become meaningful when the provided solution fits the uncovered problem. This solution describes the way how a problem will be solved. Thus, the problem-solution-fit defines the core user experience of a product. The concrete features are extending this experience and support the core experience, but they cannot replace it. Interaction Design and Visual Design can make a product beautiful, easy-to-use, delightful or make it stand out in the competition, though it can’t make the product meaningful. This is why a proper problem-solution-fit is so critical for the success of a product.When thinking in products, UX designers should be able to answer the following questions first: What problem do we solve? (User problem). For whom are we doing this? (Target audience). Why are we doing this? (Vision). How are we doing this (Strategy) and what do we want to achieve? (Goals). Only then it makes sense to think about what exactly we are doing (Features).Thinking in products gives designers the advantage of building the right features for the right people. It helps understanding the user experience of a product as a whole; not purely as Interaction- and Visual- Design of features. It makes sure designers tackle real user problems and herewith reduce the risk of building something nobody wants. It gives the power to make the right decisions whenever it comes to building features.Product Thinking enables UX designers to ask the right questions, to build the right features and to communicate with stakeholders more efficiently. It enables designers to say „no“ and to be hesitant before adding new features. Whenever a new feature is requested or someone has an idea for a new product, designers are able to ask the right questions, before drawing wireframes or crafting fancy layouts: “Does it fit into the product?”–“Does it serve a real user problem?” –“Do people want or need it?–Let’s find out first!” This will keep the product slim and effective.Thinking in products makes sure designers build the right features for the right people and tackle real problems people have. It empowers to make the right decisions and is the foundation of building successful products users want. Product Thinking establishes a fruitful relationship between Product Management and UX Design and therefore leads to stronger products. This is why Product Thinking is going to be the next big thing in UX Design.UX • Product  Interaction Designer at XING.

This recommended reading list is for anyone who wants to learn or deepen their knowledge in the disciplines of The list is broad and includes books that exemplify design thinking, processes, methods, principles and best practices. Many of the books on this list are over 20 years old and yet they are still relevant more than ever.Each book has influenced my perspective, made an impression and helped me to advance my craft. They have shaped the designer I am today, and inspire the designer I will be tomorrow.There’s not a day where I don’t find myself thinking and applying the ideas from these books. I hope that you too, can extract the same value.I find it helpful to choose what to read based on what’s relevant at the time. Applying what you’re reading, as you’re Some old, some new. All important reading, in no particular order.Reading books is only a partial source of my inspiration and learning. I also frequently read blogs and articles. I highly recommend staying connected to these sources of great thought leadership:User Experience Designer with a perpetual love for dreaming aloud, thinking in systems and thoughtful making. Forever trying to define the line.a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

Before I became a UX designer, I thought I wanted to be a title sequence designer. I took a course at Carnegie Mellon taught by Dan Boyarski called Time, Motion, and Communication. It was all about kinetic typography, rhythm, color, and movement. Dan used to describe every element on screen as if it were an actor on a stage — a character that we were directing, giving it behavior and personality.We would constantly revisit this sequence, giving reason to why a character was there and what its role was. Introducing time and motion changed everything for me, because what I realized was that it gave you Fast forward to a few years later: I’ve created hundreds of wireframes and thousands of annotations that describe how things work and fit together. Things like: The more wireframes I made, the more I started to realize that everything I had once learned about motion design was completely relevant to our roles as UX and visual designers. As I started to pay more attention to everything I engaged with day to day, I realized that the most If we’re going to talk about motion and start somewhere, it’s with Disney. Disney developed The biggest thing to take away here is that our job as UX and visual designers is not just to make things functional and follow best practices. We’re also trying to make these experiences enjoyable and, most of all, tell a story through experience sequences. The more I paid attention to how motion was applied in digital and the techniques that were being used, the more I started to see a pattern. I arrived at these 5 principles, which I feel address the most important communication points in UX, solve the gaps between extreme states, and overall create a more polished experience. Getting these details right is important because it influences people’s perception and trust in your product, which overall creates a more positive experience and enjoyable experience.Feedback helps demonstrate the result of a user’s interaction, whether or not it was successful, and why. It’s often used to show if something is correct or incorrect, if something is loading, if you’re making progress, or simply when you are making selections. Feedback is important because it builds trust with your users and it’s really satisfying and delightful for users to see! It helps add a tactile element to interactions because it makes you forget you may just be tapping a piece of glass and instead makes you feel like you’re interacting with real elements on the screen. It’s nice to feel like things are reacting to what you’re doing. When you think of designing for Feedback, it’s important to work on making it So, what can Disney teach us here? He illustrated an example of Beast getting frustrated with Belle when she said she wasn’t going to dinner. Beast’s face stretched up and his eyes widened, making him look surprised. Then his face squashed down and his brows looked angry. An audience doesn’t even notice the subtleties of what’s happening because it happens so fast, but it makes the end result feel like a jolt and completely obvious.Feedforward: it’s a form of hinting. It’s visual affordance. It helps convey to users what possible interactions are and what to expect so that they better understand how things work and fit together. Feedforward nudges users through the correct sequence of actions so that they can avoid confusion and better accomplish your goals. It really helps prepare people for what’s about to happen and what to do, hinting at things like, Disney’s principle of In order to convey this principle, Glen first illustrated a very simple sequence of Mickey reaching across a table to pick up a ball. In the first drawing, his hand was close to him and Mickey was eyeing the ball across the table. In the next drawing, Mickey’s hand was already on the ball. It’s such a simple gesture, that’s all you think you’d need to illustrate, right? The downfall here is that there is no enjoyment for the audience; before they know it, an action is completed. They may not have been ready for what you were about to do, even if it seemed so obvious when you were illustrating it. Taking the time to build anticipation by adding in an extra frame with Mickey’s hand wide open, stretching across table becomes a Another example of Anticipation that Glen shared was a scene in Duet where Tosh was climbing down the tree. Initially, Glen just had Tosh hop off. He soon realized, however, that everyone had missed it because it happened too quickly. “You never want your audience behind you,” Glen described. He redrew this scene and had Tosh first look back at Mia, then turn his torso back forward to go down the tree. That subtle cue made all the difference in the world and helped the audience naturally follow where Tosh was going to go next.Spatial Awareness helps orient users with their environment and clarify the relationships between every element. If you think about it, there are essentially unlimited possibilities to the fictional, digital environments you are creating. Every experience you make has a unique lay of the land… elements may “live” behind the screen, to the left or right, pinched in-between, in a drawer… anything your little designer heart desires. Glen often talked about how the placement of a character in a scene can create expectation. For example, if a character is far left, the open space to the right creates want, “and when you have want, you have something to work with.” It creates an intensity, as if something is about to click with the audience.There is a beautiful sequence in Duet where Mia jumps into a pond, swims and flips, then exits the water and does a cartwheel. Glen described the scene as having a “magnetic power” which responded to what Mia was doing and push her forward. For example, when she first hits the water there is a major change — the bubbles are like an explosion around her. He said, “You can’t change total environments without some kind of impact.” These bubbles help tell you where she’s been, and the fish that then surround her tell the audience where she is going next. It’s as if they are squeezing her to the next frame. What I love about this sequence is how the logic to the environment makes it feel like there is a connected thread from frame to frame, which guides the audience’s attention.User Focus guides your user’s attention and clarifies change states. It’s all about controlling the transitions of hierarchy at each moment in time. It puts emphasis on the right elements depending on what the objective is. There may be multiple layers of elements working together to support that action. It may not always be as simple as bringing one element to the foreground when it’s need… maybe the background reacts too. It could fade a little or darken in order to give more prominence to the focus. You’ll often see a technique like the use of contextual controls — these important little actions you always want to have on hand — and you know they’re there — but you don’t necessarily have to see them all the time. They only come into focus the second you call for them.User Focus helps bring Clarity to every objective in your experience. “At Disney, I kept hearing about the plausible impossible,” Glen would say. There were moments were you could make someone believe something that may seem ridiculously crazy and they don’t question it. For example, in I often tell people to think of this the same way we treat copy guidelines. Every project where we think about, Think about all of the apps, sites, and experiences you use day to day and why you keep using them. Often there are dozens of other apps out there that can do the same exact thing and accomplish the same tasks. They might all have a Freddie Moore was an animator at Disney who was really responsible for creating the “look and feel” of Disney, Glen described. Before he came along, Mickey was “just a circle.” It wasn’t the Mickey we know today. Freddie started creating a relationship between every element in his characters. Frank Thomas and Ollie Johnston would often tell the animators, “Every line relates to another line.” When drawing Mickey, everything would follow a theme. You would start with the circle of Mickey’s head, then draw his nose so it pointed up and followed the curve of his head. His eyes came closer to the nose and relate to it, the followed by his eyebrows and mouth — which would come up and push against his cheek. Suddenly there was something about Mickey that you were drawn to. Mickey had the power to pull an audience in because he had appeal. Glen has this belief that every character already exists before you draw them. When you get it right, you recognize them and you are the one who brings the character into the world. When you have Appeal, you find those moments and it’s a beautiful thing when it all comes together.These 5 principles are how you captivate your audience and how they interact with your story. It’s your responsibility to craft an experience sequence that is realistic and emotional, connecting all the keyframes in your work. This is where we start to solve for the missing pieces and define the characters in our work. But the characters we’re designing for aren’t just the ones on screen — we’re also designing for the human element — our main character is our user.Whether it’s films, apps, sites, or books….no matter the context, the medium, the environment, Designing for motion may be something new and unfamiliar, but we’ve all experienced these moments where you step into a new problem and are at a loss on how to solve it. Glen even shared how designing for Last year I had a simple goal: give a design talk on a topic I was interested in. It was as simple as that. Motion design is a topic I’ve always been interested in and find to be more and more relevant to what we’re doing today as UX and visual designers, so I put together a talk during an Many of the examples in this article were curated by Alli Dryer, check out her site to see dozens of great examples of motion in practice.other favorites:CMU Design // former varsity swimmer now marathon runner // senior experience designer 

Demand for UX designers is rapidly growing. Although the term “User Experience” has been used already in the ‘90s by Donald Norman it is stillPolish company UXPin not only launched one of the most popular tools for prototyping, but also looks after designers providing free ebooks about UX, information architecture, flat design, mobile typography, usability testing, responsive design and so on. Cool e-books available online absolutely for free. Useful links, examples and case studies. And those covers!On this popular learning platform you will find more than 60 coursesA site devoted entirely to User Experience. You will find articles, sources (books, podcasts, courses, conferences, techniques, tools, etc.) and a forum where you can exchange thoughts and opinions with other UX designers.UX Magazine focuses on different aspects of User Experience design: emotions, usability, empathy and storytelling. You will also find a list of the most important international UX events and jobs.On this Tumblr blog each week there’s two notes about the process of designing for people.Uxeria allows you to remotely test usability of apps and websites. On Uxeria’s blog you will find content about usability, 31 Lessons from Joel Marsch about principles of UX design.Erik Flowers, Principal Service Experience Designer talks about differences between User Experience and User Interface. More posts Daily news (2 links, to be precise) from UX World.A helpful UX checklist for analyzing the specific parts of the projects and estimate its cost.A classic from Donald Norman about cognitive functions and emotions. It answers the questions why we love or hate everyday things and why cheap wine tastes better served in a nice glass. Prologue can be found Steve Krug’s guide helps to understand the rules of designing intuitive navigation and information design. Witty, commonsensical and extremely practical book — one of the most popular and most recommended works on the subject of UX.Dan Suffer’a book reveals secrets of interaction design. You will learn how to create design strategy that differentiate your product from the competition, how to.The book focuses on designing responsively and finding answers...Alan Cooper’s book is about designing interactions: methodologies, designing for mobile devices, responsiveness, sprinkled with numerous examples.The book focuses on the process of UX and not technology that constantly changes. Smart Things discusses methods, compromises and challenges of design in a commercial environment along with many case studies.The book about design thinking and UX design.Book published in 2013 focuses on improving methods of User Experience, teamwork including clients to ongoing project...You can also check facebook group: We develop modern products for modern people.| Sharing our ideas and experiences

Have you ever asked yourself what UX is all about? It’s about learning from mistakes. You can build a design around the idea of turning bad experiences into good ones.We tend to follow the core principles of UX design, but sometimes they slip designers’ minds, and it leads to mistakes that are becoming an integral part of most projects. To locate these errors, I reached out with the question ‘What one UX mistake on websites drives you crazy?’ to the following UX experts in the field: Here is the list of The creator of a hilarious website Life shows it still happens. Hamburgers and kebabs in mobile are the Jessie and James of UX design — prevalent and annoying. Are you dizzy when you browse the web? I sure am. The growing abundance of clickbaiting pagination makes many They exist to get more clicks and the page views. A terribly cheap way of exploiting your users. If you need stats telling you why carousels are bad for your website, According to Remove image sliders, carousels, and clickbaiting pagination.Many a time upon entering a webpage was I greeted with a lovely message on my phone that I need to Bad performance ain’t gonna receive no applause, says Brad Frost. It all narrows down to how fast we can operate the website. High page loading times yield devastating results. Since we rely heavily on the Internet nowadays, reading is an essential activity. Because of that, rules and guidelines were created in order to make that task as pleasurable as possible — especially since people scan instead of reading.Some do employ them properly, but some forget that reading content should be If you want to go in-depth with optimizing your text, have a look at this amazing piece from UX Movement shows how I have no idea why so many websites neglect web forms and leave them completely not optimized when their business heavily relies on them. You work in eCommerce? Imagine having bad order and delivery forms — your conversion rates are going to hit the ground so hard your business will lose its balance.Websites tend to lie to you that you need to undergo a “quick” registration process that will take only a minute, and 15 minutes later you still are trying to enter the right CAPTCHA at the end. Don’t forget about re-entering your password every time, because it resets for security purposes.There is one thing — check out this website focused on If you are desperate to find out whether your forms are Registering is a bane of many users. Not only registering should be quick and easy —Do I hear faint “But it follows the 3-clicks principle…” in the background? Of course, the above is related to the browsing experience in general, but both the signing in and the general browsing face the same issue — being too strenuous for users. There are two solutions:Generally, simplify it.That does sound like a good principle, right? Let’s see the final point then:Complexity is The philosophy of Thanks to reaching out to UX experts, we could gather what actually bugs people on everyday basis. Some of abovementioned points appear to be painstakingly obvious — the question is That is a Never get used to bad experiences. Do your best to deliver and demand the most pleasant UX possible. Do it for both yourself and for others.PS. Published in-Energetic young blogger with a passion for UX, design, content marketing, chillwave music, and pizza. Writes at UsabilityTools Blog.Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

By In 2011 In the field of UX it’s similar but different. We’re trying to understand our users’ stories; we then craft a new one for them that (ideally) makes them happier and makes their lives easier. As I thought about this I saw that the 22 rules Emma had come up with could almost be applicable to the field of UX.So I made some minor changes to see if I could adapt them.Successful UX is about making assumptions and then testing to validate. We do this through user research, user stories and prototyping. The key is to define assumptions, test, refine, repeat. This typically yields better outcomes than spending six months working on a ‘ta-da!’ piece. After all, your UX process is what smart employers will be looking for, as noted in this This is basic but something we are all tempted to forget. It can be exciting when you’re in Photoshop fueled by the latest new interfaces you’ve seen by designing the most beautiful and exciting feature set ever created. But we know this isn’t always what excites our users or makes them happy. Keep your users in focus before you start designing — otherwise you’ll get carried away and fall into the trap of being attached to something you’ve invested too much time in.It’s easy to fall into the trap of wanting to create a sense of consistency within a product — it’s something we cling to, a basic principle that we feel will make things ‘easy’. I see this a lot — many people new to experience design focus on this idea of ‘consistency’ as it sounds safe and makes them feel comfortable.In reality, consistency only works at a specific level and doesn’t work on the level of interaction design or product design. There are existing design patterns that are helpful to start from as they generally play to users’ expectations of how things will behave. However arbitrarily going for ‘consistency’ without consideration for it’s impact on usability or experience is dangerous — especially if you don’t validate with testing.Tell the story of your user. People can relate to stories — they’re a powerful way to convey the feeling of the experience, empathy and understanding of someone else’s perspective and context. This is important when you can’t involve everyone in research sessions. You need to be able to bring the team on the journey in other ways, and stories can be one of those ways.Stories can help define the baseline state, a user’s day to day life and work. Define the events and edge cases that would make a user behave differently. Explain the reasons for particular behaviour or choices. The ending is about how you craft an experience that improves on their existing one.This was a key lesson for me as I journeyed through different projects. Features seem really important when you come up with them, making you feel like you need to account for absolutely every angle. The experience starts to get muddy and complex — but what do you get rid of?It actually takes a lot of courage and focus to strip away the unnecessary to simplify experiences . It can feel like you’re missing something. The truth is users don’t necessarily need bells and whistles, so long as they can do what they need to smoothly and seamlessly, they’ll usually be happy.This is clearest in the example of the iPhone. A long, long time ago I worked as a phone salesperson. My team and I would often agonize over the fact that while the iPhone seemed to lag behind in both specs and features — customers would still pour in to buy it. Why? Because it does everything they need it to, simply.Getting comfortable and assuming for the best is the worst thing you can do with a design or interaction. Interactions don’t always go smoothly — in fact a lot of the time your planned interaction falls apart under the ‘killing field’ of usability testing.The kindest thing you can do for your design is to find the lowest common denominator and test the interaction there. Similarly, designs don’t always hold up in the ways they need to. Consider how your design needs to hold up on different devices or screen resolutions. What would happen if someone with vision impairment needed to increase the font size? Accessibility is also an important consideration here.Your product needs to deliver a particular value proposition, experience and business benefit. And these need to be defined before you start designing. The questions of ‘how do we deliver this benefit?’ or ‘what value proposition will engage users?’ or ‘what does the experience look like?’ are fundamental and need to be explored first since the answers will have a huge impact on the design. If your design isn’t based on the answers to those questions, it’s very likely that it may not succeed in delivering business benefit or enticing users to use it — no matter how beautiful or usable.The question here is ‘how fast can you go’? In Lean and Lean UX practices the term used to describe the minimum needed to learn and move forward is known as the ‘Minimum Viable Product (MVP)’.This doesn’t mean creating a prototype that is so flimsy that it can’t be used as a test. It means considering what excess can you strip away from your prototype/test cycles.Stay away from Photoshop and Axure in the beginning — these will slow you down. It’s not about deliverables anymore it’s about being lean and communicating within your team all the while avoiding ‘perfection’.What isn’t right? What’s the experience you wouldn’t want your users to have — or what wouldn’t they do? Sometimes if you go through this process the answers will emerge in the negative space.Really this is about Whenever you respond to a design the things you feel are ‘cool’ or ‘trendy’ stem from things you’ve been previously exposed to. If you dig into these feelings you’ll identify design patterns and trends that are actually frameworks you can use to branch out from to create new designs.This means you need to explore. Find designs and experiences that inspire you. Look at some of the best new content on sites like I didn’t have to change the words for this one — it translates perfectly. It’s just so applicable across multiple disciplines. Have you ever had an idea you thought was so great, you spent a lot of your time trying to stand up your idea or defend it? Hopefully this happens to other people and not just me. It’s a bad habit. You tighten around your idea and become closed off to other peoples’ ideas.You also don’t see the flaws in your idea or ever explore it deeply. Getting things on paper — and not just you, your team as well — is a great way to shine light on ideas, share and bounce off each other to create great new ideas that no one could have created alone.There’s no such thing as the ‘solo genius’ — beware of anyone who tells you otherwise. Don’t feed into your own delusions of grandeur. I am constantly surprised and amazed when I open up and share my ideas and listen curiously and openly to the ideas of others. Be the person helping others get their ideas down and sharing gold, rather than the hoarder trying to progress their own.It’s really important to go broad when you ideate. As soon as you get hooked on a concept or idea and start to converge and move forward, all the possibilities you didn’t look at never get a chance to be explored. You could potentially be missing a better solution.I’ve heard people say that if you can get your surface thoughts out the new ones that arise spontaneously are some of the most creative. There are some great workshop techniques that help facilitate this such as affinity mapping and design studio workshops.You need to understand your user base and you also need to facilitate and share this understanding with your team. If you don’t have sufficient research and don’t really understand the people you’re serving you can’t really explain this to your team. The stories you tell and the personas you explain won’t have depth or substance and this will impact the decisions the team make and the meaning their work has.Sometimes we create experiences that drive off deep seated beliefs. We have to be aware of ourselves and what influences us so that we can understand if it’s coming from a place of wisdom or somewhere that is fuelled by strong but not necessarily valuable opinions.Sometimes your team will go ‘really? REALLY?’ when you tell them that this isn’t going to work out for a user. Why? Because it’s hard to understand the perspective of a layperson when you’re in the position of expert. This again is about storytelling and conveying emotion. If you can explain how a user feels and the underlying motivations then your team are more likely to understand and share your view.Communicate the risks, the user’s frustrations and intentions. Practice your storytelling, bring people to your research sessions. Give your sponsors and colleagues a reason to care about the experience.Always participate in activities that are adding value. If you cannot understand how what you’re working on now will add value to the project you’re on, stop and find something else to work on. Don’t be afraid to let go of something.Check in with yourself. Hello? Are you getting carried away in design land? I do it all the time. I looove designing, spending time in Photoshop, trying different design angles. This is all very well and good — but check in with yourself and get up and test what you’ve done. Check in with users, check in with the team, and then you can get back to designing with the insight and direction your team and research provides.This one’s pretty simple — you can’t make excuses for major design and usability flaws in your interface. I’ve heard it before “we’ll provide training” or “it was only one user”. Don’t make excuses and don’t rationalise a position that’s really based on not questioning the design, spending more time and money on getting it right.This is a great exercise to do when going into a project. If you can take apart similar or existing experiences/solutions and understand what makes them poor (or what makes them good) you can use this to inform the direction you take when building a new experience. It’s not necessary to limit it to your preferences either. It’s extremely useful to conduct UX tests on competitor or existing systems to understand flaws or current behaviour patterns.When you research properly, you get to a point where you have a felt understanding of what a user context is. Meaning that you intuitively and experientially understand how they feel, what their circumstance is, and what drives behaviour. When you get to this point you’ll know it. From this point you can ideate from a platform of real understanding and have the potential to create a real experience — one that people see and agree that it’s the most obvious and common sense approach.Define the core and simplest version of the experience you want to create. This will help you focus when you start diving down into creating the interaction design and identifying priority user stories. If you know that a successful experiences only needs a core set you can deliver that — as fast as possible and then expand from there if necessary.Of course, these aren’t really the hard rules of UX or even a comprehensive list — rather a simple adaptation of the Pixar storytelling version. Which stories would you have adapted differently?A community of passionate individuals whose purpose is to revolutionize software design, creation and delivery, while advocating for positive social change.Essays on Technology, Innovation, Product Strategy and Leadership. Readers favorites and editors choices from ThoughtWorks Insights.

Focus on crafting a unique and specific definition that sheds light on who you are as a designer. Use this also as an opportunity to I focused my definition around empathy and the importance of understanding the people I’m designing for. It allowed me to touch on my background in psychology, allude to past experiences I had doing anthropological research, and brought to light the importance of designing human-centered experiences.Everyone has a different design process (and that’s okay). What will matter is your ability to describe your process and explain the rationale behind your approach. It’s a good idea to have a standard ‘go-to’ process in mind, yet it’s important to acknowledge your Ask your interviewer for specifics. Respond to a particular design problem the company is facing or talk about a process you have used in a particular situation.Through all my processes, my one constant is to When thinking about this question, consider your audience and have a range of apps/websites that can demonstrate a diversity of aspects you find important to design. When I was interviewing, I chose SquareCash represented While touching on UI elements, try to paint a picture of your values as a designer. By choosing apps/websites that highlight your interests and elegantly solve your pains, you’ll make a memorable impression.The ability to empathize andDon’t fudge this question! Find some members of the design community now that you admire and start reading — there are a lot of incredible designers out there to source inspiration. If you don’t have a list, check out LinkedIn, Medium, Twitter or design blogs to get started. If you’re feeling brave, reach out to members in the community and begin to cultivate a relationship. It’s remarkable how friendly people in the design circle can be.Use this as a chance to tell a story — and follow a typical story arc: background, opportunity, process, adversity along the way, triumphs, and outcome. Talk about As a young designer, I like to talk about my first foray in design: Creating the user experience for a Having When thinking about this question, I sometimes draw a graph mapping out my energy levels throughout the day. I’ve discovered I like ‘heads-down’ time in the morning, collaborative time after lunch, (snacks throughout the day) and time to consume content and find inspiration in the late afternoons. I try to balance my own patterns while being aware of others and the dynamics around me.Working at a fast-paced startup, you’ll inevitably be thrown assignments or tasks that you won’t initially know how to approach (If this doesn’t happen, you might not be really working at a startup). Think about a time you took on a difficult task head first and One example that comes to mind is the first time I conducted (guerrilla) user interviews. I found myself clueless with a script in my hand, an iPhone camera, and 7 strangers to find and interview on the street. I failed pretty hard at first — approaching people on the go, waiting too long to make an introduction (awkward…) and rushing my questions. I studied my footage, observed patterns of when people could most likely be approached (lunch in the park), and upped my confidence with the support of a friend designer and tried again. This time, a little bit better.I like to talk about the company from a When I was applying for full-time jobs, I had just left a contract gig where I was the sole designer. I knew that I was looking for something different — a place where I could be mentored, level up in a thriving design culture, and solve problems at scale. I found companies that fit my focus and demonstrated how I was aligned with the team.For young designers, this can feel like the toughest question to answer. Without a lot of design experience, what you As a young designer, you’ve taken an enormous leap into a new career. Talk about this experience and share the strides you’ve taken to get to where you are now and where you want to be. You have enormous potential — Product A collection of stories, case studies, and ideas from Salesforce UX

Few things in life are constant: death, taxes, and strangers asking As a UX designer, I’ve had a lot of practice over the years trying to nail down my answer.Here’s what I’ve come up with:It’s my job to be inside a user’s brain. I need to look at design from the mindspace of a user (actually, lots of users) and squash potential problems or confusion.This never-ending process requires keeping UX present before, during, and after the build is complete. It’s always a challenge to act with the user in mind — influences like due dates and bottom lines sometimes cloud the way.To help keep your product on the right path, I’ve assembled a list of 5 UX principles I use to guide my This goes beyond clear, Another good example of digestible design is the new user guide, often presented as staggered tips that a person can process one at a time. But imagine the opposite, hitting a brand-new user with a whole stack of instructions, removed from the context of the product. No one likes a confusing surprise.Consider all the decisions you’re asking someone to make with your product to get to the bottom of the funnel. The brain has a limited amount of cognitive resources during the day — Related to value, pricing is an area where clarity is everything. Users aren’t going to click “Buy now” if they can’t figure out what you’re asking them to pay. While shady “free trials” that switch to auto-billing might be the norm, I doubt they’re winning any popularity contests.This may sound cheesy, but a good plan is to simply follow the Golden Rule. Consider Uber (and Lyft, depending on which way you swing). They’ve made catching a ride so easy that a 100-year-old industry is now in chaos. The app saves your payment info, which you might not feel comfortable exchanging with a stranger, and facilitates a trustworthy, painless transaction.Removing doubt will create a growingly invisible experience. As decisions require less and less resources, using the product becomes easier and more enjoyable.Ground-breaking design is awesome, but design that converts is better. New frameworks and flashy plugins might look nice on Dribbble, but if no one is clicking the “buy” buttons, you’ve got a problem.Platform guidelines exist for a reason. While it might seem that making your product look exactly the same from platform to platform is the main goal, be careful to pay respect to the sticky details of each OS. Using Testing your solutions on actual devices goes a long way to ensuring things feel at home in each environment, which is where a tool like It’s been said that an idea isn’t enough anymore, that execution is what wins the war. Ironically, the more the team executes, the less the user has to. The more Building thoughtful products with clear intentions shows that you care, makes choices more comfortable, and leads to a better overall experience. And that’s important, because it’s been found that It’s easy to judge the user experience of your own product as long as you’re honest with yourself. Walk a mile in someone’s shoes, considering each action in your product from the brainspace of a tired, weary person. Would you click next?Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at Sharing our ideas and experiences

For many years, Photoshop was an ultimate go-to tool for designing digital interfaces. From simple web pages up to complex native apps.Was, because designers most used software becomes out of date. I’ve realised this after trying its rising competitors — Sketch 3 and Affinity Designer. Frankly speaking, it was probably the first time I worked with different software than Adobe on UI design. I must say it was a very refreshing experience.I’ve tried a different perspective. Another approach to UI design workflow and I liked it. It was Sketch that changed my look at my process. Because it’s intended to work as an interface design tool, its core logic is way different than the PS.It embraces focusing on the design as… how to say, on the product? For me, its workflow is much closer to the way software/websites are developed. It won’t let you treat your design as painting canvas of some sort.This experience results in this story. I realised how much software we’re using influence our workflow logic. Right now we’re at the very exciting moment. Photoshop is getting old. It’s slow, its core code is heavily outdated and after all it was made as photo editor not interface design tool. Former champion became lazy and got fat. At the same time rebels appeared. But none of them is perfect.We’re right before the biggest change on the UI design tools market since Fireworks. It’ll go one way or another. Adobe will release the killing design soft, written from the ground, or its competitors will take the market for themselves.Let’s stop for a minute and think — how would The Perfect UI design software look like? What toolset would suit designers needs perfectly and make our workflows most efficient? Or even revolutionise the way we’re designing interfaces? You can find mine 14 must-haves.One of the biggest problems of Photoshop is its greediness. PS eats your computer memory like a monster and nonetheless — works slow. I recently found it difficult to work with one website design on MBP retina from 2014 with 8GBs of RAM.It’s obvious that making software that’s faster and lighter is possible. Both Affinity Designer and Sketch beats Adobe flagship on his head.No one likes when few hours of hard work wastes when software crashes. It’s a real problem with today design software. I think none of the most popular solutions works well enough.Affinity has its child-age problems and crashes a lot, especially when using transparency tool. Photoshop is stable as rope bridge. I didn’t work in Sketch for some time, so I can’t tell how it looks today, but I recall some frustrating crashes.Sketch is a winner here. Photoshop wasn’t meant as UI design tool at all. It’s photo editor in its core after all (regardless many additions here and there). Adobe introduced a beta version of UI design workspace in PS but come on. First of all they cut way too many functionalities. Second, it looks for me like Winamp skin. We need a truly dedicated software.Meanwhile, Affinity looks little better than photoshop on this field but lacks any measurement tools. You can’t tell the distance between objects or scale an object by demanded percent value.Sketch is almost perfect. Almost because it has almost every single feature needed, but it’s interface could be designed to be more usable.For me, it’s a must have in today world. We’re designing for many devices, for many screen resolutions. Ability to easily rescale our work is a must have. Fortunately, software developers think the same.Every single app I mentioned allows to create vector based designs. My favourite here is Affinity with its non-destructive booleans. The least comfortable to use is Sketch. It has limited capabilities.You’ll need from time to time. To adjust photo colors or make some changes to raster graphics you use without leaving the app. Photoshop capabilities here are almost limitless.Affinity has an efficient set of tools for the most of tasks. Besides this, there’s also sister app from Serif: Affinity Photo, which works great with the Designer.Unfortunately, Sketch is really bad in this field. It’s almost impossible to perform any raster-based tasks in it. You may say it has its cons — It forces you to think carefully before putting something into your design, but. Sometimes you need to make some changes on the go. Sketch is clear looser here.It’s my great problem with Photoshop. When you scale pixel layer down it’s being compressed and loose quality. Unless you convert it to a smart object first. But smart objects are heavy, slows down your work, and for me, they’re made for different tasks.They’re great when you design e.g. button. You’re creating an object with button design then and copy it wherever you need creating instances. When you change button color, it changes everywhere. Great! But why making additional smarts just not to lose image quality when scaling?Affinity is great here. You can scale an image ten times, and it preserves start quality. It’s awesome. I was amazed when I discovered it. Then thought come, that it should be obvious… thanks, Adobe, I felt like stone-age relic because PS take on that.and give you a possibility to preview it in pixels in real time. And it has retina pixel mode! How great. None of the competitors comes even close.The case? for me every single design should be grid based.Beside that they can enhance UX by creating predictable patterns for users to follow. Yes, they’re crucial.I’d like to have a simple tool for generating grids. One that will calculate and distribute them based on my inputs. I’d also love support for grid breakpoints, something no one supports today.Just watch how it works in Sketch. I’d like to see it everywhere!I’ve recently written an article about typography rules for beginners. You can find it Artboards allow you to create fixed frames on the open canvas. If you’re creating a responsive web design or a mobile app for different devices, you may want to turn each screen size into an Artboard. They’re great. Artboards allow you also to use smart objects or symbols across the design. All the screens in one file. Very convenient! Today, only Affinity Designer isn’t able to pull them off. I hope it’ll change soon.New apps coming to the market means greater segmentation. Not everyone will be using the same product, and different teams have different workflows. In one the designer will send PSD files to the developer, in the other designer will produce a pack of assets for the developer. That means that a great software have to export designers work in different formats.I like what Affinity is doing. It allows you to import PSD files (pretty well!) and export your Affinity made designs to PSD also! It’s great. PSD format is a standard after all and, it’ll stay that way for a while.The last thing is very simple. In both Photoshop and sketch you can just right-click on the object and copy its CSS properties. It’s that easy. Affinity Designer lacks this function. And it needs to catch up on it very soon!There is no perfect solution available for designers today. Although perspectives are promising. Above I’ve presented my vision. Things that are crucial for me to work smoothly and efficiently. I’m really curious, what would you like to see in The Perfect UI design tool? What functionalities would make you a better designer?Do you like my story?Senior Web Designer at GOG.com. Freelance product designer, art director and founder at Pixology. Music and typo lover. Gamer. Interaction / Product / User Experience / User Interface / Design

Most designers naturally want to join a company where the design of the product is already strong, believing it reflects the value the company places on design and how well designers are set up to succeed. However, product / design quality is a Lagging indicators are output-oriented, the results of efforts that were made in the past. They are backward-focused and trailing. Leading indicators, on the other hand, are precursors that help predict the direction something is going. In public companies, for example, lagging indicators of a company’s health might include net revenue, revenue growth, and return on net assets. Leading indicators might include customer satisfaction, growth in new markets, brand recognition, or number of new patents. Both kinds of metrics are important to consider when evaluating how well a company is doing and where it’s headed. Similarly, lagging and leading indicators for product and design can help guide what companies need from design and what CEOs can do to turn design around within their companies.When it comes to assessing a company’s relationship to design, it really boils down to two things: (1) design team morale and (2) product quality.You can chart the relationship between design team morale and product quality into a 2x2 box to infer where things are at and what is needed:Let’s take a look at each box and what it means:Under this scenario, it’s likely that the company lacks a strong vision for what it wants to do and/or how to get there. The product is confused because internally the company lacks clarity. The design team’s morale is low because they don’t feel empowered to solve the company’s problems; the problems go beyond the purview of the design team.Within product development teams, designers suffer the most when there is insufficient process. Process can often be overlooked or undervalued within companies trying to move quickly, but a little bit of the right process can help teams move even faster toward the desired goal. Process can keep a team focused by clarifying escalation paths and how decisions get made. The first design created is rarely the best; use process to carve out sufficient time for designers to explore, design, prototype, and iterate.There can be a variety of explanations for this scenario but rarely are designers ever happy to work at a company that is shipping a bad product unless they believe in the future. Under this scenario, the company is likely orchestrating a pivot or change that gives the designers hope.It might be surprising to know that a design team’s morale can suffer even when they are shipping products that are well-designed, but it does happen. Under this scenario, the product has likely reached some level of maturity, but the company has stopped innovating, growth is starting to stagnate, and the future is uncertain. The company ships reasonably good products but designers feel they are not helping to move the needle forward significantly.Another reason for this scenario may be that the designers are overwhelmed and cannot keep up with the internal demand for their skills. They are spread too thin across too many projects.Alternatively, if design team capacity is the problem, the team needs strong management: allocate more headcount towards design to keep up with the demand, and prioritize aggressively. Rarely are there ever enough designers to go around. Rather than spread few resources across too many projects, redirect designers’ energy toward working on a few projects really well.Everything is running well and people are happy. While the product is successful and there is company growth, positive design team morale reflects opportunities for their growth and development, not stagnation, and such opportunities are typically the outcome of a strong vision for the company and a clear direction for how to get there.Designers vetting different job opportunities should pay attention to both the morale of the design team and the quality of the product. Either in isolation will only tell you part of the story, but combined can give you a more complete picture.Once you have made that assessment, consider what the company needs from design, and decide for yourself whether you want to sign up for that challenge. No single challenge is more or less worthy than the others; everyone’s temperament and appetite for these different challenges vary. The better you know yourself and what kind of work nourishes you, the better equipped you are to choose what makes sense for you.For CEOs, design team morale is a both a leading and lagging indicator, because morale is deeply affected by the sum of how the company thinks and acts. If CEOs care about the success of future projects, they need to pay attention to the morale of their design team. Connect with the design team to understand:With insight into these questions, you can start to uncover the factors that contribute to low design team morale and take steps that will ultimately benefit product quality.-Operating partner at Khosla Ventures; former head of design at Google, Yahoo, Udacity. Yoga + meditation teacher, Montessori mom, dessert maker.Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

There can hardly be any doubt; UX Design is all the rave in the year 2015. So what better time to take a step back, and assess the state of the UX Design field?In recent years, the UX community has seen many a discussion about the definition and boundaries of UX design.At one end of the spectrum, many seem to focus the term “UX design” around user research and information architecture. This makes a lot of sense — certainly, these disciplines play an integral role in ensuring a good user experience in a digital product. Additionally, these disciplines are related to a lot of tools and methodologies that have come to be closely associated with the UX Designer: personas, use cases, wireframes, and so on.At the other end of the spectrum, we occasionally find the term UX design used almost interchangeably with User Interface (UI) Design. And while this tendency has been But although I can personally relate to both these definitions of UX design, I also think they share the same flaw: they’re both reductive in their attempt at restraining the term “UX design” to a certain set of tools or a certain part of the design phase.The fact of the matter is that UX design is not Operating within a field as broad as UX can be scary. The many disciplines involved in UX design can make even the most talented professionals feel inadequate. One might argue There may certainly be a lot of truth to this criticism. But to me, the rapidly rising popularity of the term “UX design” (and the job titles that go with it) are also symptomatic of a highly positive trend; the professionals working with the design of digital products are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of involving oneself in the entire design process.Rather than caring too much about roles and titles and responsibilities, UX Designers are beginning to focus on what’s important: the users and their experiences. To design great products for our users, we can’t just be cogs in a wheel — we have to care about and involve ourselves in the entire design process, from research to design to development. To me, UX design as a term and field is enabling this development. That the UX mindset is creating a less “silo’ed”, more fluid design process seems to shine through in a lot of the discussions and developments that are going on in our community. New approaches and new tools appear almost daily, and some are quickly becoming industry standards. And it seems to me, that all these new toys are contributing to steadily bridging the gaps between the the various disciplines under the UX umbrella.Allow me to give you a few examples.There is no doubt that I recently spoke to a close friend of mine, who works as a UX Architect at a digital agency. She was telling me about their transition to using Sketch. Previously the handoff from wireframing to UI design had been complex process for them. Wireframes were typically done by UX Architects in Axure, before being handed of to UI Designers that would rework them in Photoshop. But with Sketch, they have found a tool that bridges this gap, and allows them to work much closer and much more iteratively together.As opposed to Photoshop, Sketch is simple and intuitive, and provides just the right set of vector-based tools, that makes it perfect for wireframing. And the UI Designers are able to collaborate on the same files, adding visual design and details in Sketch, which would have been impossible to do in Axure. For my friend, this has been a major improvement to her workflow, allowing for a much better collaboration between the people in her UX team, and ultimately; much better UX on their products.And apparently, my friend and her team is not alone in using Sketch to improve thier UX workflow:User interfaces should be responsive and New tools for designing interactions and transitions are bridging the gap between UI design and interaction design. Tools such as Digital products are both interactive and dynamic. So in order to create an optimal UX, neither There are plenty of great open source frameworks for designing with code and creating prototypes in-browser, such as All these frameworks bring together a number of best practices and useful front-end tools to create an ideal starting point for quickly putting together prototypes. This not only helps to bridge the gap between UI design and interaction design , but potentially also between UX and front-end development. Developers are able to follow along in the entire UX process, and can reuse all (or large parts of) the code in the final product.Luckily, a number of new tools are appearing that enable designers to create semantic, well-coded prototypes — without necessarily writing any code themselves. These While “UX design” as a field and a term can certainly be accused of blurring boundaries and making it difficult to distinguish between the disciplines, I think that it may just as well be applauded for bringing them together.UX design is a multidisciplinary spectrum, and few UX designers span the entirety of it — but the spectrum allows us to break out of the silo mentality and establish a common mindset.In 2015, I think we’re really seeing the effects of this. Despite varying “UX xyz” job titles and individual areas of focus, new tools and methodologies are bridging the gaps between the various disciplines under the UX umbrella. Tools for information architecture, for visual design, for prototyping and for coding are allowing UX designers to collaborate more easily, and are creating much more rapid and iterative workflows.This is great news; for us in the UX field, and for the users that we’re designing for.I can’t wait to see what the future will bring.Creative Director, US Blog posts from the FFW team

It’s a joke I often tell This makes our work fundamentally abstract and collaborative. We need tools that support us with this. While the current tools we have are valuable, they are not sufficient. UX design is not just about creating prototypes. We need a true UX tool that supports us in the reality of our everyday work.In order to take a better look at what would be required from a true UX tool, let’s take a closer look at a typical work day.Here’s a short list of tasks based on my own experience:As you can see, the tasks can be quite diverse. For me, the overarching theme is that we clarify. We turn a vague idea into a concrete plan our colleagues can use to create a great product for our clients.In designing a concrete plan, we spend our time not just creating and testing prototypes. We first need to figure out what the desired user experience is, then we design the conditions that enable this experience to happen.This design process demands We all have learned that a designer is not a typical user. The same goes for clients, developers, copywriters and all other stakeholders we work with. They all have their own way of thinking, expertise and level of understanding. This makes communicating about our work an extra challenge.If you look online on sites like These tools promise to offer support in creating prototypes.All sorts of prototypes with all sorts of interactivity and fidelity, but the promise is roughly the same; we help you create a great a user interface.The majority of these tools enable you to make:The starting point for creating a great user interface seems to be creating a great page.Perhaps it seems like I take aim at prototyping tools, while ignoring the non-prototyping tools. Clearly there are many specialized tools for the other parts of the UX design process.For instance, there are tools for user testing and feedback like While there is value in tools that do one thing and do it well. Using different tools for different perspectives on the same process offers a broken experience. Designing UX is the one thing we do, creating a deliverable like a flowchart is a subset of that.Sharing of assets is far from a seamless experience and it’s just not practical to use different interfaces to create, collaborate, communicate and validate the same design.Switching tools is time consuming for myself, but in collaboration and communicating with different stakeholders it’s a potential source of mistakes and miscommunication. The preferred situation is that there is one online ‘truth’ of the current state of the whole design.To the credit of some of the new tools like InVision and UX-Pin, they do seem to give a lot more prominence to support the workflow. It’s a step forward, but since they still seem to put the sole focus on creating prototypes, there is still a lot of room for improvement.Let’s take a look at what is needed to move forward.Based on my own experience, there are two core requirements for a true UX tool.Based on these requirements, I have sketched a number of features that I believe would empower me as a user experience designer.One of the most fun parts of being a UX designer is learning new things with every project. In writing this article, I also learned a lot about how we work and how it can be improved.I’m curious if the ideas laid out here resonate with you. What do you think is fundamental for a true UX tool?User experience designer @ Jungle Minds. Creator of Idea Growr appby the people at Jungle Minds

Why is it that some products take a piece of our heart? What is it about their design that makes us feel connected, amused, and The iOS and Google Play stores contain over 2 million apps. If that doesn’t make your head spin, let’s talk about the It’s a challenging market out there for us makers. As our generation gets exposed to increasingly amusing tech products, we can’t help but wonder: how can our project break through the clutter?Instead, Sure, this all sounds complicated. But I’ve narrowed it down to 3 simple steps:Let’s take 1 step at a time:The American Psychological Association (APA) defines personality as the “unique psychological qualities of an individual that influence a variety of characteristic behavior patterns (both overt and covert) across different situations and over time.”Our personality influences the way we think, behave, and feel with regard to our surroundings. Similarly, as users interact with your product, they’re expecting a friendly language that guides them through a specific flow of events. By linking your brand with several traits that are traditionally used to describe In Terms like voice, tone, and language can be confusing. Just bear in mind that voice is the overall style in which your brand expresses, while Based on the personality you just found, take a few minutes to answer the following questions about your voice:Once you’ve come up with answers to these questions, put your newly-defined brand voice on paper. Creating a set of guidelines and examples helps everyone on your team align with a common language. Take a look at Mailchimp’s I’ve created a template to help you capture a language that reflects your brand’s voice. To fill it out, define a list of words that you’ll use to express excitement, encouragement, concern, regret, and gratitude. A success message, for example, would express excitement, while an alert message would display concern. Also come up with a few sample phrases that show how to use the word in context.No matter which framework you’re using to visualize the entire user experience (journey maps, flowcharts, sitemaps, storyboards, and the like), your brand’s voice can and should be incorporated in every stage.Here are some common places where you can start bringing in the vocabulary and tone that you just defined:Translating robot-speak can be a daunting task. You might feel like you’re crossing the line more than once. Are we being too casual? Will this scare users away? Is slang OK for a purchase button? Going back to the template above will help you stay on-brand, and regular A/B testing will allow you to experiment within reasonable risk limits.To inspire you, I’ve collected 8 stellar examples of brand voices that have been translated into the user experience flow. Most of these focus on Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

Today I was asked by someone for a good reading list for Interaction Designers, Design Researchers, Information Architects, Usability Professionals and just designers. So here’s mine in no order. Respond with your additions.-Dave Malouf is the Principal Experience Strategist at HP Helion Cloud. He loves designing, traveling, teaching, observing, and playing.Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

Ever since I started getting into User Experience Design, Google has always been a great inspiration. Simply because as a user, Google has always been able to know what I need, buckle it up in a simple nifty feature that makes you go “Of course, how could I’ve lived without that?” while I had never really thought I was missing that feature. Does this ring a bell? Let me share with you afew examples, that left me with “Aww” at first experience.How many times have you received an email reply saying “You forgot to attach”? How many Assignment submissions did you miss, and how many bad first impressions did you make just because you were too hooked up in writing an email about the attachment that you actually forgot to add it. Don’t despair, Google to the rescue, with a reminder just in case you forgot:But that is not the end of it, now with Google Drive you don’t get to attach as much as before, you also share documents with others to ask them to collaborate, the you “Forgot to attach ” email becomes “You forgot to give me access” and for that another rescue popup!Who doesn’t like a neat hyperlink in their documents? How many times have you left where you were typing in the document, went to a new tab in your browser, searched to get a link to paste as a hyperlink? Well no more running around the tabs, you say hyperlink, we bring you Google search at your finger tips, but not just that, how about we search in your documents as well and show results based on your search history.Some reactions are just too predicatable, I mean well, if someone sends you an invitation to a dropbox folder, “Duah” you probably want to open it! And of course, I want to be friends on foursquare too! So why go to that other app and do that action, when Google knows what you want to do next and can bring it to you at the tip of your fingers even without opening the email.The curse of the premature send. The one that caused half written awkward emails to be sent, the one that has caused you to tell a friend about the surprise party you are holding even though you realized your mistake right after hitting the send button, because you were replying to the wrong email thread. Fear no more, Google believes in second chances, and the past with a little sending time buffer can surely be undone.Do you use multiple layouts on your keyboard? How many times did you start typing in Google search only to find out you are using the wrong layout? Well, it’s ok cause you know Google can understand you, and infers that the word you are trying to type is in fact in your other keyboard layout.We may not be able to prevent everyone from using the reply all button, We may not be able to avoid the distractions of endlessly long and irrelevant email conversations, but we sure can choose to Shush them up! No need to get a notification at every update. Now you can choose to check that noisy conversation only when you have the time. Many people don’t know they can do that, but Google mail comes with a Mute button !Last but not least, the one feature that makes reading and managing your email easier, smoother and faster. The feature that saved us the time of creating endless filters. The feature that stops us from getting let down and “bummed” at every notification email that is simply a promotion or social update. Yes you guessed it, its the feature that helps important emails make it to the top of your inbox, the inbox tabs.That’s just to name a few of those awesome features that Google crafts and engineers to its users with ultimate heart.Passion driven and on a quest to change the world, UX Engineer @ 

A gorgeous app with poor UX isn’t a gorgeous app — it’s an invitation to frustration. Your users deserve better than that.The Everybody’s different, so why should the UX be one-size-fits-all?My favorite travel apps, for example, present the right information before I even ask because they have learned my preferences through data such as geolocation, usage, and app settings.Digging through a bunch of content to find something I’ve seen before is a waste of time.OpenTable is a restaurant reservation app. It also knows a lot about the user, such as what they like to eat.When I make a reservation using OpenTable, it’s presented in the main menu area — I can’t miss it. The app’s UI adapts to me, making it easy for me to see crucial, time-sensitive content.And when I’m thinking about making a reservation, OpenTable suggests places it thinks I’ll like based on my previous restaurant reviews and my current geolocation.When you search for a restaurant only by its name, Google Search determines your geolocation and then shows you results that are nearby. That way it’s not showing you a Burger King in Thailand when you’re in San Francisco.To the user, it’s quick and seamless — and that’s what Imagine setting your mobile device to Airplane mode. If your phone doesn’t have this feature, just imagine switching off its internet connection.Which of your apps would still be useful?And which ones would be completely useless?For me, maybe a couple out of hundreds of apps have offline functionality worth a dang.And beyond simply knowing if an internet connection is available or not, the app should also sense the context of the connection.Am I on wifi? Am I out roaming? Am I anywhere near the event your app is about to send me a Some of the worst offenders send down egregious amounts of images and assets for relatively simple experiences. I don’t need 39 photos to load as soon as I enter an image-gallery screen, thank you very much. Please wait until I actually browse to them. We’ve learned that user satisfaction is inversely tied to loading time. Why waste precious seconds loading those huge retina photos no one’s going to look at?Microsoft Research has done several studies on network-aware applications. Here’s one of them (opens PDF): Pocket is a save-for-later Web content manager. But the app is just as — if not more — useful offline.When I add an article to Pocket, it’s automatically downloaded to my device so I can read it later without an Internet connection.Downloading web content onto my device seems like it would be a task- and bandwidth-intensive process. But Pocket pulls it off so slickly that I hardly even notice what it’s doing. It just works.We’re all used to music- and video-syncing, but seeing it done so seamlessly with Web content is a treat.Out of the box, Pocket makes some default choices for you, then gives specific, granular control over how your articles are saved, how your data is used, and more.Google apps fine-tune a lot of its bandwidth and network usage. For example, when using Google Photos as a photo-backup service, bandwidth-heavy uploads only happen on wifi by default.Being frivolous with your app notifications makes your app seem needy.And even when your notification UX is good, things can go south fast when they aren’t kept in sync across the user’s devices. Even worse: Using notifications to deliver useless things like ads, or other unwanted blasts. Only in very few situations do I want to know your iOS game added 3 new characters available for micro-purchase.I take it back. I never want to know that.Twitter has some of the most granular notification settings around. Even the individual options have sub-options of their own. This way, the user can tailor their Twitter notifications based on their personal needs and priorities.To top it off, there’s a master toggle for silencing all notifications at once (without mussing up each setting).Outside of the app, their notification emails feature easy, one-click unsubscribe, with no questions asked. You’d think that would be commonplace by now, but here we are.Having no But a ton of content with no way to navigate to them can be just as lame.Content that Without a solid search interface, as a user, I’m left with little defense against the horde of status updates, user profiles, and new uploads.All search interfaces are not created equal, however. Sometimes a page filled with low-quality search results and a lack of filters is just as bad as not having search at all.Your customizable, Etsy is a marketplace that lets anyone sell just about anything. That means they have a lot of content on the site.Just to give you a scale of how many products Etsy has on the site: my recent search for “wedding invites” yielded over 200,000 results.Good thing Etsy has a killer faceted search navigation interface. With a few taps, you can drill down into their search results with categories, product trait filters (like price or style), and sort the results to your heart’s content.Imagine sorting through 200,000+ results for the term “wedding invites” with zero search customization. Page after page of plain listings, hundreds of thousands deep. You will never be able to send out your wedding invitations because you were too busy looking for a wedding invitation template.When I search for images that’ve been backed up by Google Photos, something magical happens.All my photos are automatically organized by keywords that I didn’t have to enter manually. Google just sniffs out what’s being shown in each photo somehow.Big-brother concerns aside, that makes for an Flickr recently launched a similar search interface, and I can only imagine our image searches will continue to get smarter from here on out.User onboarding is the process of getting users using your app as soon as possible.The user-onboarding experience should start as soon as the app is launched for the first time. This is often referred to as the Presenting new users with an empty screen and scant direction creates a terrible first impression. And, first impressions are the most lasting.Imagine Instagram with no photos when you launch it, or Twitter with no tweets to read.Some of the big offenders when it comes to poor user onboarding include empty content wells, friends lists with 0 friends, and a sea of confusing, equally-weighted app options/settings.The solution is straightforward: take the time needed to It sounds simple, but so many apps stumble with Pinterest is a place to collect all the things you love.When a new user joins, Pinterest asks questions and learns the best types of content to present.After picking topics, a user can connect with friends from other social networks and start viewing their friends’ content. Progress bars and cheeky messages cheer new users to the finish line.In seconds, a new user is transformed into a Pinterest pro through a totally decked-out user experience.Slack is a communication platform designed for teams. When a new user joins, they immediately get a message from a playfully helpful “robot” named Slackbot.Slackbot introduces the key parts of the platform, via the platform itself. The hands-on onboarding process gets users using the app instantly.Not only is the Slack onboarding hands-on, answering questions from a robot somehow carries a lot more charm than filling in an old-school web form for your name, location, etc. Slack’s Slack has a fantastic guided tour which trickles out over time. Instead of dumping a 14-step instructional manual on you, Slack presents just 2–3 key tips per session, spacing things out for your sanity.There’s no shame in overlooking anything on this list. And if you feel you can enhance a certain aspect of your app, look at those areas as potential opportunities for growth.And even when things are humming right along, it’s not a terrible idea to find time to take real stock of Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

Surprisingly, few are talking about what could be the biggest user experience story of 2014: The introduction of the Disney Magic Band.Once activated, park Guests use the Magic Band to gain access to the park, get in priority queues for the attractions, pay for their purchases at the concession stands, and even get into their hotel room.Each family member has a wearable band with GPS and radio transmitters that track each other’s location in the park. At the end of their stay, Disney presents the family with a photo diary of their park adventures, having used automatic cameras to snap pictures when the Magic Bands are nearby. And imagine the face of a newly-turned six-year-old who just had his favorite Disney character address him by name and wish him a happy birthday.The result is an extremely delightful vacation experience. Disney made a billion dollar investment to create a wearable accessory that changes their park experience completely.To make the Magic Band work, Disney had to wire an entire new infrastructure into its parks. Stores and restaurants needed to be outfitted with the new payment systems. Every hotel room needed new lock systems to work with the Magic Band’s RFID transmitter. Radio systems needed to start alerting the characters when a fan is nearby.One billion dollars is a lot of money, but it’s easy to see how all these changes added up quickly. Yet, at any time, the team at Disney could’ve decided to cut corners. They could’ve said, “That’s a nice idea. Maybe we’ll do that in the second release?”But they didn’t compromise. They decided to make the magic really work. After all, that’s what Disney is all about.Just a decade ago, Disney was struggling to provide great online experiences. In those days, guests trying to make reservations found the system confusing and difficult to use. It was common for someone trying to book a resort stay through the website to have to call the customer support center to complete the transaction.The real achievement of the Disney Magic Band is the transformation the organization has gone through to make it work. They made it past what we call the The UX Tipping Point is the moment when an organization no longer compromises on well-designed user experiences. Before they hit the tipping point, they might talk about great design, but they’ll still ship a mediocre experience. However, once they’ve passed it, design has become an embedded part of their culture and DNA.Many organizations take a similar journey to get beyond the tipping point. A typical journey might look like this:It’s during this last phase that we see organizations crossing the UX tipping point. When UX skills are first embedded into teams, it’s still tolerable to ship a less-than-desirable design as a compromise to hitting business objectives. However, with more investment (that shows up as more UX skills added to the teams), the tolerance for compromising on design reduces. Eventually, a compromised design is more of an exception than a common occurrence.Once the organization crosses the tipping point, we’ve found there’s still one more phase in their journey:Not every organization goes through all of these phases. The most notable exceptions are startups. If the founders understand how user experience and design will give them a competitive advantage, they build it in from the very beginning.We see this with organizations like Cirque du Soleil, Uber, and Nest. These organizations didn’t need to prove the value of design to the senior management. Nor did they have to overcome legacy cultures and systems that never accounted for good design.Instead, they jumped into creating great experiences from their very first day and kept running with it. Their competitors suddenly found themselves in a game of catch-up, trying to rush through the phases to pass through the tipping point.In many cases, those competitors never quite got there. Look at Microsoft. While they’ve had some successes with products like the XBox, they’ve never made the shift of lowering their tolerance for poorly designed elements. When push comes to shove, they’ll ship something that is a less-than-ideal design to make their deadlines, instead of tailoring the ship date to when they can achieve an excellent design.In these organizations, the rewards given senior management are for shipping features, not for delivering an excellent experience. With the rewards out of alignment, the UX Tipping Point won’t be crossed.Look around any business today and you’ll see technology working in every nook and cranny. Yet it hasn’t always been that way. Just a few decades ago, there wasn’t any technology in most businesses. No databases and networks, no personal computers, and probably not even a mainframe sitting in a water-chilled room somewhere. The information technology that runs today’s businesses is a fairly new phenomenon.Like the current UX Tipping Point, an IT Tipping Point appeared about 25 years ago. Before the IT Tipping Point, businesses got along just fine doing all their work by passing papers and relying on people to talk to each other. The business was slow and often didn’t scale very large.When the technology came along, and then got cheaper to own, some businesses adapted right away and crossed the IT Tipping Point with glee. Others were dragged across it, kicking and screaming all the way. Many more never crossed it. They are no longer with us.Like the UX Tipping Point, new companies of that era were born without having to make the journey across the IT Tipping Point. Because they started with the right technology in place, and a thorough understanding of how to use it, they were instantly competitive against the old mainstays in their industry. Old businesses that thought they were impregnable found themselves suddenly vulnerable to startups who had the right technological know-how.That’s what we’re about to see with the UX Tipping Point. Suddenly, businesses that thought they were market leaders will be undermined by startups providing their customers, users, and employees great designs that don’t compromise on a better experience.For an organization to move beyond the UX Tipping Point, it must first become literate in user experience, then fluent in how to produce great experiences. This doesn’t happen all at once, it can take years. However, if it never happens, the organization won’t make it beyond the tipping point.All this builds the underlying substrate that helps the organization work to a point when they feel they no longer need to compromise on good design. By understanding how to render their intentions with a team that is fully-skilled in up-to-date UX design practices, the organization can now regularly produce great user experiences for their customers, users, and employees. They’ve made it beyond the UX Tipping Point.Thank you for encouraging my behavior! Founder of Thoughts about user experience design and strategy.

A year ago I was burning the midnight oil working on a project. My daughter snuck up behind me and peeked over my shoulder.“Wait… isn’t your job doing UX?” she asked.“Yep,” I replied.She responded very innocently, “So why does that screen say UI? Are they the same thing? What’s the difference between UX and UI?”I sat back in my chair and stared at her for a sec, and said, “You know what? Give me a minute.”I was suddenly struck with the realization that even folks who are professional designers have a tough time explaining the difference to each other, let alone trying to explain it to family and friends. And kids (mine included), know IMMEDIATELY if you’re BSing, and they aren’t afraid to call you out.After giving it some serious thought I whipped out my trusty Sharpie and some Post-it notes and started to doodle.I wound up with a little dude with spikey hair on a bicycle.My daughter looked it over and said, “Oh! So the UI is the part you use, and UX is how you feel when you use it.”I was so pumped. Clearly it wasn’t a comprehensive explanation of every nuance between the two, but she grasped the high level concept in seconds.At that point I decided, on a whim, to post a pic of the doodle on I got up the next morning and flipped open my Twitter app and was astounded to discover that over a hundred people had retweeted my doodle. This was back in the day when I only had about 1000 followers, so the number was crazy to me. I manically started replying to each person thanking them for their retweets, and wished A LOT that I had branded my 3 days later thousands of people had tweeted, retweeted, shared, favorited liked and posted my Post-it note doodle all over the inter webs. Folks had even begun translating it in to other languages!All of a sudden, I started getting a flood of emails related to the doodle. People began asking to use it in articles and presentations. Professors emailed asking if they could include it in their design curriculums. A publisher contacted me and asked if I would consider writing a book about user experience. Not one, but 2 authors asked if I would illustrate their books. A flood of requests came in asking for It was by far the most excessively random thing that had ever happened to me in my entire life.Never under estimate the power of doodling. Even a picture of a stick figure on a death trap bicycle can get a concept across. Who knows what kinds of concepts your doodles could could bring clarity to.Takeaway: Don’t be afraid to start sharing your doodles! And especially don’t fear doodle haters. There are people out there who hate Picasso paintings, while others pay millions to own one. Art is in the eye of the beholder, so just man up and share your work! There could be far more power in your doodles than you’d expect!-UX  Content Strategist at 

Every few weeks, a phone call or email comes out of the blue, asking me to perform magic. The inquirer always wants the same thing: to stand up in front of a room filled with their executives, delighting them with a presentation that will make them rise to their feet cheering. This audience will then burst out of the room, make demands of their subordinates and invest everything in a whole-scale, no-holds-barred user experience effort that will revolutionize the company, the products, and the world.And it may surprise you to learn that I refuse the offer every time. As a policy here at Actually, I don’t. I’ve been pitching our services for 23 years and I’ve never once successfully convinced an executive of anything.Our success has always come from projects where the client team, including the senior management, already understood the value of great user experiences. I haven’t convinced them because they didn’t need convincing.Have you ever met a smoker? Of course you have. Have you ever met a smoker who didn’t know the harmful effects of smoking? I bet not. Every smoker I know is well aware of what smoking does to their bodies, yet they continue to smoke. There are physical, cultural, and behavioral forces that make it hard to quit.Sure, there may be a few execs that are somehow still unaware of how a delightful, useful, easy-to-use product is better than a frustrating, useless, difficult-to-work product. I haven’t met one in all my years, but they could exist. Even so, I don’t believe a presentation will change their views.What can you do instead of a presentation?You can find out what your executives are already convinced of. If they are any good at what they do, they likely have something they want to improve. It’s likely to be related to improving revenues, reducing costs, increasing the number of new customers, increasing the sales from existing customers, or increasing shareholder value.(That’s a project we’ll accept AND guarantee by the way. We’ve done it before, many times. It’s expensive, but it produces great results.)Once you start talking about what the executives are already convinced of, it becomes easier to get them to make investments. You’re no longer trying to get them to change their focus. You’re playing directly into their main field of attention.A generic presentation about how Apple or some other company has a great user experience program (or worse, a presentation showing all the bad user experiences in the world), won’t convince anyone of doing anything different.You’ll need to do something custom. Something specific to their current focus.And if that doesn’t work, maybe it’s time for you to find someplace else to work. Someplace where the executives are already convinced and want to make the investment. Right now, there are plenty of these opportunities on the market. Why bang your head against a wall when you can be doing those things you love?Thank you for encouraging my behavior! Founder of Thoughts about user experience design and strategy.

After teaching a few UX Boot Camp courses and seeing my students from different backgrounds starting their career as UX Designers, I have learned that there are many paths taken to become a UX Designer. If you’re considering making the move from a different career to become a UX Designer yourself, below are three core suggestions and best practices that can help you enter the field.One of my students has been a highly successful architect for years. He and his co-workers designed mansions for Michael Bay and many other celebrities. Despite how successful he has been throughout his architectural career, he is not happy with it.“I can see myself in 10 years, and it’s not exciting enough for me. I want challenges.” This is where his desire to become a UX Designer begins. “For years my design has been based on THE clients’ preference. The audience is very specific. I want to design for more people,” he said. However, after the first few classes (our Boot Camp is 12-weeks long with 3 projects), he struggled. “It’s more difficult than I imagined”.Changing your career is never easy. It means that you have to start fresh, leave all the domain knowledge you’ve accumulated in your previous life behind and learn lots of new things. The best advice I can give you before you get started is to make sure that you know what UX Design really is and that it is something you would love to do. Doing what you love is the best possible career choice you can make, and so it’s important to make sure that UX Design is something that you can become passionate about as you evaluate possible career opportunities. Talk to as many friends or working professionals in the field as possible, and ask them what their work life is like. In addition, try to attend UX events, even though you are not yet a UX Designer yourself. Getting involved in the community will help you to better understand what your career will look like once you become a UX Designer.Another good way to get involved in the field is to immerse yourself in knowledge about the field by reading books and articles about UX design, especially case studies that show how it’s been applied in practice. There are several good reading lists you can find online, like “Though challenging, I can see myself doing this for years, EVERY DAY, and I am willing to work very hard to fulfill it.” says my student, the former architect. After making the jump and going through my Boot Camp course, he has started his own startup as a Co-Founding DesignerYou might have heard that everyone should be able to become a UX Designer. “I thought this was going to be easy, but it’s hard. Harder than my previous job as a programmer,” said one of my students who used to be a very senior Software Engineer. If you want to become a UX Designer just because you think it is easy, it might surprise you once you get started.Technically, everyone The best answer is that you need to work hard to accumulate some experience. My advice is: experiment with small real-world projects, begin to conduct user research sessions, and last but not least, participate in hackathons or any other design events as frequently as possible.Being hired at a big company might be difficult to achieve for your first step. However, you can start with doing project work for non-profit organizations or academic groups. They are more likely to be open and excited to get your help. You might need to start by working for free in some cases, but you will have control over the scope of your involvement. While doing your project, try to analyze the problem that you are trying to solve for the organization, what information is needed in order to provide a solution, and how to determine whether your solution has successfully solved the problem. In order to gain context and to effectively approach your project, try to talk to the organization’s users as early and often as possible. You will need the user’s feedback to influence your design decisions. Remember, UX Design is a problem-solving process, and user research will help guide you through that process. Additionally, try to practice the UX methodologies you’ve learned from other UX Designers, from a Boot Camp or from simply a UX book.2. Talk to users whenever you canThe ability to understand user needs and behaviors is not something that you can acquire from a single conversation with a user. And by “users”, I am not referring to people you find from a recruiting firm to interview and help evaluate a product. A user can be anyone who interacts and engages with a product. For example, when one of your friends complains about Facebook, you can ask them how they use Facebook and why they think it works or doesn’t work for them in order to get experience with gathering and evaluating user needs. In addition, this goes hand-in-hand with the first item, the experimental project. Once you have some ideas about how you can improve the design of a product, ask your friends, family, co-workers or even someone in a coffee shop for feedback. My students once did a guerilla usability test (where you get lightweight feedback on an idea without needing to create a detailed user research plan) in a coffee shop and they told me that they gained an incredible amount of insight over that one day study just by talking to 8 random people. In addition, you will definitely become a better communicator, and start to become more empathetic to the needs of users once you talk to more and more users directly.3. Participate in design hackathons and eventsI once mentored at a design-a-thon event at USC and since then, I’ve become a strong advocate for hackathons (a 24+ hour event where teams come up with innovative ideas and pitch their product solutions). You will be surprised about how much you can learn during these intense but fun events. You will get to meet talented designers and developers, learn how to work in a team, and practice your UX skills. You will see how an idea turns into a product, and how to best present your thoughts and designs. Each of these skills is critical for UX Designers. Plus, it’s always good to put some projects on your portfolio that demonstrate your ability to work collaboratively on a team.Asking the right questions is an artform and is something that I’m continually learning. Asking good, meaningful questions applies to many different roles, but it’s particularly important for a UX Designer. I have a really good story that demonstrates why this is.Once in my UX class, we invited a startup co-founder over and had all the students conduct an expert heuristic review for their website, helping them identify usability gaps in their product. The moment that I launched the company’s website, everyone started to give feedback right away.The discussion went on for almost 20 minutes and all of my students were happy with their critique and all the pieces of feedback they gave about the product.“The comments you gave are really good.” I said, “Here’s a quick question for our client: what kind of e-commerce do you do?”The startup co-founder replied, “well, we do Everyone in the class became silent after hearing the answer. Everything they said all of a sudden became insignificant. Of course customers need to “call for price”, because the client is doing wholesale. Of course the website has different listings for different colors, because the price and technical specs are all different. All of a sudden the real usability problem became that the website failed to indicate that they only do wholesale. A few months after the client came to visit the class, and after all my students from that Boot Camp had graduated, I was still getting texts from them: “I will never forget the client who does wholesale. I think that is the first time I really understood what UX is and what it takes to become a UX Designer.”I guess this is the best way to educate them on one of the most important things about UX: know your customer and forget about your personal preferences. In addition, asking meaningful questions is far more important than stating facts or giving opinions about a given design. For example, instead of saying “I don’t think you should use this font”, try to ask “why did you choose this particular font?” Try doing this for a few weeks and you will be surprised with the outcome.Teaching UX has been a fun journey for me and it feels extremely good knowing that you can help people launch their careers in UX. If you are also trying to become a UX Designer, I hope I’ve offered some useful insights and starting points. Best of luck!Sr. Product Designer@SalesforceIQIdeas and Case Studies From the Design Team at SalesforceIQ

Many people claim there’s a big difference between a UX Designer and a UI Designer. It’s true, but in reality, the UX is designed only by the collaborative work of the entire team.Let’s face it, the ideal world of a UX Designer working in collaboration with the team through the entire process is rare. In most places I’ve worked for, eventually the designers, developers and product managers need to solve many UX problems themselves.This is not true for UI Design, Front-End development or Back-End development. For example, usually the Front-End code is determined by the Front-End developer only.To better explain this problem, I will use a fictional product I invented (copied from Gmail), called Assume that we have a basic wireframe for the app, done by the UX person after some proper research.After it was approved by the big bosses, it was sent along with some more states and screens to the designers. Everybody loved the UX and thought nothing can go wrong.Two different designers worked on two different versions. The results were interesting.So now, the chosen design was handed off to two Front-End Developers. Again — they both hold two different approaches regarding UX.So one of the developers was fired :) but the other passed his code to the Server Side Developers! Their job is to populate the UI with the real content from the database. Let’s see what they came up with.

Alcatel wanted to produce an affordable and easy to use device for beginners. It had to be simpler than Android Wear so non-techies could use it without learning. Another important requirement was better power efficiency as opposed to Android wear. These were the factors that made us build an OS from the ground up.I joined the company and took over the Watch project when the hardware was fixed. A round display with a flat bottom, one side button and one front button was what I had to work with. The screen is 240x204 px cut at the bottom. The cut is a technical limitation, added to balance size, energy efficiency, brightness and cost.The research team provides us with a competitor analysis, focus group data on user expectations, pain points and feature popularity. The direction was set. Alcatel Watch buyers are:Originally the feature set included:Later we added support for iOS and features such as weather, workout tracker, themes. Even now, we’re working on adding more, but that’s another story.In this story, I focus on my part — interaction, motion and visual design. I skip the early design stages such as preliminary research, as it was done before I joined.The initial concept of the UX was minimalistic.Unfortunately, Bluetooth bandwidth wasn’t enough for instantly displaying dynamic graphics such as album cover or caller photo. For the next iteration, I had to reconcile myself with the limitations and become more realistic.Now, we received our first working prototype.After some testing sessions we found several serious problems:We couldn’t accept these flaws and decided to postpone the launch date in order to improve the navigation scheme.I came up with two new interaction concepts.After review, everyone agreed that a smartwatch is first of all a watch, thus we chose the first concept.We removed the settings submenu to simplify navigation even further. Setting screens were replaced with toggle buttons in the menu. If too many functions were added, we could re-add submenus.During one of our testing iterations we found that users would touch the Back button more times than needed, and they would turn the menu on and off multiple times after returning to the home screen. To prevent this, I changed the interaction to open the menu only when pressing the screen.Does it look too simple? The goal was to make it as simple as possible, to facilitate our target audience. I thought out more cool features and interactions, but can’t show them as we’re still exploring possibilities for future versions.The main navigation scheme was decided, but how would the menu work?We still wanted to reduce user mistakes within the small screen. We determined the minimum touch area size for first tier functions, and decided four buttons was the optimal number of items supported by the screen. Menu proposals were:We decided option 1 was the most usable and didn’t interfere with notifications. Below in the Visual Design part you can find our exploration.The outer shape was square to make icons look as big as possible, the inner shape was circular and visually corresponded with the function. Tapping a function would zoom in on the button, transforming the icon into a fullscreen function.Also we explored the idea of having “live” menu icons, so that user could check weather and daily activity progress without entering the function. However, this would affect performance when opening the menu and complicate things a lot.First of all, when notifications are received, they pop up and the watch vibrates. We also wanted to allow users to check notifications later without leaving the current function, so I had to find a way to call the notification area from any screen.It would be logical to copy the phone’s behaviour — swipe down to open notifications and up to close, but people would often close notifications by mistake trying to scroll the text down. It’s also more intuitive to swipe from a flat rather than circular part of the screen. That being said, I decided to swipe up from the screen bottom to call notifications and swipe down to close.For social networking services (SNS) notifications, we could only mirror the phone notification area (no dismiss or snooze), and only for a small selection of apps. User could select which apps to get notifications from via accompanying mobile application.The initial idea was a chronologically ordered list, but this would be inefficient on such a small screen. So I decided to group notifications by app. Horizontal swiping would switch apps, vertical swiping would scroll app content.I also had to design modal notifications that required user action. These would pop up unexpectedly causing misoperations. The best solution we explored was sliding buttons with animated arrows. People get ready to this interaction when they unpack their watches and confirm selected language: “Slide left to confirm Apart from events and SNS, we had system notifications such as low battery warning, function auto dismissal, connectivity warnings, etc.A must have function in a smartwatch is an activity tracker. Initial requirements included steps, distance and calories. Based on research, I merged the activity tracker with sleep tracker, to keep all daily progress in one place.At some point we decided to display more specific data such as active minutes and overall progress on the main activity screen.The watch could recognize walking and running, deep and light sleep and awake time. I had to find a way to display all this data on such a small screen. After experimenting, I added small icons into the progress bars. No translation issues, it doesn’t take space and adds no clutter or extra interaction.This scheme did raise many questions on calculation. For example, what time was used for sleep calculation? Midnight to midnight? What if you sleep early? We decided to track sleep from noon to noon; this includes even siestas.In upcoming generations we plan to include motivational notifications and reminders, more comprehensive data and may be even support for third party applications such as Strava, Runkeeper, MyFitnessPal…Initially we planned to only launch a black watch, but later Alcatel decided to also ship a white version, so we added a white theme to match watch case. Because the black theme works well in low-light conditions and saves battery, we allowed users to switch.Our heart sensor could measure manually as well as continuously. Manual is straightforward, but how could people activate continuous measurement? How could we optimize power consumption?This was pretty complex, so we decided to make a manual Heart Rate a dedicated function — tap to get a result. To preserve battery, we only used continuous measurement while the Workout mode was active.Originally I was thinking of upcoming hourly data for the main weather screen, but it looked pretty complex and not visually appealing enough. We simplified, tried animated backgrounds for different weather conditions, but animations couldn’t be smooth.Finally we decided to have a special background image for each weather and time of the day: morning, day, evening, night.Unexpectedly, weather raised more questions than any other function. We had to get the location in a simple way without bothering the user with GPS permissions, to figure out how often it would update and how to display the latest update time and what would happen if there was no internet connection. The back end logic behind weather turned out pretty sophisticated.Another complicated UX problem was music player control. We explored two options:We went with the second option since it was more minimalistic and looked more appealing.To simplify customers’ choice and to catch the fast-approaching deadline, we limited the amount of watch face options. These were:First, we tried to make analogue watch hands as a bitmap images, but spinning hands weren’t sharp, so engineers had to draw the hands by code. Another reason to keep the design as simple as possible.As the watch face is the default screen, it has to inform of all important events at first glance. If you have missed notifications, you will see notifications icon and missed call(s) icon right on the watch face. If you left a function without stopping it (i.e. workout), you will see a workout icon, so you know it’s still tracking and measuring your heart rate consuming battery power.When you turn on the screen, you see the battery icon. If the battery level is normal, the icon disappears to reduce clutter, if the level is critical, it will stay.To inform the battery level more efficiently, the watch displays a modal view with a big battery indicator when the level is critical. The same happens when the watch is fully charged. Also we found it useful to show the same notification on your phone (optionally).To keep things intuitive for the user, all three faces use the same layout. An added bonus was that this saved time for the engineers and allowed them to focus on other critical tasks.I’ve never been a fan of skeuomorphic design in digital devices, simply because looking real is not being real. I played with minimalistic designs without gradients, textures, shadows and other real world elements. This worked well with the black background, which made the screen borders invisible on black watch.We allowed users to use both preinstalled and custom wallpapers with all watch faces. The watch face would be white to not interfere with wallpaper colors. Here are some wallpapers that can be installed from the Onetouch Move app:For the watch, we show the face by default. But if a function is running in the background, what should we display? Does the user want to see the time or control his music? After quite a debate, we defined several options:Finally, we created a pretty sophisticated logic table for each function; if the watch is activated during a limited period of time, we show the function. After a longer time, it resets and shows the watch face. Additionally, I added a quick way to see the time; press and hold the front button to see a semitransparent layer with the time.You can find the original size (53 million 820 thousand pixels) of the diagram on my We chose a minimalistic flat style based on test feedback, colleagues feedback, surveys and today’s trends.Alcatel Watch had to support languages such as Chinese and Japanese, with its vast amount of characters, this and limited memory meant we could use only one font size for the full character set. After playing around with many font sizes, I chose one that was optimal in terms of readability, spacing and visual appeal. Only for numbers we could increase the font size, as it had a limited character set.For the full character set font we decided to use Droid as it was designed and optimized for low pixel density screens and looked better on the screen. The bigger font used for numbers was Roboto.Another good challenge was to come up with clear but concise text given the lack of screen real estate. What looks good in English, often doesn’t fit the screen in German.Animations were the most anticipated and at the same time painful part of the project. We implemented the most vital animations like camera shutter release or heart rate measurement progress, but couldn’t achieve good enough result with more complex animations containing multiple layers or semi-transparent elements.It was a lot of fun and very insightful to observe how people of different age groups, from different nationalities, with different backgrounds and computer experience used the product we had built and failed some tasks badly.Most of the failed tasks were during the onboarding process. The users had to switch too much between the Watch and phone; for example, we had one tutorial animation explaining the Watch interaction on the phone. The problem was that users wanted to try it on their Watch and missed critical information, such as how to open notifications or use the back button.We changed the tutorial into a swipeable carousel, with short animations for each new piece of info. This way, the users could immediately try out the instruction on their Watch and proceed at their own pace.Another issue was value proposition. We wanted users to sign up for an account, but found that they didn’t see the added value. We entered a screen explaining the benefit of an online account (data backup and an online platform). We also added a startup screen explaining what the companion app did, and if users didn’t have a Watch, where they could buy one.If you dig into user onboarding flows, you might also be interested in my Working on the Alcatel Watch proved a priceless experience, as I learned a lot about manufacturing and designing for hardware.Creating hardware is to define priorities and find a balance between cost, functionality, ease of use, performance, power consumption, size, looks, ergonomics and time to market, constantly pressing the scales to the side with the highest priority. Because of the limitations, it’s impossible to make each of these aspects perfect, you have to make a trade-off.You also have to shift your mind-set about good design. As a designer you might like trendy minimalist design, but real target audience might think this cutting edge design looks cheap or boring. Obvious interaction schemes to us designers can sometimes cripple inexperienced people. I learned how critical it is to understand the real target consumers.User testing opened our eyes on problems we didn’t even realize existed. Test your product on real users on different stages of development. The earlier you start, the better.I also found it’s possible to expand your influence on decision making even out of your competence if you:In the end, I believe we did a great job. We created the first smart wearable device with home built OS which has received critical acclaim, we learned a lot, and I’m proud to be a part of this story.Special thanks go out to Anthony Sarnes for believing in and hiring me; Dan Dery, Alain Lejeune and Will Dowey for trusting, pushing the team to the limit, their cool ideas and attention to detail; Xu Yi for managing the project; Zhang Li for the software; CW Park for the industrial design; Jingzhi Ding for the Onetouch Move interaction design; Joren Bredman for user testing, language control and his many random initiatives that helped us improve.If you have any questions, suggestions, or you want to say Check out Please click that nice Heart icon below if you enjoyed this piece :)Product Designer at Alcatel Onetouch. dnevozhai.comUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

As we’ve been researching what design teams need to do to create great user experiences, we’ve stumbled across an interesting finding. It’s the closest thing we’ve found to a silver bullet when it comes to reliably improving the designs teams produce. This solution is so simple that we didn’t believe it at first. After all, if it was this easy, why isn’t everyone already doing it?To make sure, we’ve spent the last few years working directly with teams, showing them what we found and helping them do it themselves. By golly, it actually worked. We were stunned.The solution? Exposure hours. The number of hours each team member is exposed directly to real users interacting with the team’s designs or the team’s competitor’s designs. There is a direct correlation between this exposure and the improvements we see in the designs that team produces.For more than 20 years, we’ve known that teams spending time watching users, can see improvements. Yet we still see many teams with regular user research programs that produce complicated, unusable products. We couldn’t understand why, until now.Each team member has to be exposed directly to the users themselves. Teams that have dedicated user research professionals, who watch the users, then in turn, report the results through documents or videos, don’t deliver the same benefits. It’s from the direct exposure to the users that we see the improvements in the design.Over the years, there has been plenty of debate over how many participants are enough for a study. It turns out we were looking in the wrong direction. When you focus on the hours of exposure, the number of participants disappears as an important discussion. We found 2 hours of direct exposure with one participant could be as valuable (if not more valuable) than eight participants at 15-minutes each. The two hours with that one participant, seeing the detailed subtleties and nuances of their interactions with the design, can drive a tremendous amount of actionable value to the team, when done well.As we watched different teams go through this process, we started to notice some repeatable patterns. For example, many teams spent little time watching their users. Often these teams had successful, profitable products that had evolved over many years into very complicated designs, chock full of features that users found hard to find and often frustrating to use.Before they began watching users, the teams would frequently find themselves at odds in meetings. They knew that the product was getting more complex, but nobody had any real information about how the product was being used. Stakeholders would ask for features without giving any useful details to the team to implement. An attitude of “Let’s build it, and if we get it wrong, we’ll fix it” would prevail.For teams like these, we often choose a field visit as their first foray into watching their users. Field visits are great because we get to see what the users do in their natural environment. It doesn’t require prior knowledge of what the proper tasks in the design are. We interview the user, uncover their goals and objectives, and then ask them to use the product or service to accomplish those.A typical field visit is two hours. Usually with ten to twelve visits, each team member can get at least eight hours of exposure to a minimum of four different users, each trying to use the design in interesting ways.The results are typically a list of easy fixes. One recent 12-visit venture with a 10-member team produced 350 items on their list of quick fixes. The product improvements started showing up in just a matter of weeks.We saw many teams that conducted a study once a year or even less. These teams struggled virtually the same as teams who didn’t do any research at all. Their designs became more complex and their users reported more frustration as they kept adding new features and capabilities.The teams with the best results were those that kept up the research on an ongoing basis. It seems that six weeks was the bare minimum for a two-hour exposure dose. The teams with members who spent the minimum of two hours every six weeks saw far greater improvements to their design’s user experience than teams who didn’t meet the minimum. And teams with more frequent exposure, say two-hours every three weeks, saw even better results.We think there are two reasons the frequency turns out to be important. First is the way memory works. It’s harder to remember someone you’ve met more than six weeks ago than someone you’ve met last week. If we want our users and their needs to be present in our minds as we’re creating our designs, we need to regularly see them.The second reason has to do with the pain of an ongoing frustration. It’s painful to watch someone struggle with your design. It’s even more painful to come back a few weeks later and see someone else struggle with the same problem again. The more times we’re exposed to those struggles, the more frustrated we get, the more we want to fix those problems. (And the happier we’ll be when we finally see someone who breezes right through with our new design.)Some problems are particularly gnarly. Seeing these problems repeat, in the field and in the lab, gives us insights into the nuances behind their potential causes. Testing out new design ideas can help us get to a solution faster. A regular exposure program makes that happen even better.By having a six-week minimum to our exposure, we leverage these two factors, making our users and their needs the driver of the design work we’re doing on any given day.Field visits aren’t the only form of exposure we found that works. Usability tests, both in-person and remote, can be very effective. (We found a mixture of both works better than 100% remote sessions.) Once you know the tasks that users naturally use with the design (because you discovered them during your field visits), it’s easy to construct realistic scenarios for usability testing.For folks heavily involved with a style of self-design, using it themselves for real work also can contribute. (For more about self-design, see my recent article, Watching users work with competitive designs also is important. Seeing them work through those same tasks with someone else’s design can help identify where there are gaps in your own design. It also makes it easy to point out where your advantages lie.Our research had a finding that took us by surprise: Teams that excluded non-design personnel didn’t see the same advantages as teams that included those people.For example, we worked with teams where only the designers and developers were having regular exposure to their users. Stakeholders, such as product managers and executives, along with other non-design folks, like technical support liaisons and quality assurance management, didn’t participate in the field studies or usability tests. While the core design team became very familiar with what users needed and wanted, they were constantly battling with these other individuals who didn’t have the same experiences.The tipping point came when we found teams where all these other folks were participating in the user research studies. No longer did they assert their own opinions of the design direction above what the research findings were telling the teams. Having the execs, stakeholders, and other non-design folks part of the exposure program produced a more user-focused process overall.Exposure is easy to measure. You can just count the hours everyone has had participating in the studies. We’re seeing teams make it part of their quarterly performance reviews, sending a clear message of the importance of user experience, especially when all the influencers are measured the same way.Granted, we admit our data could be flawed. There could be other factors here. However, we’ve tested every possible theory, spent time reviewing every factor we could imagine, and we keep coming back to this one item: Get every member on the team to spend two hours every six weeks and you’ll likely have a great user experience appear before your very eyes.Thank you for encouraging my behavior! Founder of 

User Interfaces should be predictable. Not like suspense thrillers where you don’t know what’s coming next. Users When I am on a web page and come across a link, there are times when I would like not to leave the current page and open the link in a new tab or in a new window, and there are times when I am okay with the link opening in the same page.For instance let’s say I would like to take a quick look at my Medium profile while I am writing this article in the Medium editorI would not like the profile page to replace the editor in this case but rather would like it to open in a separate tab. If this had been a desktop or a mobile app, I would have been sure of the profile page replacing the current one. This should give you the idea of the problem I am talking about here.As a result I find myself doing this a lot whenever I come across a link, right click - open in new tab/window or use the shortcut ( command + click ) . It Though subtle or may be We need an indicator icon, that shows up when hovering over a link to tell whether the intended page will open in (a) new tab, (b) new window or (c) in the current page, the second being very rare nowadays, but let us still consider it as an option.If you can’t make out, the first icon indicates the link will open in a new tab, the second, in a new window and the third tells clicking on the link will open the page in the current page, replacing the existing content.Allow me to explain the third icon, it’s not all that complicated. Picture an arrow with a conical head coming towards you, what do you see? Exactly.Here are a couple more revisions of the icons.I settled with these basic shapes.The question that comes up next is where do you position these icons? We can put them on the left of the hovered link, but there are things like bullet lists and that might conflict with this choice of position. Moreover placing these icons beside link texts can result in hiding the text written on sides of inline links.Another option is to transform the cursor itself into the required indicator icon, let’s try not to discuss this.Top seems fine or bottom when the window runs out of room.So here is how the flow goes, find a link you’d like to visit and hover over it. The Indicator icon pops up showing where the linked page will open in.Not only that, now move your cursor over the icon to be presented with other options to open the same link in different locations.The gif below shows an use case of this solution.What do you think, is this a problem worth solving ? I would love to hear your thoughts, go ahead, tweet them Thanks for reading, have a good one!P.S : I am looking for a Summer Internship, if this is your thing or know someone who can help please shoot an email at Designs and Builds SoftwareReviews, journeys and analysis about using Indian websites, apps and services. Also thoughts and writings by Indian UXers/Design Thinkers.

User Experience has transformed a lot in the recent years. Undeniably it has become an indispensable practice, for any online (and not only) product. Trying to identify trends is fun but merely impossible to understand what’s here to stay.Below is an observation of trends that has a wide spectrum on both desktop and mobile usage.We love to scroll. We love it Examples are already out. With performance always in mind designers try to find the balance in the best scrolling interaction for the user.Small phones are so cool and they fit in our pockets. And also… they are not small anymore. Even iPhones. Ever heard of the term phablet? Yes that is somewhere in the middle, but they do exist. So design should be adapted for those devices as well, because Trend-setters like Google and Material design, shift design to more clean and flat features.Typography, colors and use of “white” space become the center of this trend and (finally!) we observe the death of Skeuomorphism.I hope I am not the only one who is super excited about animations. As users, with technology everywhere in our lives, we become more demanding to what we want to experience from a website or an application.Motion graphics and microinteractions, add a level of gamification and perhaps it is time we see more enjoyable experiences and interactive stories rather than good ol-boring sites.Sometimes a great user experience does have the minimum amount of design. Maybe just colors and typography. Typography is a very popular subject, and by itself can be a really masterful UX experience.Designing for cross platform is nice but performance plays a huge role. A website that takes too long to load, or even just a few images can crumble the experience of the user that might lead to abandoning the website.-How do you optimize for different devices?-How fast is a website?-How about on the phone?Trends are creating experiences for users but also expectations. It comes naturally for a mobile user to expect a website to have basic interaction patterns. Scroll through the content, or use a key to navigate down.What does that game access through your Facebook? What about a website that you login with Twitter?Trust  personal data are a challenge to balance; Visual Design, User Experience, Branding.a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

The web has evolved exponentially since the ugly pages of the 90s. A website at a time, companies and designers figured out that hey, I can do this differently. Let’s try. We did try a lot, we still do. UX has not come into any final stage. Nor will it ever. It is a craft that will keep evolving. And this is pretty damn awesome.Internet has become part of our lives in such an extent, that one way or another, sometime somehow, you will have to use it at least once per day. Be it a transaction, seeking information, stalk your soulmate or just listen to music. And users are becoming more intuitive to it. Of course there are demographics of older people who are less competent than a todays 20 year old, but even in those ages people are getting the hang of it.As human beings we are always trying to recognise patterns. Our brains work just like that. So remember some people complaining that all websites now look the same? Well… is it too bad? Not for my uncle John Doe.Okay so this premise is fairly simple. In my opinion Before this bloated term drive you away give me one minute here to explain myself. UX is the simple and sophisticated representation of content. And content is on the basis of UX. This is a simple formula that leads us to a fine result. Great design is transparent.A successful interaction leaves you with a great experience of a service, app or website. Your thoughts afterwards can be “wow, that was a great UX design right there”, but the immediate connections should always be the subject; the reason you are using this service, app, or website right now.A great website with one-page scroll storytelling. An app with beautiful microinteractions that gamify your experience. A minimal form that does not even require you to click. Gestures and hotkeys that boost your experience with a service.Well not the craft itself, but people who dare. A quick example is how software slowly revolutionises the car industry. Tesla being a pioneer in that, we observe that there is still so much room for improvement. Data is penetrating every aspect of our lives, and so UX is needed to keep frustration away (or too close).Of course there are bad aspects to this popularity boost, however it is only natural to be part of a craft that is evolving. And with more people getting their mindset UX-wise, we expect to gain more educated knowledge on the craft. If you know what you are doing, you should be able to identify bad from good examples and filter your information flow.Visual Design, User Experience, Branding.a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

As we have already mentioned The question is: Virality is the concept behind which we understand fast and easy self-promotion of the product among users. Like a kind of infectious desease, it spreads from one person to the other and no special efforts are needed to support this process. Organic growth of this sort of product is coming from recommendations and sharing. Making the product viral is a dream of any customer who sets it on the market and therefore any designer who is keen to create something successful and widely known.Initially and traditionally, production of this «gene of virality» and «infecting» the product with it was entrusted to marketologists and advertisers. They analyse the target audience, research the market and develop the strategy according to which they directly or indirectly stimulate the users to share the product and create its solid presence on the market. In the sphere of promotion it is a well-known law that the best advertising is word-of-mouth one that is based on personal recommendations. The strategy and means of making the product viral can be thought out and agreed upon not only when the product is created but also much earlier, on the stages of its physical or even conceptual creation.Nevertheless, now virality goes far beyond the marketing process, especially when it comes to web and app design products. Practice shows that there are some things to consider and some mechanisms to apply in the process of UX/UI design in order to make the product more or less viral that means promoted by users and therefore saving time, money and efforts on marketing.Any designer knows that predesign stage is as important as the time for actual work on design creation. Design should be based on solving problems and giving positive experience, so it’s not only the visual, but also psychological thing. This stage is vital for any kind of product, but if you have the aim to make your product viral, it requires even more attention and deeper analysis. So, here is the list of some things to consider at this stage in the aspect of potential virality of the product.The mistake of some products which haven’t become really successful and wide-spread is the attempt to solve a lot of problems at the same moment. This way is not only really complex and needs much deeper analysis at the pre-design stage, but also can be a bit confusing for the users who sometimes will not be able to distinguish the real aim of the product at once. So, first of all define clearly who is your core target audience, what is there major pain and how to help them. Don’t become the hunter who tries to kill two birds with one stone otherwise it’s easy to forget about virality, although you may create a great multifunctional product. It’s better to add functionality and expand your target audience step-by-step rather than to start everything together and at the same moment.When you have defined your target audience and you want to make them promote your product through word of mouth, you should touch their souls and feelings. You will make people tell about the product if you create strong feeling about it. Therefore, you should analyze their needs and typical demographic characteristics to create noticeable emotional response which they would like to share with others. By the way, this response can be absolutely different depending on the aim of the product: you can awe them, shock them, scare them, inspire them, enchant them — any strong feeling will encourage the user to tell someone about the experience, to share it with others.There are a lot of practical examples how simple ideas based on some wide-spread needs, wishes or hobbies rocketed to success. Take Instagram, which started as the simple service of sharing photos for those who like this type of presenting themselves, or Pinterest, which started as the simple storage for interesting links. Now they are large-scale multipurpose services not only for personal but also for business needs, but they started from very basic needs which a lot of users could not satisfy in fast and easy way. It is vital just to find the problem which makes a lot of people suffer and they will unite around its solution.There are two effective ways to make your product fast promoted but they are first of all based on your decision if you are aiming at long-term or short-term perspective. If you want to create a long-term product that is going to become viral, then your way is to think on the problem globally and create the original product solving the wide-spread problem. It will take more time and effort, but it also creates a long-term prospective way. On the other hand, if you want something that will make your name with less efforts and quicker spread, there is one more way: you can find drawbacks and bugs in existing popular products and create solutions for them. This is usually the short-term perspective, but it can be helpful to get well-known on the basis of already promoted products.In both cases it is important to concentrate on originality, not copying. Don’t try to create the second Facebook. Try to find the first your own product or at least feature that solves a problem which earlier couldn’t be solved or can make previous solutions done better, faster or easier and people will do the promotion for you.People love when they are offered not only deeply serious things, but also the element of the game or fun. Even highly scientific or business-like product can contain some elements of fun, which will make the product more widely discussed.This is one of the most efficient techniques which approved itself in numerous cases. When you create the great product, its quality can make people talk about it and it will attract some attention. But if you promise the person something useful and beneficial, they start acting to satisfy their needs and at the same time attract new people to use your product directly. It can be more space in a virtual storage, some exclusive bonuses in the games or the discounts on the goods — anyway, it will make users work as your most powerful weapon of product promotion.All the mentioned points would better be decided and agreed upon before you actually start the process of UX/UI design so that on this stages you could polish your strategy by tactic steps.In the process of UX design for potentially viral product your main aim is to create as positive user experience as possible. Actually, it is required for any UX, but for the viral one it’s vital. And you can make it with the following steps.Users don’t really like when they feel that they are forced to do something. To make the experience pleasant, you should think how to create the illusion of choice sometimes even in obvious things. Users should be guided invisibly through the though-out navigation and layout but at the same time they should feel that they are real decision-makers at any step of their way. The absence of this feature can be dangerous for virality of your product.Games can be different and they are not only for kids. Sure, the more serious is the product, the more hidden the element of game will be. It is up to you, what part of your product will be infected with the direct or indirect gaming virus, but if you think over this sophisticated thing, it will work for you in spreading the product.We can often hear that designers should put a part of their soul in the projects they are working on. And that is not a joke, especially when it comes to potentially viral product. When the designer gets dip into the task and tries to solve it as if it was their own problem, when designers look into the user’s problem and penetrate into it, it always gives the products of high-quality user-friendly and pleasant UX. Users don’t only use the product, but also feel the product, its temper and its energy. And when the designer creates it cordially, not only mechanically, user will feel and appreciate it.This may be the main point to consider at UX stage of the process. It is essential to analyze not only the whole concept of the product but also all the steps that users are going to do. This is the time when user stories and cases are going to be extremely helpful. When you think over them, you will be able to bring forward the features at that very moment when they are most needed. And it will inevitably create positive experience which deserves to be shared with other users through positive recommendations.Social network are the great basis for virality of a product, so it’s vital to think if they are going to deal with it and how. You can (and should if possible) simplify the sign-up and log-in procedures with social networks, you can think how to encourage people to share their achievements or inform their friends and followers about using your product. It will create strong and various web presence and will open the door to viral promotion of the product.UI stage is more about visual representation of the web or app product, so it’s easy to think that there’s nothing to do here because the most important basics of virality must have already been completed at UX stage. However, there are a lot of important points which can expand and enforce the virality of the product on this stage. And we see them as the following:At this stage it’s very important to think of high-quality of graphic elements including the smallest ones. Depending on the nature of the product and target audience, you may use interesting illustrations, nice photos, funny characters and the like to make the website or application visually appealing so much that people will be keen to show this “So nice! So cute! So stylish! So beautiful” something to their friends or colleagues. Traditional exchange like: “Have you seen that funny cat in the new calculator on PlayMarket? No? Still no? I can’t believe it, it’s co cute!” is able to virally promote the product even when it has no incredibly unique solutions to global problems.When you consider how to make the product viral right from the first steps of creating and designing its concept, it’s easy to get into two well-known traps. One of them is to think that virality is the feature of only useful products, i.e. visual representation doesn’t matter. The opposite side of this fight says that only visual features really matter when you want to make your product viral. As you can assume from everything mentioned above, we would recommend to keep the balance and find the happy medium. That is why it is important to think out and include different tactics at all the stages of design process. That doesn’t mean you have to apply all the positions mentioned above in one particular design process as the choice of techniques depends deeply on the nature of the product and the target audience. However, thinking over all of the positions and applying those which are appropriate will bring massive result in the aspect of virality. As practice shows, only in this case your product will get truly viral through utility, usability and pleasant looks. All of this features will bring out desirability which is so important to make people want to share the product with others and promote it this way.As usual, we are open to share our experience and ideas and are going to continue in next posts in our We are a comprehensive team of designers specializing in mobile/web interfaces, UI/UX, icons, logos and branding. We don’t look for solutions. We create them.

The other day on Online anchor links suck.To save you the time of having to read his entire article, the gist was this: links are simply not prescriptive enough. Meaning that when a user clicks on a link within any given website, there is always a level of uncertainty about The user has no idea.He brought up a really great point about control. I, like him, often find myself using the addition of Command key with a link click to make sure that I know where the link will open in my browser. It seems to me, that the control has always been skewed to the side of the developer. The developer gets the luxury of discerning the experience for the user. It’s always been a siloed decision. Even from the user.So how do we fix it? How do we show the user and kill that uncertainty? How do we make clicking less of a commitment?If you have the time, definitely give Vail’s article a read—it’s pretty quick. He goes through his process in which he designs out some icons and comes up with an interaction model in which, upon hover, the icons would appear giving the user a choice of where to open said link.I love it. I think it’s an excellent idea and a great first stab at solving a pretty annoying problem.The problems I saw in his approach were these: 1) How would this work on mobile? 2) How do we make the decision of where to open a link amicable between the user and the designer (or developer)? 3) How do you train the meaning of the icons, or the behavior itself, to the end user?Number 1 was easy. Number 2, not as simple. Number 3 is a complicated one, but could also be overcome.I decided to start by taking his idea of icons a bit further and envisioned a world where this might one day become a powerful default browser function instead of just a neat one-off plugin.I took the approach of thinking for both the dev and the user at the same time. What if this was a css rule that we could one day write in? Still have our decision making on the product side, but make it very clear for the user where the window would open, and then allow them to either go for the default, or choose their own path? Have some sort of element—As you can see above, I ended up taking the same icons he designed and just applied them a bit differently to solve for the issue. In his model, one would hover What if these icons were just a part of It would give the end-user an exact idea of what will happen when they click on the link and, essentially, reduce the need for the Command + Click method! Brilliant!But wait, what if I don’t agree with the decision made by the designer/dev and just want to open it my way?Well, here’s where I ended up solving the two problems I mentioned earlier.I still liked the idea of some sort of hover event for the decision, but I didn’t want to let it get in the way of any regular click. If every click has to have a hover - click process, it felt like it would become an even bigger process for someone to commit to the click. So I figured, kill half the median and you’ve solved have the problem.As you can see above, I ended up solving this by using a hover event on the new anchor element. I added a hover/tap zone on the element itself and also envisioned this as a default anchor behavior. Hover/tap for the context, then choose your method. Hold the hover or press for some detail.As you can see, this was a pretty simple solve (on a conceptual level anyway). However, the real reason that I was so excited about this topic and approach for the fix was this:What if one day browser manufacturers and web standards peeps were taking their methods further and, instead of introducing new elements and css rules in to the develop-o-sphere for the sake of making dev’s lives easier, they started thinking about how to make the end user (and by extension, the developer’s and designer’s) lives easier?Of course, this is through the lens of someone who’s ignorant in what goes into the process of introducing such things, but to me this all seems like a pretty simple addition into the lexicon of the web and has a huge level of added impact into the interface for the user And also, of course, I’m not blind to the fact that certain affordances like the ever present default text-decoration: underline exist, but shouldn’t we start thinking of introducing web elements that directly help the user and not just the person in charge of helping the user?Published inI fight for the users.Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

Collaboration between UX designers and product designers is crucial when building new products. That’s why we hosted a webinar with Nick Kroetz and Courtney Starr from Prolific Interactive about the good, the bad, and the ugly of UX design; how UX impacts projects; and how to scale the process at a growing company.Watch the full recording below, or read on for our short recap.Prolific Interactive’s advice: keep your teams small, with ideally 5–8 people on a project and 1 project at a time. This promotes both agility and individual responsibility.Ultimately, As Jared Spool said, “Executing When looking at a job applicant’s skills, remember that For example, when it comes to When hiring, Prolific Interactive uses a design challenge — available in Practice full transparency with your partners (what Prolific Interactive calls their clients). For example, sometimes users won’t like a feature requested by and loved by a stakeholder. No designer wants their work pushed around by a stakeholder, and no stakeholder intentionally wants to push their designs into something bad. Ultimately, the UX team should be the arbiter of information and constraints. The UX team’s work shouldn’t end in a report, it should end in designs.To make participant recruitment a bit easier, cast your net wide to reach people where they are. That might even mean testing in the brick and mortar stores of your partners.Use NDAs and participant agreements (get a sample in Think of Prolific Interactive mentioned a lot of great resources during their presentation, and they’re giving them to you for free! We’ll leave it to Ruohan to summarize the takeaways:Interested in learning more about building and fostering a design culture? Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

Is it like an either-or? One with a dash of the other?Like ordering a sandwich with just a tiny bit of mayo? Which one’s the sandwich and which is the mayo?Years ago, some colleagues and I used to joke about the way companies viewed UX. It sometimes seemed like a company would hire a UX designer and hope it would magically make their product better. Like they expected all we would have to do is show up and sprinkle our UX pixie dust around.We used to have to fight for UX every step of the way. By the early 2000s, companies had gotten the message that they needed to focus on UX if they want their product to be successful, so having a UX title on our resume got us in the door. But then we’d start hitting walls.Processes that worked just fine before UX was a priority, now needed to be revamped. Departments who never spoke to each other in the past were suddenly being asked to attend each other’s meetings. And making software user-friendly became notorious for doubling the amount of time it took to code.New startups, fortunately, now understand the importance of UX and include us in the early stages. We’re integrated into the team and hopefully given the leeway to experiment, research, and lead.In my That is extremely broad, intentionally, as it can be applied to any number of different companies, business models, and audiences. Let’s see if we can unpack some of that a bit. And in doing so, let’s talk about this UI/UX thing.Businesses have goals like:The goals in and of themselves have very little to do with UX. What UX is concerned with is the The answer to those questions might be:Reaching 1 million active users involves marketing — do people know about our company? If we’re reaching them, is our message resonating? Or are people interested in the marketing content but then losing interest before becoming a user? This might mean Maybe we If there is something about the interface of the product itself that is causing friction, we can Sometimes the problem isn’t the UI, maybe it’s a performance problem. Some users are experiencing slow loading in certain areas and dropping off. I’m describing one process for how a UX professional might work to accomplish business goals by following the customer journey. Hopefully this starts to show how broad UX can be. And did you notice a couple paragraphs ago how UI was one part of that?In our hypothetical example above, creating a desirable interface was one of potentially many ways to accomplish the business goals.The UI designer could be someone who focuses solely on making sure the interfaces they design meet those goals and nothing else.They could allow someone else on the team to define and communicate to them who the target audience is, what are their traits, behaviors, tech-savviness, etc. They could allow someone else on the product team to let them know which tasks are the key tasks that need to be elevated in the interface. They could allow a graphic designer to communicate to them the brand guidelines and aesthetic goals.They could delegate all those tasks to other team members UI design takes a lot of focus and skill. There are a lot of details to keep track of and find ways to simplify. Also, startups are constantly adding features and changing key tasks as they iterate and learn. Figuring out how to fit all that in while still creating a beautiful, delightful, and easy to use interface takes a lot of work. Generally, the more a good UI designer can focus on the interface, the better that interface will get.That’s not usually the way it goes though. The UI designer is often also the person doing at least some of those other tasks — defining the users, identifying conversion issues, defining the key tasks, creating the brand guidelines, defining new features, etc.I’d like companies to know which role they’re hiring for and ask clearly. When they say they want a UI/UX designer, are they hiring someone to focus on the UI, who might occasionally perform broader UX tasks? Or are they looking for someone to focus on the high-level overall UX, who might occasionally do some UI design tasks?Why is it the UI designer that gets called out for also requiring a UX skillset? Why don’t we see ads for Marketing/UX Manager roles? Or Sales/UX Representatives?As a hiring company, are you looking for someone who can create beautiful interfaces, who can also sprinkle some UX pixie dust around and make everything better?Or do you want someone who can dig in and work with multiple departments in your company to create a desired experience that meets your goals, some of which might include an aesthetically pleasing and easy to use interface?My hope with this post is to help companies see that there’s a great deal of time that goes into doing both UX design and UI design well, and that each of these things are very important and worthwhile. Startups have limited resources, yes, so make wise investments when hiring and make sure to set clear and realistic requirements when filling those roles.-UX design coach  mentor in San Francisco Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

Working at a tech startup in a leading UX role, I’m finding new ways to guide us in the right direction when I explore the structure that will shape our product in a couple of months.Right now my team members and I are making key decisions which determine what our product will be like, what it will offer and ultimately drive its level of success. In the last few weeks we have identified the major pain points of our potential users by research and initiating a dialogue. Understanding our users and the problems they’re experiencing, is absolutely necessary if we want to succeed.You cannot build a successful product if you don’t understand what issues your product is solving, because users don’t care about WhyBut when faced with the reality of an Agile development environment it becomes hard implementing what we’ve just learned. Since Agile and Scrum are development driven by nature, it will only address development related things and certainly won’t help doing product design. Therefor having an Agile framework in place is not sufficient if you consider the entire process of creating and designing a product from scratch.If you don’t have a clear vision, your team will become rudderless and they won’t understand where they’re going, let alone why they’re going there (which is a major energy sucker!) since their focus will be restricted to the 2 week sprint. You have to understand that your development team should be the ambassadors of the product or service they’re building. If you can’t get your own team onboard, how will you ever get potential users on board?! They need to live and breathe the vision and have a deep understanding of why you’re all doing this.If you prefer to create an experience, please read on.So how can we enable our team to create an experience — as a team? By having a clear vision of what our product will be, how we will accomplish this, but most importantly WHY we are doing this (for our users). This must be a shared understanding across all team members and only then will you be able to create a product which addresses the user’s pain points in a way that they will love.They help focus decisions andUsed to help determineTo assist us in creating a consistentLike specifications, they areWriting this article has accompanied me in creating our own UX Principles, to guide us in making the right(!) design decisions when we are in doubt. (And by So take a minute before writing any code, it will be worth it in the end!UX Architect @ Intelworks  evangelist of user centered design.a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

I spoke this week at a General Assembly QA session with 25 freshly minted graduates from their UX course. Many of the questions centred around how to structure portfolios ready for interview, how design at Atlassian works and how to break into the UX and design industry.1 question really stood out to me.I think my answer was not what the room was expecting to hear.Despite the rising tide of user experience over the years, getting buy in is still the hardest thing to do, and I believe it is a skill many designers lack. It is too often seen as the other persons issue for not being able to Being able to convince a stakeholder why fixing aspects of a user experience is so important is hard. Telling a CEO that the UI is As a designer it is part of your role to persuade, to convince, to tell a convincing story that helps the rest of the team understand the pain the customer is feeling with your product and why it is so important to fix.If you can’t tell a great story, you may become part of the most worrying trend I have seen. Where teams now hire UX people and just expect them to Hiring someone with an opinion isn’t the same as having a healthy design process.Understanding how to use data and qualitative feedback to help underline the importance of user experience problems and how to then use this information to tell a great story that convinces stakeholders is an art. And like any art 3 years ago there were only 6 designers at Atlassian. Now the team numbers over 60 and is growing fast as we become an experience led company. Design now has a permanent seat at the proverbial table. We design in conjunction with our product managers, developers, support teams and most importantly our customers.As a design team we are starting to tell better stories about our customers and sharing these within the organisation. We redeveloped our personas into a set of cards, specifically so they could be used as part of stories on our design walls.However, it has been a hard process to get here in such a short space of time. And we certainly haven’t solved all of the problems yet. We still encounter similar problems other software teams do. How do we prioritise the experience over adding another feature? What will the impact to our customers be? How do we tell a better story so that our PM and engineering teams So if you are new to design, or are frustrated at not being able to get to a shared understanding with your team about the customers problem, read a few books on Did you enjoy this post? Want more of the same? Consider following I help teams create engaging, sustainable product experiences…with the help of pencils, sharpies, post-its and collaborative thinking…Tales from the Atlassian design team

But first, let me tell you how I got here.What I really wanted to study though was journalism, as I’ve been writing extensively since the age of ten — and I developed a thorough understanding of how to write for engagement, gaining insights about how to approach different people with different messages. Of course, the fact that I got my first computer at the age of eight, in 1982, has also been beneficial to working with digital communication.So you’re not going to get a list of what classes you need to attend, what companies to approach, or what software to buy. I am certainly a firm believer of doing what you love, loving what you do and creating your own career path.And the true nature of UX is really part of anything and everything we do.Because you. Can not. Escape. Your brain.Thinking about how to give advice to someone pursuing a career in UX today, when so many professionals are still arguing about what that even means, I have to take a step back and look at the big picture of what makes me tick.Obviously, identifying that you want to work with UX is a fantastic first step. Understanding how that desire comes about in the people who have approached me I can see that the big attraction is the user part. In a broader sense: the desire to do help humans feel less pain when interacting with tools and services. Maybe even enjoy interacting with them (crazy thought!)So either your motivation can be helping organizations make more money by attracting more loyal users Having understood this you’ve already come a long way in you inner journey. Now let’s get to helping you make that journey a part of your purpose on Earth.In my talks I often reference the The widespread conclusion of studies conducted by Baumeister and his colleagues is that humans have a limited amount of cognitive energy. All conscious effort requires energy and when that energy is running low, humans become worse at maintaining self-control, poorer at decision-making and have an increased tendency to avoid anything that requires more cognitive energy.The term ego depletion is also closely related to the concept of This is where the concept of UX excels, at identifying all the touchpoints where people have a hard time with products and services (online or offline) and working hard at fixing those weaknesses.Some of those remedies could be:There is also the option of actually replenishing cognitive energy, through design that gives rise to the production of positive energy, and in essence: endorphins. This is usually where designers turn to the concept of gamification as well as try to appeal to more senses with multimedia.Of course, if your product is great, then it should actually already be helping people realize a positive change in their lives. I call that You need to be certain of this, though: The concept of the usability guru has been with me my whole career. Go to the guru at the top of the mountain (or in cubicle 33A), ask where the button shall be placed — maybe even what color it should be — and do whatever the guru says.A real UX advocate will recognize that her role is not to give general advice but to dig deep into users’ desires, wishes, challenges and fears — watch for patterns — and marry these insights with the same type of insights about the organization trying to connect with the users.Also: developers, customer service personnel, the receptionist… they all have great insights. Yes, even middle managers might have some great ones! Your job isn’t to tell people what to do, your job really is to get them into the mindset of thinking about and understanding the challenges of the end-user. Make them feel empathy for the people on the receiving end. You’re not going to be there to pick at every detail, it’s much better if everyone understands the challenges, the goals and priorities and can work that into how they approach their everyday work.If you are not prepared to sit in a meeting and have your design proposal challenged by a rookie javascript developer — recognizing that her ideas are valid and in many cases can be more viable than your own — then you are not there yet.Take a deep breath and realize you are not sitting with all the answers. The users are. Other people are.If you’re not being surprised by a lot of the stuff you learn, you’re probably not asking the right questions, or watching for the right things.For example: many users I interview and observe have various troubles using a computer. Some are taken aback by the thought of using a trackpad on a portable computer. Some don’t understand the concept of opening the same website in two different tabs. Some can’t copy/paste content using the keyboard. Things that I know would make their lives easier.One of your most important competencies to develop may well be the ability to conduct an open-ended interview where you actually listen to a person’s pain points well outside the realm of the specific service you are researching, can identify patterns in behavior, and not feel that twenty seconds of silence is awkward.Silence means a person is thinking. Don’t interrupt them. It’s those thoughts that will help you realize what problems to solve.One of the most common misconceptions about usability and UX is that it’s about making everything easy. And what happens is that you can be stuck in 2-hour meetings discussing what font size a breadcrumb link should be.But UX is about real people. For it to be easy your product would have to be about displaying a monosyllabic chant with an accompanying guttural sound. But we can’t all be You need to realize that a user interface is an enabler but also a hinderance on the way to what you really are trying to do for users:Think again. Humans are not easy. They’re complicated. That’s why UX is a thing.You are not always the creative who comes up with the solution. But you are the person who makes sure the solution works for the user.The UX responsible can often be perceived as a quite lonely role. But you need to be making friends all over.So my friend, what you need to excel at… is communication. Other people need to be confident that what you are saying is based on a solid understanding of the business, the product and the people on both ends. You need to be saying stuff like: “I’ve done this research and I’m confident that…” “I’ve aligned these tasks with business goals…” and “We have prioritized the functionality based on user insight, which has also been aligned with relative return on investment, affordability and urgency.”You need to befriend and understand all of those people because a service that doesn’t work across the board and makes anyone along the line miserable will in the end make users miserable, no matter how shiny and user-friendly it is. That’s why we obsess about story mapping.Remember this: if you get into UX now chances are pretty high you won’t be calling it that in 10 years time. Because more and more you understand how it is an integral part of what everyone in an organization should be doing.If you really are passionate about UX chances are pretty high you are already commenting on anything and everything in your life, noting how the logistics of the restaurant could be better, how managers use the wrong words when sending out newsletters, how the parking payment system is awry, how the waiting time in the emergency room could be put to better use or even how the inside of bathroom doors fail to signal to you if they are locked or not.Don’t stop doing that.So I realize that these high-and-mighty life lessons maybe aren’t helping you take the next step. But I really, really wanted you to consider them before taking the plunge. So what should your next step be?Well actually, here are six more tips (another list! yay!) to gently push you in the right direction:Because seriously, UX has been my playground for years and years. Truly understanding that your work, which actually means most people’s work, somewhere along the line affects whether real people frown or smile is enough for anyone to boost their job satisfaction.Did I say job? I meant passion.-Freelance consultant, speaker and coach working out of Stockholm, SE. More than 20 years of experience in human-centric digital design.  Co-host of Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

Many people have absolutely no idea about what a That’s why the first and most important point to be cleared is the difference between UX and UI designers by introducing them both in a simple example.The most convenient way to demonstrate this is by saying that our hypothetical product is aLet’s start with the Whereas the It’s obvious that neither one can be successful without the other.Who would want a On the contrary, who would want aThe scope of activities a UXD does has an immense range. It’s The job of a UXD starts before the project’s life cycle and doesn’t end with a plain mockup or a prototype, so it cannot be restrained to simple phases.Here are the key sections of a UXD’s job:As I’ve mentioned it before, a UXD has to excel in many things. A deep analysis of the competitors in the The first and probably the most important assignment of a UXD is to create the Then the rest of the work is done according to the potential clients’ taste.Visual design or graphic design is basically about theThis segment is almost like real architecture, because it is about the This area is made up of 5 equally important steps-or so-called dimensions-, each one following and connecting to one another.The most This may include the Physical object and space are also vital parts of the interaction design. In some circumstances time is not that crucial, but in case of In order to Usability is about meeting our According to the In line with the generally accepted framework, there are 5 subcategories to be taken care of:The mental models used in HCI help us to implement Being a manager is also an essential part for a UXD. If the designer cannot give presentations and If she doesn’t have Being able toThe 3 most important methods for this are Wireframing is the Prototyping occurs when the testers get the chance to A broad collection of tools are available for UXDs to ease and shorten the prototyping phase.Having made the wireframe, mockup, and prototype, the testing can be carried out.Some employers with considerable companies may say that this is not even a professional job: they do the same tasks, yet they don’t call themselves UX designers. My opinion is that it’s not that simple, Which makes this job more appealing is itsAs you can see, a UXD has anDid you like my article?(Ps. feel free to follow me on -UX designer ● marketing manager ● dog lover ● music addict ● dancer ● language fanatic ● dreamerHandpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

Another week, another few design meetups — it’s lovely chatting with other designers in the flesh.Today I met a graphic designer looking to make the switch to “UI/UX design.” They certainly weren’t the first, nor will they be the last; I found myself answering the same questions I’ve answered in hundreds of previous meet-ups.This time, I’ve written a few thoughts down so that next time, I can point the graphic designer here.You can easily start with online communities:When you get a chance, you should hang out in-person for a completely different experience. Join As far as Finally, this may sound intense, but Just when you would think the work is over, you’ve really only just begun. A great deal of learning only happens Learn to give up total control. Your work as an interaction designer can always be improved.On the flip side, you can’t keep polishing forever. Interaction design produces work that’s meant to be used. Software and websites need to be “shipped”, to make it into the hands of your users, the people you’re hoping to solve a problem for.Learning when enough is enough will take time, but with enough practice you’ll get it.That doesn’t mean it’s ok to lie about experience. Sure, you can give yourself the IxD title, but when looking for a job, be honest about your experience.Don’t worry, the world is craving Junior-level interaction designers, so you’ll fit in just fine.After LinkedIn, do the same on your other social networks. When you introduce yourself to someone in person, explain you’re an interaction designer, and try to explain what that means. The more you roll these thoughts around in your mind, the clearer they become.Besides, you should know that But trust me, I get how awkward it can feel. I spent years hiding behind “Oh, I’m just a web developer…” It wasn’t until I took a stand and affirmed in public “Yes, I am a designer” that it took hold. Don’t wait as long as I did. Start now.That sums it up. Two final notes: 1) If you want help preparing a UX portfolio, Fueling hungry people with great food Learn about design for digital products.

I just started my first full-time design job after a whirlwind 5 months of applications and interviews. I talked to hundreds of people and sat in over 50 rounds of interviews. While it made for great practice, here’s what I wish I had known to expect in the The behavioral interview never truly ends. Potential co-workers and bosses will constantly be probing your capacity for leadership, culture fit, and team work. Anything and everything in your portfolio and resume is fair game. These behavioral questions will pop out throughout the entire process.There is a proven strategy for answering behavioral questions, known as the Be sure you are prepared for these types of questions:I have also been advised to think of your career as a timeline. Emphasize where you are currently at in your career, but give a peek at how you got started and what you hope to achieve in the future. Introspection and constant self-development speaks volumes about potential for a young designer.Your portfolio is a direct representation of your design ability. It should be a curated collection of your best and most recent work. These interviews are typically conducted 1:1. Expectations vary among interviewers, so it’s always worth starting off by clarifying:A good guideline to follow when discussing a project is to:Typically rolled into the behavioral/portfolio review, but the question comes up often enough that it deserves its own category:This is easy to prepare for. Sit down, open your phone and pick your most commonly used apps. Why do you use them? What works well? What could be improved? Imagine you are part of the design team that made this app. What decision making was put into it and what were the tradeoffs?Ok, there’s actually two sub-categories here: the Instead of presenting 1:1 in the portfolio review, a portfolio presentation is conducted in front of 4–10 people. It may include the entire design team if the company is small enough! Some of the people in the audience will be interviewing individually later on and may reference your presentation.You will have 30–40 minutes for presentation, 10–15 minutes for questions. I recommend selecting 3–4 of your best projects, particularly side projects, passion projects, or ones that you’ve had a leading role in. The formula is not unlike how you would discuss your projects in a portfolio review, but in a portfolio presentation, you have much more control over the flow. I recommend making slides rather than scrolling through your portfolio. While engineering is rarely listed as a This kind of interview typically involves live-coding or white-boarding code. Using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to create a simple feature component are the minimum you should know. Interviewers will most likely be evaluating for ability to learn rather than raw competency, though brushing up doesn’t hurt. Use Google during the live-coding if you need to! If you genuinely want to work for a company that requires coding competency, but don’t have enough knowledge to comfortably take on an engineering exercise, voice this concern to your recruiter.The creativity litmus test. Part of the design process is generating lots of ideas and some really, really stupid ones. That’s ok. I’ll refer to You’re almost there! This is the ultimate test. The team brings you to work on a trial-run doing paid spec work. It’s like you’re almost part of the team. Make it look like you’re That’s all for now! There are many factors that goes into what combination of interviews you’ll encounter. Your recruiter is your best asset in understanding the company’s entire interview process. Sometimes, if they know the interviewer well enough, they’ll go out of their way to give you tips and tricks on what that interviewer likes to hear.And before I close this article, I’ll leave you with one last tip from my mentor Brian Kromrey at Google:Currently making in San Francisco and wearing crazy gadgets.a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

The Agile approach has in many organisations become the expected way of working. There have been many When building a The basic idea is to have a planned progression (leaving room for improvements through testing) of a feature that adds functionality at each stage.A common requirement of all our products (web applications for real time trading; foreign exchange, futures, bonds etc), is to be able to filter and sort very large tables of data. In one of our products we wanted to improve how we did this to make it more intuitive and powerful with the aim of bringing this across to all our products.At the very start of the project, we wanted to have a thin slice (MVP) of the core functionality — being able to trade foreign exchange and have those trades appear in a table (or blotter as it is known in the industry). We knew the filtering was going to be a large piece of work (several sprints’ worth), but wanted to get some basic filtering in quickly.Often in these cases, a shoddily designed solution would be added to cover the absolute bare minimum functionality. This design wouldn’t take into account the additional requirements that would be added later, and would result in throw away code when the time came to build out the feature.The idea behind Incremental UX is to design iterations of a component, that can be developed one after the other. The key requirements are:Rightly or wrongly, if we as designers propose a solution at the start of a project for an issue such as filtering that is going to take up more than an entire sprint, it will be thrown out during planning for a more fundamental feature. It will be deprioritised when a bug or infrastructure issue breaks the core functionality (in this case, being able to place a trade).At best, it will be broken down into chunks that may not make sense, and in a way that getting to the final picture is more painful and expensive than it needs to be.With an incremental plan, the iteration of a feature is controlled and manageable, with small increments and improvements being added over time alongside more fundamental and core features.The solution was to have the filter and sort control available when the user clicked the column header. The user would see a dedicated filter control for the data type of the column. A string filter for strings, a date filter for dates, and a numerical filter for numbers. The user would not have to guess at the syntax required for slightly more complex filter criteria.The image below shows on the left the most basic filter that could be used for all data types. It doesn’t provide any more functionality that the solution shown in the image above, but is the first step of the three steps for the string filter. The following two iterations add more control and better usability, but build on the most basic version with almost no development rework.The user would be able to create ‘Filter sets’. These are a collection of filters that the user can label to keep for future use. This has proved popular among our users as it gives them the flexibility to customise the product to suit their individual workflows. The product is shipped with some filter sets included to get the user started.The image above includes the most advanced date filter increment. The earlier increment can be seen below.The concept of Incremental UX also has the benefit of being able to test a concept in the real world, in the correct context, with actual users. It allows you to release an increment of a feature to real users, testing the initial concept and the direction of an idea without building the entire thing. This is the exactly the same motivation as designing an MVP of a whole product. Incremental UX is simply taking that concept down to the component level.This approach worked very well for us in this project and we have been using the concept since. It allows for rich, usable features to be developed alongside the core functionality in an agile environment. The concept of an MVP at a product level is a well established and proven concept. Bringing this concept down to the component level gives the same benefits of incremental delivery, user testing and stakeholder approval and buy-in.I’d be very interested in any feedback, especially from people who are perhaps using the same or a similar concept in their teams.Lead UX Designer for Caplin SystemsUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

As a digital designer, it’s not always possible to be everything to everyone and wear all of the hats at the same time.Clients and stakeholders sometimes misunderstand the design process. They perhaps don’t always know that backend development and UX design are different disciplines to web design itself and so expect you, the designer, to be the all-knowing, all-fixing genius.With this in mind and when you’re relatively new to UX design, you’ll certainly make some mistakes — nobody is infallible and some projects are just incredibly complex. To help reaffirm some good fundamentals, we’ve compiled some of the most common mistakes that we see in UX and some tips to help you to avoid them.We’ve all been guilty of the “genius mentality” at some point. When you work in a creative field, you form strong opinions and always try to filter facts through your own experience.But to be a successful designer, you must isolate passion from ego. You’re not out to prove anything with your design, your only goal is to help the user while creating a memorable experience in the process.Of course, it’s not always easy to distance your wants from the needs of the user. Designers feel an almost parental sense of responsibility over their creations, but you must make sure the responsibility is to users and not your ego.The best way to learn how to balance restraint with passion is deconstructing the work of others.Let’s take a look at the The bold rich colors, high definition images, and crisp intro video paired with masculine voiceover all appeal to the outdoorsman (or weekend warrior, for that matter). The site even uses a slider to reproduce some of the tactile feel of snapping open a grill to reveal the smoky meat — as you drag the hand icon from left to right, the grill lid opens. The mad-libs style form is also a nice choice for the site since it creates self-confidence (no doubt appealing to the male audience).The site understands the power of narrative, presenting the product in the context of a camping trip between a group of friends. But it doesn’t go overboard with design tricks: the animations and video last just long enough to capture your interest, then the site lets illustrations explain how to actually use the grill.Richly animated yet content-focused, BBQ Cultures further delivers a consistent experience across all devices. When run through the Now that we’ve explored a visual case study, let’s examine a few more tips on staying grounded in the design process (from the guide UX does not equal UI.Mixing up UI with UX is a common mistake, probably due to the renewed interest that we’ve seen in both disciplines. It’s not surprising, as the abbreviations are similar and this is enough to confuse some people who aren’t familiar with the disciplines in the first instance.The other reason is that the two are of course related. UI is concerned with how the user interacts with the interface of the site, which is naturally a part of the overall user experience.But while UI is all about which buttons to press and where to go next (e.g. the clarity of the interface with regards to user goals), UX is concerned with how the overall design makes the user In a nutshell, the goal of UI design is to create efficient yet captivating interfaces that help create a good overall user experience.Referring back to our previous point, usability testing ensures that you remain focused on the overall experience when designing the interface. Don’t be guilty of theUnderstand that like the graphic above shows, UX requires mastery of many different disciplines. Just because you have a beautiful interface doesn’t mean it will work well, and just because you have a functional interface doesn’t mean people will love it.When it comes to UX or UI design, start with the content first. After some initial user research, create an interactive site map that actually clicks through to your pages. Whether you’re using Keynote or a digital prototyping tool, always start with a site map so you can gauge the overall flow of the experience.As you can see above from design agency Once you’ve created this page, make sure you allow each “branch” to then click through to the wireframe or prototype of the page itself. We’ve tried this ourselves and it works in just about any tool from specialized prototyping apps to presentation software.By working through the content first before wireframing, you prioritize your design accordingly:This process makes sense because content forms the foundation of all design, and it’s what users care about most. Secondly, iterating on the interactions through low or mid-fidelity prototyping helps you better control the flow through that content. Thirdly, or usually simultaneously, you then polish the visual design so the experience feels as inviting as possible (considering that Users are lazy. The more forms you add, the less motivated users feel.As recommended in A study carried out on The form with 11 fields required the following information:It also included checkboxes at the end asking how the visitor heard about the site.The shorter, 4-field form cut down the information required:Of course, you could shorten the form further by removing the phone number and comments (which generally aren’t that helpful). Depending on your industry, a phone number might be critical for lead generation, but you’ll find people are far more hesitant to risk unsolicited calls.So what was the bottom line of the study?They found that the shorter form’s signups In order to arrive at the correct number of fields required, you should study your users and first define The reality is that it’s a tradeoff. You’re dealing with competing priorities: sales teams usually want more lead information, while designers fight for the best user experience (which indirectly meets business needs).The only way to strike a balance is to test.For example, Expedia found that removing one field from their form (for Company Name — it confused users as to what they were supposed to enter) caused an Those types of results are reason enough to justify You probably know this, but we’ve only skimmed the surface.Nonetheless, there are some simple rules to bear in mind, although you should always approach each design project individually.We understand that it’s a lot to wrap your head around, so it’s normal to make errors while you’re still learning the discipline (which is equal parts art form). When in doubt, ask yourself what the user would do, then slowly work your way back to the business goals.Business goals might decide the destination, but user requirements must always steer the ship.Collaborative design for everyone.

It’s road trip season again and if you’re in a modern car, technology has moved in to make it easier and more enjoyable. Google is rolling out These are 5 things I’ve learned from road trips that I think can apply to UX.What is more important; starting the next episode of The car should respond in a way that takes in account the need for safety and navigation before personal wants, then rank those wants in order of overall importance, beginning with the driver and ending with the passengers.Sometimes user wants become needs that jump to the top of the hierarchy.Another way of thinking of it is like this:A few terrifying statistics from If a digital dashboard is more complicated to use than a phone then people will default to their phone, and that includes the drivers. Automakers are tacitly acknowledging this by working with Silicon Valley’s top mobile operating systems. Apple’s CarPlay and Android Auto use the driver’s phone to drive the car’s UX, forcing the user to look at the dashboard rather than down at their phones. But drivers are still not looking at the road. This needs to change.The primary purpose of a car is to get us from one place to another. The primary function of a car’s UI should support this by being recognizable, clear, consistent and simple to use.Often times this manifests as a map or turn-by turn directions — which works great unless you’re moving too quickly to catch a sign, or it’s really dark out, or you’re traveling the backroads. In these cases a satellite view or a photo of each major turn would be very helpful.Whatever the UI is, it should not disappear when someone plays music, makes a call, or adjusts the temperature. Those moments always seem to come right when you need to take an exit.Joe and Caroline are driving in a car. Joe turns on the radio and tunes to “1. They agree on a station.Does this sound familiar? It’s essentially a fight over a UI bottleneck which is frustrating because we are used to controlling our entertainment environments with a variety of devices. A car should be the same way. Any approved user and device should be able to cast music or other content to the car’s entertainment system and the driver (and safety system) get veto rights.A car is like a very small room that you can’t easily escape from, at least it can feel like that sometimes. The easiest thing to do is pull out a device, pop in earbuds and retreat into your personal space. There should be better alternatives to this than playing “I spy with my little eye…” for hours on end. But I haven’t experienced any.There is a great opportunity for someone to re-imagine how we spend time together. I’m hoping for a new generation of games, but at this point a great karaoke app would help.This space is only going to get more interesting as automated cars rollout and the form of automobiles morphs away from a driver-centric design. Group dynamics can change completely when people face each other. I’m looking forward to more social time.Follow Backchannel: Additional Reading  Interesting LinksI am in love with the future, drawing and user experience. Thoughts and opinions are my own. Find me at Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

Once in a while we all come up with new ideas for apps that would solve small or large problems based on a personal or professional pain point. Taking this a step further, I’ve always thought it would be a great learning experience to take one of my ideas through to a finished product. Hopefully through fleshing out an idea, I could answer questions such as: Is this idea so great after all, once the novelty wears off? Does this digital product truly cover an actual user need? Is this need large enough to warrant an entire digital product? Do my UI design decisions hold water and is the product easy to navigate and a joy to use? I’m a designer who has taught myself how to code iOS apps, so I thought it would be fun to create an app from scratch, learning a ton of things going through all the concept, design and development phases of the digital product.I work as a UX designer at We could create a fun, easy-to-use lunch app that on a rudimentary level would tell people what’s for lunch, but also facilitate an atmosphere of fun by getting people talking about food, what dishes they look forward to, their favourite foods and so on. The app could really encourage a sense of community. And potentially we could add a lot of fun features, such as voting for dishes, a wish list, emojis etc.The lunch app idea ticked a lot of boxes, and so Having an idea is fun. In your head it’s this awesome being that’s going to take over the world. Everyone will erupt with pure joy, and it’s sure to be the next big thing. Once you start executing your idea, you also start judging it for what it is and what it isn’t. You might even figure out it’s not going to work. But that’s also okay. At least that means you’ve learned something.Teaching myself the basics of the Swift language has allowed to code my own simple apps, gaining a valuable understanding of the inner workings of code. Constantly having to switch between the high-level concept and UX and the minute details of code is tough and occasionaly made me lose sight of the over-all vision. You really need at least one other person to give feedback and help you reflect on the over-all product decisions.You’ll learn a ton of things watching how people interact with your product. Chances are it’s nowhere near how you intended it. Maybe they love a feature, that almost didn’t make it. Maybe they aren’t interested in the product at all or maybe they can’t figure out the navigation.Observing how code can change, or at least improve people’s lives, is really powerful. Watching how you’ve made someone’s day just a little bit easier feels really good.If your users can’t navigate the app or find the content they’re looking for, they’re going to quit the app and not come back.We’re all busy and tend to forget things, services, apps, etc. Your users are going to need reminders about your product. With Lunchie we implemented push notifications to remind people about lunch (and the app’s existence.)It’s the people using your app everyday, that are naturally going to come up with clever, smart ways of using your product or features that would make it better. Listen to them.Using your product for a long period of time is going to reveal different insights to just test it while building it.Most products need to be maintained. If it’s an app, eventually you are going to have to upgrade your app to a newer OS. Maybe your app feeds off some sort of information that needs to be maintained by someone in a database somewhere. Plan for this, and keep it in mind. I quite frankly didn’t think too much about the fact that someone needs to update the app on a weekly basis with the newest version of the lunch menu.There is no such thing as a finished product. Contexts and circumstances evovle. Things and people change. Your product is a living organism that exists because it solves an issue. If issues or needs change, your product needs to change too.Once you get started, you get so many ideas. What if we could sell the app to our catering company, or to all catering companies in Denmark? If we include a dish voting system, the catering company would know which dishes were particular popular and through this optimize their offerings. We could also add a dish wishlist, or emojis to allow people to express their excitement or disappointment in a fun, quirky way. As you get to spend time with your product, new ideas come popping in to your head. Ideas you wouldn’t otherwise have thought of. Win!Creating Lunchie from scratch was incredibly fun and exciting but also a lot of hard work. I learned a ton and now have a better understanding of all the different cogwheels that make a digital product. I’d do it again. In fact I I’d love to hear your thoughts on creating digital products for your own use. Comment below or get in touch!Digital Product Designer/UX designer. Chock-full of positive energy.Blog posts from the FFW team

When I was studying interaction design at the Having experienced the full design process in many projects from idea to product (and from idea to nothing), I noticed that reality has a tendency to ignore our carefully crafted plans. To overcome all the setbacks it provides is an accomplishment in itself.This does not mean we should lower the bar. When designing, I like to first approach the problem as if reality wasn’t that much of a factor. If we know where we are moving towards, we might need to make compromises in the steps towards that goal. But if you embed your compromises in your goal, you risk getting lost in details that appear important because of your current (mis)understanding of reality.With that in mind, I wrote The article seemed to resonate and I wanted to investigate the topic further. For me, understanding comes from a mix of taking in different perspectives, my own experiences and deliberate thinking. So I reached out to UX tool creators, colleagues and the UX community on social media to gather their perspectives.In this article I’d like to get a more in depth grip of the topic of UX tooling and how we can improve them. I’ll do this in 5 steps:1. Quickly summarize the previous article on what I would consider a True UX tool.2. Learn from the perspectives of our tool makers  UX community3. Learn from how other digital tools are made4. Try to look over the horizon for where we are heading5. Suggest concrete steps we can do right nowAs a UX designer we can use of many great tools. But when we take a closer look at what a typical workday looks like, our tooling seems to focus mostly on prototyping. It would be great if we could have a tool that would take into account the full workflow and reality of our job.With that in mind, I set two core requirements for a True UX tool:I also sketched some features to show that a tool based on these requirements is feasible.I sent out an e-mail to five tool makers; Axure, InVision, Marvel, UXPin and Proto.io. Only one of them needed to be lured with a I’ll let the tool makers speak for themselves here:“In response to my follow up question on the role of prototyping: As you might expect, in defining a true UX tool we have to look at what it is to do UX and where we need support. As mentioned by our tool makers, UX designers often use a set of different tools.On aOn Google+, a request for better integration between tools.On Twitter and in the comments we again see some people struggle and feel the need for something that goes beyond our current options.The recurring theme seems to be that working with our tools can feel complex and fragmented.Where I stated the need for a holistic UX tool, Ludvik went the opposing way. He questions the need for Perhaps we can learn something from tools in other fields. If we look at Instagram, it started out by making it super simple to beautify and share your images.It’s also clear that Instagram is not for professional image manipulation like Photoshop. You might say that a ‘True’ tool provides you with the right amount of control for the task at hand. Assuming we are talking about professionals, we want a high level of control over the parts where we add value.We also can take inspiration from 3D modeling tools. Programs like If you just want to make simple shapes to 3D print. You need a tool like Both 3ds Max and Doodle 3D are powerful in their own way.I would say that Doodle 3D probably isn’t a ‘True’ 3D modeling tool. Doodle 3D makes it easy to quickly get a nice result, but a professional 3D modeler wants a very specific end result. This requires a higher level of control.This does not mean we always need high fidelity prototypes. Our work consists of communicating a plan, not just creating prototypes. Sometimes a sketch on a whiteboard will do.3DS Max supports you in a high level of grouping tasks. It goes beyond creating a 3D model, it also enables you to do texturing, lighting and much more that is part of the creation of a 3D movie.But the level of tasks grouping is independent from the level of control it offers. A code editor like You could reason that a set of small specialized tool offers the best support. It might feel like a more ambitious tool will become too complex to use. The saying ‘Less is more’ comes to mind. And yes, there are tasks when you need such a specialized tool.The goal of a more unified UX tool makes sense when its made to support the UX designer who is working on a digital project within a team and requires a high level of control over their work.If the scope of grouped tasks is limited, there can be projects where you need to increase the number of tools to get the job done. If you dream up a UX tool that supports all of our core tasks, wouldn’t it need to be a big complex tool, just like 3DS Max? On the one hand I’d say; We are professionals and it’s acceptable that our tools have a learning curve if that helps us to become more effective and efficient.On the other hand; This brings me to the following scope:Even with this scope, there is always a need to work with multiple tools, since different specialists collaborate in a creative team. In our 3D modeling example; besides 3DS Max, the team might need a tool likeI asked the tool makers to share what they have in store for us. A lot of attention goes to collaboration and integration... Alexis was somewhat mysterious on what was about to come. He mentioned their general concept:Looking beyond the next update, we see great potential but also uncertainty.Learning a new tool is quite an investment for both an individual and a company. It’s hard to keep up with the current pace of of how the ecosystem is evolving is. The main risk is that the tools you use today might not exist a year from now. Recent examples are the termination of Fireworks and the acqui-hire of Combined with the fundamental need to chain different tools in our projects, the constant evolving UX tooling landscape makes it extra important that these tools are able to operate well together.One of the ways we can cope with this fast evolving ecosystem and ease the way tools can be used in conjunction is to embrace standards. This would also make it easier to swap one tool for the other, and it would be easier to connect the tools we use.It makes sense to use JSON for data and HTML for ways to show this data.All say I’d also like to propose a new file type for UX projects (.ux would work). It would not only include the prototype, but also personas, customer journeys and other core UX elements.All say As for the tool makers; their approach to standardizing might depend on if they view this as a zero sum game, where the loss of one business is the gain of the other. I see a lot of truth in what Peter Thiel is saying about competition (But I also believe in the pie metaphor; we should not focus too much on our share, but focus on growing the size of the pie.As a tool maker you can find a monopoly in how you group the tasks and where you want to emphasize control.In order to get things moving, I would love to see a secret meeting between tool makers with the purpose of setting the standards for our UX tools.Wink twice if you’re in ;) ;)User experience designer @ Jungle Minds. Creator of Idea Growr appby the people at Jungle Minds

Many people ask what I do everyday here at Google. According to my photos on Facebook, it seems like all I do is play and roam around the Google campus all day. That’s true. But my day is also filled with different meetings, presentations, and of course, designing.Here’s an overview of what an average day is like here at Google, through the eyes of a User Experience Design Intern.Glad I turned 21 this summer because you can only drink here at Google if you are over 21. ☺Disclaimer: If you think I don’t do a lot of work, I continue doing work until midnight since there aren’t any distractions. I’m also very productive on weekends.Want to see what it’s like as a design intern in New York? Gaurav wrote an awesome post Check out this post on Product Designer Once upon a time I spent a summer at Google.

I am a UX Designer at JotForm. My job here is to listen to and analyze our users and try to create happy experiences for them. I am trying to find more creative and effective methods every day. It is hard to describe a typical day at JotForm because every day is a different day with different tasks, which is what I love about it.I also use I regularly share my designs with my teammates on Also, I have a Twitter List called ‘‘Finally, as I mentioned before every day is different and every day is a different challenge, but a good team makes things beautiful. We’re all in this together, and we all want to make JotForm better each and every day.UI / UX Designer JotForm related.  Ideas. Stories. User guides. From the founder of JotForm and others.

Asher Blumberg, Mobile UX Designer at StumbleUpon, hosted a webinar with us on Check out the video below for the full recording, and read on for our short recap.1961: The Rand Corporation invented the first computer interface1984: The Apple Macintosh computer debuted for a mass audience2007: The iPhone — though not the first touchscreen — was the most significant2009: The Kinect showed a new way to connect technology with the body2011: We met Siri, the “no-interface interface”2011: We welcomed Nest into our homes2013: Oculus Rift, the 2015: The Apple Watch shows that wearables can allow you to be 2015: Amazon Echo launched out of beta and is currently the most powerful voice-powered device on the marketInnovation is exploding in every direction. With all of these “smart” things — smart cars, smart phones, smart watches, smart glasses — While we don’t know what future technologies will look like, we do know that Asher’s specialty is creating native mobile apps that While working on StumbleUpon’s iOS and Android redesigns, Asher and his design team focused on balancing the app’s unique characteristics and the core conventions of these 2 dominant mobile platforms.Asher laid out a few of his own design guidelines to create a cohesive iOS and Android experience, while making it unique enough that users realize they’re in a distinctly branded app.Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

With plenty of great lists of UX Books for UX Designers (Alexander, also the author of The book, and the video series (in it’s entirety below), focus on the part of architecture that is rarely celebrated: how it is to live with it.The subtle differences of thought (agency, impact, mode, dynamic, direction) are encoded in the words we choose, the words we use. Steven Pinker brings his lens to bear on the mind/language connection.The creative process is a mysterious thing. We end up wearing lucky socks we refuse to wash, or touch the lock four times before opening. It’s hard to separate out the superstition from the stuff that really makes a difference. This focus on the creative process is meant to strip away all the myths and empower each of us to be more creative.Insisting that even the most prosaic of design artifacts tap into the talismanic power of the visual for conjuring beauty, power and human connection, Munari is a giant in the realm of graphic design.Metaphors are complex systems of understanding and explanation that rule so much of our communication and cognition. There is very little in our language that doesn’t leverage a metaphor (“leverage” for example). Drawing closer to the robust, complex and powerful machine that is the human mind is alway humbling and inspiring.The underlying mechanisms and dynamics of meaning, art and craft receive a new bright light of attention from this titan of philosophy in a dizzying tour of the arts we are engage in and bolstered by.Our words and heart and heads connect in ways that often get glossed over. The lauded novelist brings his wit, scholarship and craft to unpack the ways our minds bend to the words we use.A visual exploration of the intersection of literature, visual performance, and history as a writing system soars to artistic heights that transcend language, centuries, meaning and culture.Before he was Poet Laureate, Robert Hass was known for his brisk and intelligent poetry full of pathos and intellectual honesty. Here is a collection of essays on some of the 20th Centuries poetic colossals: Robert Lowell, James Wright, Tomas Transtromer, Joseph Brodsky, Yvor Winters,Robert Creeley, James McMichael, Czeslaw Milosz, and others. He is interested in the movement, the music, the ideas and structures of these poets’ great works.discovering the world bit by bit as founder of 5ThingsILearnedToday.com, and Director of User Experience Designing for Other People

In the wild world of web design, terms like UX and UI get thrown around all the time. But what do these mean exactly? While UX (User Experience) and UI (User Interface) design are both crucial components of delivering an exceptional web experience to end users, they are not the same. We’ll quickly break down the key differences between the two and talk about how the two integrate with each other.User interface design does not just cover what you see when you first come to a page, but also includes the design of what these elements do when a user interacts with them. This If UI covers these elements, what is left for So, how are these two related exactly? Effective UI and UX design work hand in hand to create an overall pleasing experience for users. If one of them is not up to par, it will significantly affect the performance of a website. For example, a website will feel off if it has great UI and poor UX because it would look amazing but would be terribly difficult to navigate. On the other hand, something that is very usable that looks poor is exemplary of great UX and poor UI.A Boston-based digital agency

As a problem-solver you meet a lot of people with opinions on how design and user experience (UX) works. These are mine.No. Just. No.If users were able to articulate their needs then running a business and being an entrepreneur would be a walk in the park. If there’s anything I’ve learnt in my 18 years of user-centric design work, it is that humans — yes, you and me both — are eerily unaware of their own decision-making processes.The past few decades we have seen immense progress in the art of understanding how people function emotionally, leading to many new insights into, for example:Many of these new theories actually overthrow old adages about how companies should approach and even advertise to customers. Gone is the view of humans as rational beings who make decisions based on logical reasoning. Embrace instead humans as they are, turning to intuition when too tired to read, making poorer decisions when grumpy and who want to buy from you because you have a pretty smile and you like cats.I really do get where this myth comes form. We say we need to listen to users, we say we need to adhere to their needs. It seems obvious that to obtain this information that we ask them.However, One person saying they “want a faster search engine” tells me nothing. Many people saying the same thing is a pattern. In interviews I may later discover that the reason they want a faster search engine is because what they most often are looking for isn’t part of the site navigation. In fact, creating a better menu may eliminate their need for a search engine altogether. So you see, there is a real difference to asking users what they want, and understanding the real problem.The closest thing I’ve had to a user actually really telling me what she wants is when I did work for an insurance company. In response to questions about how she went about signing up for insurance she finally blurted out:In the end people don’t really want to use most of your services at all. They actually want to be done with them. It’s a giveaway that the world’s most popular site, Google’s search engine, is really successful by having people leave the site as soon as possible.It’s my job to come up with the solution, but I can’t do that without first understanding the real problem. Users are rarely aware of the real problems but I can get to them by understanding their real pain points. That’s what user research is all about.No, but you wouldn’t be the only one confusing UX with interaction design. It’s true that many who are responsible for UX also master, or come from, interaction design. But mastering interaction design alone will not bring clarity to the experience of a service.A person focusing solely on interaction design can create something that is appealing and easy to use, but UX infers an obligation to look at the bigger picture. To create something valuable it must also fit withHence, UX looks not only at what will work well for the users in the present, but also at what will continue working working well for the users in the future. To ensure this the solution must not place too much of a strain on the cost and effort required to maintain it, and it must not digress from that which makes the organization valuable.An apparent, and common, risk is that we create something that is well received when it is first released but the organization does not have the resources to maintain the level of commitment to the service that it sets out to promise. Disappointment is not a recipe for success.There should be a handover of user research from UX responsibles (that may not be what they call themselves, but you know what I mean) to interaction designers to ensure a design that is founded on context and real circumstance. And yes, to add to the confusion, many times these different roles are the same person.No, UX is about understanding what solutions will create a win-win situation for an organization and the people it is targeting. Staying up-to-date with emerging technologies is absolutely important; a person responsible for UX should have a firm grasp of available options. And the appeal of innovative technology should of course always be considered.Working for Ericsson many years ago a web-based recruitment tool provided by a third-party supplier failed miserably in the tests we setup. The troubles were mainly with performance. The project was terminated and the supplier lost the contract.Using the insights I had gathered we were able to solve many of the user needs in a matter of weeks, using Microsoft Outlook, working with available filters and mechanisms for sorting and sharing across business units. This had many benefits:To this day this project is my greatest reminder of how 3 months of user research allowed me to build a viable and valuable solution in 3 weeks, using a tool everyone was familiar with but had not even considered. It was very unsexy. It was extremely cost-efficient. The users had no objections.Of course, the premise for my 3 months of user research was a large IT-project that failed and was scrapped in a matter of days. We can’t all be that lucky.So, no, it doesn’t have to be new and fashionable. That will even scare some people away. There’s a lot to be said for second-hand stores. Just make sure the shoe fits.No, this is a frustrating myth that many people working with usability continue to strengthen by the way many usability tests are performed. If the users do not understand how to perform the tasks in a usability test, the conclusion is often that bad usability is to blame.Then it’s back to the drawing board, searching for that holy grail of a design solution that people will grasp in an instant.Imagine usability testing children who are learning to ride a bike. After 50 or so children have tried straddling the bicycle and instantly fallen over, the bikes must surely be considered a failure. To me, bikes are pretty awesome though, once you learn to ride them.And the next time I’m in a music store I think I’ll pick up a saxophone and play Jungleland. If I can’t I’m going to assume the usability testing was awry.A focus on UX will allow the creation of a service that the target users can learn and become friends with, over time. It’s not always about love at first sight and not even about being the most valued tool in the toolbox. Not everyone can be a hammer; The wrench is valuable too, even though it may take a while longer to master.No, UX is by no means limited to the Currently working within the healthcare sector it may be true that I am designing a tool for online therapy, but my concerns stretch far beyond the tool. I map out the scenarios in which people will learn about the tool, what doctors say at the first meeting, what the introductory material on paper will look like, how they will talk to friends about it, how it fits into their weekly routines, what other health services they encounter, and what other related tools they use (be they digital calendars or physical sketchbooks).I work to ensure the part of the whole experience I am responsible for When I say And yes, in the end, I think many of us see how one could work with UX and not deliver a digital solution. I myself sometimes turn to When myths are allowed to grow they quickly turn into walls and may limit us from moving into areas and obtaining information we need to perform well in our job. That’s why I make it a point to talk to anyone expressing the prejudices outlined in this article.Make it a point to understand other people’s preconceptions of what you do. But don’t ever tell them they are wrong, that’s a lousy way to have a conversation, and that’s not what UX:ers do, right? Rather, listen closely to their story and share how your view of UX can be applied in situations familiar to them.I am far from correct in everything I do and conclude. It is not uncommon for me to feel like I’ve nailed a design solution only to learn that others fail to pick up on it in the way I anticipated. The key in these cases is to pursue solutions that work, keep learning about the situation, listening and being modest and humble in your approach.The world of services, especially online, is also now in constant motion and innovation, so sometimes you just have to get over yourself and move along with it. My stories are already a thing of the past and the field of UX is in continuous transformation.You know, some years later the Microsoft Outlook solution I built was replaced by a younger and sexier web interface. And some day in the future we may very well have bicycles that children can learn to ride in a matter of seconds — well in fact they exist already, they’re called So when I lay awake at night, struggling with my definition of UX and how I can get others to understand my passion, my biggest consolation is this: As long as there are frustrations and friction there will be people like you and me actively trying to eliminate them, whether we call it UX or not.Freelance consultant, speaker and coach working out of Stockholm, SE. More than 20 years of experience in human-centric digital design.  Co-host of 

In my last life, before I became a UX pro, I was a software trainer. I traveled all over the country and worked with users of all ages, teaching them how to use various software solutions. I have a psychology background, so one of the things I always found fascinating was users’ reactions to error messages.The product I trained on did a really great job of calmly alerting users that something weird had occured. It had a friendly professional voice, and kept a consistent tone.A majority of the training I did was on the flagship CMS product. Most of the users I was working with were trying to wrangle content out of 3rd party products to transfer it into our CMS. The 3rd party products often had nightmare-ish UI’s and horrible UX, unfortunately.On countless occasions, the 3rd party products threw absolutely horrible, terrifying looking error messages.It is incredible the impact that friendly error messages can have on UX. One day I had two users sitting right next to one another in a lab, one of them working in a 3rd party program and another working in our product. They happened to error out simultaneously. The 3rd party product displayed a giant red X, with the word ERROR in all caps and a pile of crazy script beneath it. The user gasped, closed the browser and shot back in his chair like the screen had tried to bite him.The user who received the error in our product read a message similar to, “Something weird just happened on our end, sorry about that. Please refresh your screen and try that again.” The error code was listed in small text below the message, as well as an expand option for folks to view the error details if they so desired.She grinned at me and said, “Oh boy, you’re in trouble now!” And refreshed her screen and continued editing.The actual errors they encountered were very similar, but their experiences with the messages were VASTLY different. When you’re designing products and websites, don’t forget to pay attention to the little big details, like humanizing your error messages. It can make an absolutely HUGE difference in UX!-UX  Content Strategist at Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

A colleague who found himself newly-appointed to a UX leadership role reached out to me recently to ask me if I had any book recommendations for him. I’m “I’m skilled with the tools and the brain, but virtually inexperienced in managing and leading a UX team,” he wrote. “Do you have any book recommendations?”Here are the books that I found that I thought would be helpful.Arnie Lund’s Another book I’d consider is Russ Unger and Carolyn Chandler’s Finally, A lot of folks recommended Ed Catmull’s One commenter recommended Dan Brown’s Also from a commenter, John Maeda’s As a new manager, I got a lot of value from Buckingham and Coffman’s When I worked for Another title I hadn’t heard about until a commenter recommended it is Andy Grove’s Interaction Designer; Co-author of 

.. for he is actually a UI DesignerHeAnd, I say..Because he might be a classic example of a UI designer posing as a UX/ Product designer. Here are a few symptoms to find one and Just like engineering or industrial design or architecture, a UX designer is a critical profession that impacts people, sometimes even the world to an extreme degree (Cough! People who hit hipster bars, drink homemade beers, post ‘inspiration’ on Instagram related to industrial design and architecture, talk ‘design’ with unrelated people, and spend time on Sketch adjusting gradients and drop-shadows, I’m sorry, is not a professional UX designer.Well, not exactly. If the ‘poser’ is a very good UI designer (a post on that coming soon!), he can be groomed in to a UX designer over time, provided he is ready to learn apparently boring technology, science  applied mathematics topics, and you have the time to nurture. Else, FIRE HIM!Product Designer with background in Industrial Engineering. Currently serves as Senior UX Designer at an ad-tech firm in India.

When people ask what I do, I tell them I’m a UX-designer. Truth is, it’s not a title I’m a fan of. It’s true that I help companies design user experiences and you’d think the title would be suitable, but it also suggests that I am solely responsible for what the complete user experience will be. This couldn’t be farther from the truth. As I’ve mentioned before, the Mike’s reasoning can be easily applied to UX-design — the airline booking site reference fits really well. As people, we just want things that work. This is, without a doubt, one of the reasons that Apple has seen such great success with their products.Sure, the Android operating system has some awesome features. You can customize just about anything, but the vast majority of users don’t give it a second thought. Do we really think that people care whether or not you can customize what font the operating system uses? Most people don’t even know what a font is. What people do care about is getting on with their daily business. The faster I can pull the phone out of the box to start making calls, e-mailing, and browsing the web — the better.I was recently hired to rethink the user experience of an e-commerce website that lets users customize shirts. The possibilities are absolutely endless. A user can choose different buttons, collars, pockets, cuts, and the list goes on and on. They can even upload their own measurements to ensure a perfect fit.These endless possibilities can get overwhelming for first time users. They might just want to get a shirt where they can simply select a custom color. I suggested to the client to group options together to make the choices easier to grasp. Especially in this case, this grouping technique can help users more easily engage with the product.Just think of Google. The possibilities are endless for what you can search for and how you can filter those results to see exactly what you are looking for. But the success of Google lies within the simplicity; that most users feel comfortable with a single text field where they can enter their search term.This e-commerce client didn’t buy into my reasoning and thought that they would lose clients by grouping the options for ease of use. They believed that their user base desires to have all the options, all the time. We ended up parting ways because I couldn’t suggest a solution that would meet all of their demands.I strongly believe that if you want to please everyone, you end up pleasing nobody — not even yourself.Even though my title might be UX-designer, the user experience consists of everyone involved: marketers, managers, customer service, technicians, even other users. The role of a UX-designer is to take all these different inputs and suggest the best way to package, position, and communicate it. Success comes from paying attention to the entire experience of the user, from beginning to end.From #mobX speaker Cat Noon (image by AMEN.Let’s keep this simple: I make digital products work, by ensuring the people who have to use them know how to and enjoy doing so. 

A great team is all the time humble and have the ability to listen to everyone, facilitating freedom to communicate each member’s thoughts and perspectives irrespective of hierarchies, which in turn would help build a great product. UX should not be a single designer or design team’s concern, but the complete development team needs the understanding of why, what  who they are developing this product for. Rather, now adays UX is conceived and misinterpreted as a Tool driven deliverable or look and feel improvisations. Instead the entire team with all stakeholders on board should be involved in solving major UX problems.One such democratic design activity is UX-JAD sessions. In my opinion, this should be made mandate in most companies and as Designers I think it is high time we shed our ego and also let the development teams to break the myth about ‘Design Thinking’ and its ownership (of course, a designer with Designers Gyan on proven research facts  experience would bring in more value to this session) any one with lateral mind can crack a good solution, why not the Programmers, testers, BA and QAs.____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________JAD sessions are believed to reduce the time for requirement gathering, freezing features as well considered as a most cost effective method; it also has advantages of getting instant feedback regarding feasibility of certain features or ideas from the stake holders. Most of all, there should be excitement among the team members in brainstorming new concepts, after all, design is a collaborative activity and getting more ideas with more logical thinkers on board mean a good solution.____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________“Organizations routinely kill creativity with fake deadlines or impossibly tight ones,” Amabile wrote in the “My life is very monotonous,” the fox said. “I hunt chickens; men hunt me. All the chickens are just alike, and all the men are just alike. And, in consequence, I am a little bored.”I am sure most of the designers or developers from cooperates and are reading this write-up can relate this to their daily work life, even product start-up which claim to have good ambiance with cool graffiti  flat modern layouts workplaces don’t lead way to amazing work experience. Those glossy materials do not add any value to productivity or psychological aspect of a team member. Culture is something which is built invisibly and eventually, not overnight by revamping the office space. When Culture  Team go hand in hand that’s where great products are built. Great teams have a strong, unique culture, and they ensure each member excels and improvises on a longer term. Startup Catalyst____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________Before I share this idea, I would like share my gratitude to have got inspiration from the following blogs that inspired my idea, though this is a minor tweak in the existing process which is already being widely used.…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………This A customer journey map is a process which unearths the story of the customer’s experience both offline and online within the system from the initial point of contact, through the process of interacting. This provides a sense of the customer’s greater motivation. It is a methodology to keep the development team and organisation know more about their customers as well as it identifies the following key data.The main focus is to document the CX through their perspective, helping the team best understand how customers interact with the product which in turn helps identify areas of improvement. Great customer journey maps are data-driven and they visually represent the different phases your customers experience based on a variety of dimensions such as sentiment, goals etc. This also helps both the organisation  development team come closer to the users.Traditional User Journey Maps by Service Design Tools, represented in Graphical way in wall hanging boards, IllustratesLego City sets are based on city life, with the models depicting city and emergency services airport, train, construction, and civilian services.____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________The unique aspect of a persona description is that you don’t have to look at the entire person, but use the area of focus or domain where you have to address the problem which zooms to highlight the relevant attitudes and the specific context associated with the area of work. A “user” means different things to different people and is often used generically to describe the average customer, actually which is not the same as a persona. In UX, personas are used to define and design interactive products. Same way we work on prioritized scenarios. Usually a stock image or sketch of a person corresponding to the persona is described in a persona. How cool will it be if you are playing around with your personas mapping their scenarios? Although personas provide many cost- and time-saving benefits, there is a downfall to using them. If a team spends too much effort and thought developing the persona too much into the tiny details of the persona’s narrative, it can consume a lot of time in the development process and create large documents, which are actually ineffective mainly in Indian environments where in the UX process, these are least bothered for and not encouraged until you show them to the Clients or Stakeholders.__________________________________________________________________The whole idea of LEGO was built on a grid system like any other design, so are our UI layouts.It is not a crime to use alternative prototyping medium, especially if it is participatory and improving the current method. In my current project we are paper prototyping the UI concepts and getting mutual agreement from all stakeholders. Can’t this be more engaging than just getting feedback?We have most times underrated our UI prototyping process within the margin of paper or a software tool; it is always flocked as two dimensional methods. But little did we understand that wherever there are hierarchies there is an extra 3rd face coming into the picture. In a User Interface, there are visual cues, content hierarchies and different accordance levels which in no way are discussed in a low prototyping process, current methodological starts and ends leveraging the iteration process.Traditionally, when my product owners give me the problem statement or requirement as Use Case, I would come up with UI Concepts on a Paper Prototypes since it’s quick and fast and you could freeze the basic layout positions and initial functions. But this argument has been done for a long time for its limitations because of its simplicity; paper prototypes do not support the evaluation of fine design detail. Some say due to the use of paper you cannot calculate system response times, do not find all classes of problems with an interface and most of all this makes some development teams nervous because they fear users will think it is unprofessional, and few have problems with getting their hands dirty on re- iterating a sketch since few non designers in the team believe they are not good in Sketching, the usual Right VS Left brain myth.__________________________________________________________________For the Above activity which was conducted in If my Business or Management graduate friends ask me the Return of Investment for this activity, I don’t have an answer nor would waste my time figuring that out.For my friends in the Delivery unit, I understand that you are responsible for the aggressive drive to produce quality work and ship that product as soon as possible. But these two criteria contradict with each other and at the end of the day to build great product you need to have a good culture within the team, I am sure the other participants like Developers or Testers would love to be part of building something.It doesn’t have to be, by doing this I really enjoyed my time in office and besides bringing out my inner child, I also found I can have fun building a clean product, all I know is I was really satisfied doing it and would love to continue it as long as it works. However, great teams selectively embrace new thinking, new ideas, new methods  new tools.Why a new add-on to process all of a sudden ?It’s just my attempt to tweak an existing process to suite my needs, and it is an honest attempt to show some empathy offline to my fellow peers by opening an active participation culture, it is also an attempt to not fall prey for sheep behavior.This a high alert emergent problem in the creative and innovation field where there are lots of gurus who unearth their Success stories, it’s good to listen to them, but foolishness to follow without question. Some of the most successful people like Steve Jobs, Don Norman, Allen Cooper have their own contribution towards Design, it is true they set the standards in design, respect it, embrace it, use it in projects, but those are not the bible and rule book to right design. Knowing the rules and breaking them sensibly is the best universal truth to stay original and this has worked all the time even for the above legends. What worked for legends might not work for you all the time. Each one has your own goal towards creativity; every path to success is different, as you are unique. Instead of it, we just fall prey to stardom in a creative community who just wants to be a Steve Jobs clone! It is high time we realize and work on the methods which work best for us and methods which bread creativity as well as good empathy towards Users!I find the Kay Redfield quote applies to all, not just childrenUX Designer..Anti- Racist,Future Entrepreneur ..95% Feminist!! Creative Strategist, Jugaad Enthusiast, LEGO lover

As UX Designers, we like to throw down knowledge in meetings, using words of wisdom like Naturally, as with any relatively groundbreaking concept, there will be people that take it entirely too far. In this particular case, I quickly realized that I wanted to be one of those people. That’s how I met Richard Littauer of All jokes aside, we actually ended up getting some That kind of honest feedback is rare in traditional user testing sessions, especially when they’re remote and unmoderated. This is partially because there are inherent discrepancies between Now, there isn’t anything intrinsically wrong with that practice. Considering how large UserTesting.com’s panel is (over one million people), it’s important for the client to be able to filter out low quality participants. However, with the rating system hanging over users’ heads, it tends to place an odd pressure on the user to So, what is it about the drunk user that we actually love? What sets them apart and allows them to supply such useful feedback? What separates their feedback from standard user testing feedback? Most importantly, do they really need to be drunk in order to supply the feedback that we’re looking for?I would argue that everything we love about the drunk user can actually be replicated with a sober user. In the case of remote unmoderated user testing, this requires three critical components: a good research participant panel, a good user testing platform, and a good UX Designer. To further understand the responsibilities that each of these components hold, we can first take a look at what we love about drunk users (and what makes for a good user test):Now that we know why we love the drunk user, we can begin to look into ways to create truly simple designs that even a drunk could understand. Because this concept can encompass many different areas of design, I’m going to begin with the basic fundamentals and then transition into more UX-intensive concepts.Even the most expertly-constructed designs need to be verified with users. That’s where user testing comes in (and if you do it right, the users don’t even have to be drunk). I’m going to start with some general “best practices” and then transition into more specific tactics.Once you’re confident in your individual approach to user testing, you’ll want to start bringing your team on board. The absolute best products and designs come out of companies that have built a culture around user experience, where each member of the organization understands who their user is, why the design looks and functions the way that it does, and what UX does to impact the bottom-line.Regardless of your level of proficiency with UX, you can begin instilling “drunk user principles” in your designs today. Start with the fundamentals; aim for simple and usable designs. Then gather high quality user feedback by properly leveraging the tools at your disposal. Finally, bring your co-workers on board and initiate a team-wide effort to design with the user at heart. Before you know it, drunk and sober people alike will be loving your product.UX Designer, speaker, and author at 

This is the first in what will become a series of unsolicited UX mini audits. Like many of you I use a variety of apps to help me get work done. If you’re a UX/visual designer or a developer, then I’m sure you’ve had moments, even in your favorite apps, where you’ve thought:‘This series is devoted to these kinds of musings.Buffer’s on-boarding deserves special mention. It’s a study in intuitive UX, and makes great use of animation that enhances, rather than distracts.As amazing as Buffer is, there were a couple of small UI/UX issues which stood out as candidates for possible improvement.The first time I encountered this UI, I was momentarily unsure of how to proceed.The issue here is with 3 UI action items, highlighted above, which have effectively the same level of importance.The first time I triggered this popup I actually missed the smaller ‘Schedule’ button and instead wentThe effect of which was the opposite of what I intended. It immediately added the post to the queue, instead of delaying the post to my selected date.I think this interaction would be improved if it were modal. Here’s a quick mockup to illustrateThis is an improvement because at each stage of the UX there is only one interactive element the user is presented with, which guides the user through the process.I’m not a fan of mystery menus. The discovery of the card buttons occurs after you have hovered over the card. This isn’t optimal for a number of reasonsThe UI probably looks a little less pretty when there are multiple cards on screen at once. This seems like a case of I’d do away with the mystery menu, and possibly experiment with reducing opacity if visual clutter is an issue.Don’t hide your UI away (particularly for aesthetic reasons). Whether you love or hate Microsoft’s ribbon interface, it’s based on millions of dollars worth of usability testing, which concluded that: options that are hidden away pose a serious discoverability issue.This is a textbook example of gratuitous animation. It adds nothing to the interaction, and only serves to slow me down. There’s no ambiguity with regard to where the image came from which makes the animation superfluous.The solution is a simple one. Just ditch the animation. Here’s a mockup to illustrate.Yaay! I just gained back Admittedly, these are I’d love to hear your thoughts about these proposed improvements. Do you think the suggestions improved the user experience or made it worse? Either way I’d love to hear what you think!Developers may not need to blog; but here your words are not wasted.

Be curious. Observe the world around you and ask yourself, ‘Why is that like that? Why do people do things that way? How could it be simpler? What’s the problem? How could we solve it?’Like this post? Buy my Freelance UX consultant; Former comedy producer; Trained Chinese chef; Ecyclist; Writing ‘Designing a UX portfolio’ (O’Reilly Media)

Is the term UX still needed? What do these terms even mean anymore?In 12+ years doing design for digital applications, I’ve encountered many designers who believe their job is (a) — making things pretty. And they are darn good at it. They hone their craft, obsessing over drop shadows in Photoshop or Sketch, creating beautiful pixel perfect icons, making buttons positively Isn’t that what you think of when you think of a designer? Pantone color chips, lots of sketchbooks filled with swaths of color and gestural hand-lettered sayings like “dream” and “believe”, mood boards, and a mug with something on it in Helvetica?I’ve also known many fantastic designers who rarely open Photoshop and couldn’t care less what color gradient you use in the background. These folks are generally (b) — design to them means planning, brainstorming, organizing, research, and strategy.You may often find them surrounded by markers, post-its, and index cards. They’re always talking to people and having brainstorms or workshops and creating a general buzz of excitement around “design thinking.”I’ve begun instructing and mentoring UX design students this year. Many people who want to get into the field have read up on the subject, sure, but still find the terms confusing. “This is my first experience in web  tech, it’s hard to read about,” said one of my new students this week. “How is UX different than other parts of web design?”I used to believe a UX designer was simply someone who did both (a) and (b), applied to digital applications.So the “U” indicates this has to do with computers  tech, and the “X” stands for the experience a person is having when doing something with computers  tech.In the old days, before UX was a thing, we were starting to get some web design. Some folks did good design, but a lot of people did bad design, by which I mean they didn’t really think about how their thing was going to be used, by whom, and what for, so stuff got really complicated and hard to use.Some industry leaders started blogging and publishing thoughts (btw I think this is also about when we started using the term thoughtleader) and someone came up with the term UX and the thing just exploded.Now you can look at a design and say, instead of “is it good?” ask “is the person using this having a good experience?” Now you have a whole host of things you can measure. Who is the person using this? What do they consider a good experience? Let’s ask them! Let’s empathize with them. Let’s document their experience so we can analyze the whole journey. Now what do we actually want their experience to be?So that’s what UX design has become. A way of proactively creating a good experience, as defined by specific goals, for a defined set of users.In other words, a process for creating an experience that meets specific goals for a defined audience.Theatre set designers create an experience that meets the goals of mood, emotion, sense of place, etc. for a performance’s audience.Brand identity designers create an experience that meets the goals of recognition, emotion, etc. for a brand’s audience.Industrial designers create an experience that meets the goals of usefulness, aesthetics, etc. for users of a particular product.Software designers create an experience that meets the goals of usability, usefulness, aesthetics, emotion, etc. for users of a digital product.Design is design.When we lose sight of the intended audience or goals, or we fail to validate that we’ve met those goals with that audience, we tend to get bad design.When we define our goals and our audience, and we validate our designs, we tend to get good design.-UX design coach  mentor in San Francisco Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

I’ve outlined several of the most common user experience research methods which are most prevalent and relevant today. I’ve weighed pros and cons, and included high-level cost breakdowns.Heuristic evaluation is an informal method of discovering and identifying usability issues in which one or more “expert” individuals inspect and evaluate the product. Evaluation can be completed within a couple of hours (more or less, depending upon the scope and degree of complexity) and may or may not follow heuristic guidelines established by industry experts (such as Nielsen’s heuristics [standard], Gerhardt-Powals’ cognitive engineering principles, Weinshenk  Barker classification).This can easily be performed at a high level and oftentimes is already occurring. Stakeholders and product experts frequently weigh-in on the design, functionality, and usability from start to completion of most projects. Fortunately this seldom requires any additional cost to the company — hooray!Not every individual will uncover the same usability problems. The term “expert” is subjective and findings often vary between individuals. It is up to the product team to create a systematic approach in order to uncover all usability problems.Establishing a foundation for good customer service is vital for the developing and maintaining a user-centered product. Listening to your customers will provide direct insight into determining the user’s needs.Most users are eager to give feedback regarding pain points to Customer Service. Most companies already have the tools in place to measure and determine these needs — at no additional cost!Customer feedback can be extremely subjective, what’s good for the goose isn’t always good for the gander. Allowing designer(s) accessibility to customer feedback and incorporating it into the team’s workflow may be a challenge in an environment that is not agile.Surveys can be collected in-person, via e-mail, or through portals within the platform itself (intercept). I’ve found that surveys yield the best results when they are short, granular and clearly stated. This often results in ideal objective answers surveys which are especially fast to complete, review and analyze.Surveys are typically free or inexpensive, quick to produce, and enable access to remote users. The results are received asynchronously (sit back  relax!), and can be quantified.What people A user persona is essentially a snapshot of what the standard user of a product looks like. We will take the following information and create a user’s back story to add a more human element to the product.“Our target demographic is female, American, between the ages of 36–48, and makes between $55–75k/yr.”“This is our user, Becky. Becky is 41, Caucasian, and lives in Los Angeles with her husband, 10 year old son and their dog. Becky loves technology, uses all the latest apps and always upgrades to the newest iPhone. Despite loving technology, she maintains balance by being frugal in all other aspects of her life. She earns $75k/yr with a household income of $115k/yr and holds a B.A. in Communications.”The user persona is based on actual data from the marketing and/or analytics teams, though some information can be improvised for sake of a 360º view. Using a persona will help answer design-related questions by keeping the user in mind at all times. As designers, we constantly ask ourselves and our stakeholders about how the user will interact with the product. “Would Becky use this feature? Could Becky understand this without a tutorial?” Oftentimes, multiple user personas are created to represent the majority 2–3 demographics, as well as an outlier. For example, multiple user personas could be represented by making this assumption: “Becky, Juan and Brenda would be able to understand this easily, but Henry may have some difficulty.”Oftentimes, this requires no additional cost. Creating a user persona can be quick and easy because when using data that already exists within a company’s market/client research. I recommend printing out and posting the user persona(s) so that it’s easily accessible, and when questions arise, the conversations are always user-focused.The user persona is not a real person, it is purely hypothetical. You can’t gather any additional information about them, nor ask specific user questions.User interviews are exactly how they sound and more complex than they may appear.Useful for determining high-level ideas/general  overall attitudes. The more granular the questions the more fallible the responses.Referencing the past and accidentally This is when multiple designers all attempt to create alternative designs (can be done by individuals or by multiple teams) simultaneously without input from each other. This is to see where consistencies and design concepts are aligned and what areas deviate and require rework. The following iterations thereafter will contain the majority-ruled design concepts. Focus can then shift to creating alternative/creative/hybrid solutions in the areas that weren’t aligned.Uniting and validating design concepts and solutions. Time, energy and focus devoted to the areas that need the most work; oftentimes resulting in a team’s most creative solutions and work. Also, free!Can be time-consuming and not always efficient or effective with smaller teams/departments.A wireframe is a visual representation of what a webpage or app will look like before it is built by developers. Wireframes can be represented by varying levels of fidelity; from rough hand drawn sketches, to computer drawn with grayscale block image representations, to high-fidelity, pixel-perfect images that look exactly like the site itself. There are a vast number of wireframing tools available with varying degrees of sophistication (Balsamiq, Axure, and Sketch are examples of some popular tools).Wireframes allow us to see a visual representation of how all of the content will fit on the page and how these pages will connect to each other. Because tech development is more time consuming than wireframing, it’s much more efficient to get the layout designed first as it often take multiple iterations before determining the best placement. Wireframing is also a helpful visual tool to assist communication with developers and stakeholders, especially as the designs become increasingly complex.At minimum, lo-fi wireframe sketches should be an established part of any workflow. As it is crucial in determining the layout and flow of any project and communicating this visually to the development teams and stakeholders.Essential in e-commerce and ad-click business models, click paths can be monitored using analytics programs such as Google Analytics. This allows us to understand how the user is navigating the site by tracking where and what they click on. We can then determine what features are popular as well was what they’re not using or are overlooking within the site.The data retrieved is quantifiable and allows us to establish KPIs. We can analyze the path of the majority, including what features and functions are being used most as well as which are being underutilized or ignored.Analytical data doesn’t explain the reasons behind user behavior, and the more complex clickstream analysis tools will require additional costs (for example, CrazyEgg.com = $100/mo for their Pro tool).For A/B Testing (also known as “multivariate testing”), we create and release 2+ versions of the same design and measure which one performs best. This is mostly used for short-term tracking and conversion rates (i.e. e-commerce, email newsletters, subscriptions, downloading whitepapers, etc).It is free, or cheap, and easy to use. A/B Testing helps determine an answer when there are multiple possible solutions.This method can only be applied if a project has a clear goal or KPI(s). Example: We use card sorting to determine both a current site and a new site’s information architecture and navigation design. This is very useful for determining an FAQ structure, creating a site map, and determining product categorization. How it works:2–5 participants (5 is best, actual users preferred — 3x yields best quantitative data) are given cards ( Post-It or index) representing a page on the site (no more than 40) and grouping them first into categories, then organize those categories into hierarchical branches.Quick, easy, cheap and effective! This is a fun, easy way to get user input while organizing the, often complex, structure of the site.Recruiting participants is really the only drawback.The difference between Can be conducted remotely with online tools (UserTesting.com, for example). Doesn’t require a large sample size (3–5 users is typically adequate). Online tools allow ability to easily filter participant sample demographic and asynchronously receive responses (set it  forget it), and there are video recorded screen shares that can be downloaded and referred back to throughout the design process.At a typical $50/test (unsure of subscription pricing), costs can add up quickly if not careful. Poorly worded questions/tasks can easily derail a test, and remote testers don’t have access to moderator to remain on track.As you may have guessed, an unmoderated usability testing approach is a freeform style of testing the participant to observe their natural behavior when using the site. A hybrid of moderated and unmoderated testing styles is often applied.Less costly/time-consuming. Another method of analyzing metrics (i.e. time spent on task, clickstream paths, time spent on page, task-completion rate, etc) free of moderator intrusion. The same PROS as the Moderated Usability Testing can be applied here as well.Minimal or no follow up questions/feedback/open-ended conversations. Requires additional time to ensure test quality prior to launch.Ranging from paper sketches to high fidelity interactive mock-ups that look and behave exactly like the end-product, rapid prototyping is a useful method to stealthily determining UX design solutions within an iterative process.The ability to actually Complex interfaces and interactions can be time consuming to create in some instances. Sketches can sometimes leave the user unclear/confused. Limited task flow prototypes can “trap” users who aren’t given proper instruction.Often part of the initial research phase of the design process, and often with the assistance of the Marketing team. This phase of research answers the questions — “Who is doing this best and how can I improve on that?” “What are our competitors doing wrong/right?” “What do their customers hate/love?” “What are the best practices?” “What are common mistakes?”Free (when utilizing existing market research)! Solves taxonomy problems by recognizing organizational standards. Provides clarity on design principles within a particular industry. High-level inventory charts allow for side by side comparison of features and interactions.Time consuming to create and requires in-depth research to define. However, there is really no good reason why this should not be executed should the research already exist.This user research method is performed by requiring participants to keep a living list or diary of thoughts they have as they use the site. Ideally, we want to know everything; the good, the bad and the ugly.We gain direct insight into the user’s personal experience and thought-processes as they interact with the productThis insight can be highly subjective and would require multiple participants, making it difficult to recruit and monitor everyone involved.Contextual inquiry is a subset of the ethnographic research design utilized in true user-centered design. It is a semi-structured, one-on-one interaction with the user in their actual workplace. Which combines asking structured questions and observing the user using the product in their own environment, within context. It can be done in combination with other research techniques (i.e. individual interviews).Fast  easy to produce. The BEST way of determining almost exactly how the user interacts with the product, free of influence. Vital tacit knowledge obtained, the best way to determine how a user uses a product — observe them using it! Extremely convenient for the user.User’s workplace security measures can sometimes be an obstacle. Results are qualitative, not quantitative. Travel time and costs the designer incurs are a noteworthy variable.Focus groups work best when trying to determine the user’s needs either prior to interface design or long after implementation. This should not be used as the sole source of user feedback and should serve as supportive information.We gain direct access to the users themselves. These are usually conversational and can encourage feedback not always gained through other methods.Focus groups are expensive! Not only is it difficult to recruit participants, time and travel to a specified, neutral location is also required. At times, monetary incentives must also be used to attract participants. In addition to renting a space (for neutrality), we must hire a professional moderator at an hourly rate. When conducting focus groups, we must keep in mind that whatever the users Submitting questions to for the Marketing team to include (if they are already planning to conduct a focus group for market research) could provide UX Designers with user feedback without incurring additional costs.You often hear people use buzzwords such as “lean” and “agile” when discussing UX and how it relates to businesses, specifically startups. People mistakenly use the terms interchangeably quite often, causing a general confusion in the industry about what it means, its level of importance and whether or not to adopt these practices.Lean UX integrates with Agile UX and the overall Agile Scrum framework. It emphasizes the creation and shipment of a core minimal viable product (MVP) as quickly as possible and utilizing “learning loops” (build — measure — learn). Constantly gathering data on the target user (as opposed to the entire demographic) and uses this information to fuel the design process and future iterations of the product. Some argue that even the term “Lean UX” is unnecessary as it is just simply The Agile methodology was created to go up against the classic Waterfall development process, which is heavy in documentation and leaves little to no room for development (and ultimately) design changes as new information is discovered through the process. Agile emphasizes a dynamic process as opposed to a static one, allowing for such changes to occur mid-project as user information/data is uncovered. We currently subscribe to the Agile method and as we push to include more lean UX methodologies, the two will continue to integrate seamlessly as we push to design an (even more) user-centered product.

A friend of mine is taking over a new Product Manager role where he will have responsibility for a lot of user-centered design work like basic usability testing, persona creation, experience mapping, and anything else that would qualify as “lean UX.”He asked me what books, blogs, podcasts, etc. he should check out to start building some UX chops. That got me thinking…Not necessarily the absolute best or the “classics.” No format requirements, they can be books, blogs, or Pinterest boards. They just have to be the resources with the most longevity and consistent usefulness for me so far. Here’s my list.These are the big ideas to contextualize your UX work and simple steps to get started.What is really nice is they separate the OK, now that the foundation is there, it’s time to iterate and hone your craft.I like pithy quotes a lot. I relate to a lot of “new” problems through them. Here are some that seem to keep coming back up for me and guide my decision making.Margaret Mead. I think about this quote multiple times a day and repeat it whenever possible.Bill Moggridge. Self-explanatory.Henry Ford quoted in “How to Win Friends and Influence People”, Carnegie, 1937. This is much better than the “faster horses” one that has no evidence Ford actually said.William Gibson (1993). Good reminder to poke your head up and look around once in a while. You might find the solution to your problem already solved in another domain.That’s it for me. It was really fun looking through all of these resources and thinking about why some have stuck with me and been applicable in so many domains.This is just my take. Really interested to hear what resources have stood the test of time for other folks.Design and UX

The best UI is no UI at all! Users aren’t using your app so that they can admire all of your amazing GUI design. They’re there because they want to get stuff done. Whether it’s read an article or publish content, the speed with which users can interact with your application will be one of the major deciding factors for user satisfaction.This simple brainstorming session isn’t here to break any new ground. Awesome tools such as Medium already make non-blocking UI a core part of the user experience. Instead this mini-article’s goal is to refresh my own thinking with regard to creating a UI that gets out of the way, while still communicating all it needs to to the end user.I hope you find it useful!The following example demonstrates a workflow which is still all too common. The user needs to wait for a potentially long running network request to succeed before being allowed to continue working with their document.An optimistic UI update is one that assumes the requested operation will finish successfully. Instead of waiting for the image to upload, and then updating the UI, we can instead assume that the upload will succeed and immediately update the interface.Of course the danger here is that This certainly adds complexity for the development team, however the improvements to the end user’s experience far outweigh the burden of additional development time.The following is just one way in which an improved user flow could be implemented.There is an immediate improvement in regard to user flow with this example. Instead of waiting and watching a progress spinner the user can get on with editing the document as the image uploads. Using a progress bar that is visually close the image being uploaded gives the user a good indication of what the application is doing.We can further make a small improvement though, by more explicitly communicating to the user that an event has occurred.The success notification isn’t strictly necessary, but striking the correct balance between under and over communicating is difficult and you should always resort to user testing to determine where that balance lies.Start considering non-blocking options for all of your UX/UI design. Your users will love you for it!If you have any comments then please share them!

I recently graduated from the University of Maryland with a degree in Materials Science and Engineering. After spending over a month in Europe I moved to San Francisco for a job in technology consulting. In my free time I like to fly my drone, do a little videography, and work on graphic design. Up until now my work has mainly consisted of flyers, logos, and short motion graphic videos, but the SF culture has recently got me hooked on UX and UI.Actually, I really shouldnt say I have more “free time”, just generally more time. Not having classes to go to or tests to study for has, not surprisingly, left me with more time to do…whatever. My consulting job keeps me plenty busy, but since I am trying to shift my career towards design and digital marketing I figure this type of work is a win-win.I used screenshots of the app to eye drop the main colors used within the app. In addition, snapchat implements some opacity on its shutter and next buttons (I decided on 70% opacity for those).I tried to figure out what font snapchat uses in the various parts of the app but couldnt find anything solid. I ended up varying the font styles of Helvetica Neue based on what I thought fit best.I, like many of you, am an avid snapchatter. It’s a great, simple concept. Share what you’re doing at that moment with your friends and family(this could be dangerous if youve added your parents). A not so recent update allowed you to join “local stories” in addition to creating your own. These stories based on location are great, but what if I wanted to share my snaps with ONLY the same group of people all the time? You can imagine how this would appeal to college roommates, fraternities and sororities, family members, really any group of friends. I thought it would be a good exercise to recreate snapchat with this new functionality I called “circles”.I kept the actual snapping portion of the app the same in order to stay consistent with previous builds of the app.After the photo is taken, the user is brought to the edit screen(I left the recently added sticker button out to make the recreation process easier). The snapchat circles button is now located to the right of the download button. Again, I didn’t want to stray too far from the implemented design, so rather than create a entirely new edit page I went with a simple icon that will bring the user to a new “share with” screen.In terms of the icon creation, I had some ideas in mind for expressing sharing a photo with the same group of friends. At first, I played around with geofence and map based designs but ultimately decided that people want to share these moments with certain “circles” of friends. Get it?! Circles of friends!?If you are familiar with the app, you know that once you are done editing your photo you are brought to a “share with” screen. From here you can pick multiple people to share with. In my concept, by clicking on the circles icon on the previous screen you are brought to the screen on the left. This new section allows you to either start a new circle or add to an existing one.The viewing snaps screen is largely unchanged(again, for the sake of time I did not recreate the local story or discovery portions). All of your current circle stories appear here for viewing. If you have created a new circle or someone has added you to a circle it will appear in the most left slot with a “new” icon.Even though snapchat stays true to their one logo, I thought it would be cool to apply the circles icon design to the main “boo” icon. In this case, I altered the icon to match the white fill and black stroke(this also makes it a lot easier to see on the harsh yellow)Lessons learned.I would love to hear feedback! Any advice or knowledge would be most appreciatedEmail: 

A week ago, I was at my home; packing my stuff to leave for Mumbai — the place where I work. My sister, who recently moved to Mumbai for studies, had asked me to bring one bag from home.I just asked my mother to give an old bag which was lying around for my sister. She found one bag and gave it to me after filling it with stuff I needed so that I could simply keep the stuff and give that bag to my sister. After reaching Mumbai, when I was emptying the bag, I found a tiny little piece of paper inside the bag on which my mom had scribbled.The piece of paper had my sister’s name, phone number, college name and address.To give you some context, my sister had lost her previous bag which is why I had to bring one for her from home. My mom knew this (by reading historical data, if you will) and was thoughtful enough to put an identification card in the bag, in case it’s lost again.This was not the only time she had done something like this so that her children have an easier experience. Whenever I am about to leave for a train journey, I always ask her not to pack anything to eat because it just adds a to the amount of weight that I have to carry. Plus, I can always buy stuff from pantry if I am hungry.She secretly packs food and tells me after the train has left. She asks me to eat it just in case I can’t find food. And invariably, my stomach starts growling and no one is in sight to buy stuff from. Mom’s And how can she not make your favourite food when you’re coming home? It’ll be a crime for her to not do that.I could just go on and on but I guess you get what I am trying to say. The kind of experience you get when you deal with your mother is probably the best experience you can get anywhere in the world.After all, you My point being that you should treat your users with the same love and affection which you receive from your mother. Always be thinking about their interactions with the app and remove the friction. Make choices for them using the historical data. Try to guess as much information as you can.Make sure you predict what will go wrong and make an active effort to fix the issue. Understand what the users really want versus what they say they want. And, sometimes, just shower them with the kind of pampering they will not find anywhere else.Google, with the knowledge of your tickets in your inbox through Gmail, reminds you that you already have these tickets when you search for some more.People have been asking airlines to increase leg space between seats, claiming they’re willing to pay a premium for it. But the airlines aren’t falling for this. They did it once and found that people only booked the flights with cheapest fares. So they let go of extra space to accommodate more people at reduced rates for everyone.Just check Snapchat on your birthday, all messages have a gift as icon in place of blue or red squares. You also get some different photo filters exclusive for your location and time. How can you not feel special with things like these?The small details like these become the difference between having customers and loyal fans.Thanks mom, for everything.If you liked reading this post, don’t forget to shower some love by hitting that Recommend button or sharing with your friends! 😄Pleased to see you :)

For the past year, I had led the re-invigoration of user experience (UX) at a Series C stage enterprise software startup, developing a cohesive, robust foundation with both company-wide  executive support. This included a mix of the following:Being my first startup leadership role, this certainly proved to be a valuable “high learning, high growth” opportunity filled with lessons, both small and large. I’d like to share a few that made the most definitive mark on me, shaping my design leadership model going forward. Hopefully this will help other design leaders in similar dynamic, small-team situations!Design leadership is incredibly difficult, perhaps made more so because of the glare of the spotlight now that UX is “hot” and finally recognized by execs and boards as a key ingredient to company success. While you may be a “team of one,” or even just a few, the kinds of learnings itemized here will enable a productive, design-led path for the entire company. Good luck!Design catalyst / leader / speaker / teacher. Always striving to bring beauty  soul to digital experiences.

All good visual artists understand the importance of negative space, the empty area that draws attention to, and accentuates, the actual subject.Negative space (the artistic equivalent of a designer’s white space) is like the supporting cast whose duty is to make the star of the show stand out more by not standing out so much themselves.In interaction design, white space isn’t just an aesthetic choice — it serves four essential functions.If cluttering your interface overloads your user with too much information, then reducing the clutter will only improve comprehension.In fact, properly using white space between paragraphs and in the left and right margins has been proven to increase comprehension up to 20%, as pointed out by Dmitry Fadeyev, creator of Like we first explained in The homepage immediately facilitates that goal by placing content front and center, with plenty of white space on either side to add emphasis .Beyond improving comprehension, white space also helps create mental maps. Minimal white space is used between the top navigation and content stream since both serve similar functions in driving the user deeper into content (and similar functions should be grouped together). Because the right-side navigation focuses more on creating and saving content, more white space separates it from the content stream.In this case, white space helps users assign different functionalities to different parts of the interface.Once you click through to an article, white space helps focus the user on what they care about most: the content. Notice how the extra spacing between each line of text improves readability. On a subtler note, the space around the JW Marriott logo calls attention to the brand without feeling intrusive (a perfect counter-argument against the “Make the logo bigger!” remarks).Just like the homepage, you can see that plenty of white space once again creates distance between groups of objects that serve different functions. For example, notice the amount of space between the primary content and the commenting/favoriting/share features on the bottom right.Ultimately, proper use of white space eliminates waste in your interface. Each interaction with the user, therefore, feels necessary in helping them accomplish their goal.To learn more about white space, check out Smashing Magazine’s listing of When observing how individuals organize visual information, Gestalt psychologists stumbled on what they call the Law of Proximity, which states that images near to each other appear similar. For example, take a look at this picture:Almost everyone sees two groups of dots, rather than simply 20 dots. The dots are all identical and the only thing differentiating them is the white space that separates them. This behavioral observation has As described in In the form on the right, just categorizing the 15 fields into three groups makes the process feel easier. The amount of content is the same, but the impression on users is much different. Form fields usually present the most friction to users, but the same principles can also apply to navigation and site content.Instead of a top navigation menu with 20 items, you can create a dropdown menu with four to seven top-level items and the rest categorized under submenus.As we noted above, the lack of other elements will only make existing elements stand out more.Our In the above high-fidelity Combined with an animation-like color fill that’s triggered on hover, the category section now attracts even more attention while providing better feedback to the user. But because humans have a Most designers subscribe to the “don’t make the user think” school of thought. It’s not that users are just lazy, it’s that they already have a lot on their mind, and cramming extra information just makes it harder to complete their tasks. The amount of strain an interface design creates is called “Over the years, designers have developed strategies for minimizing cognitive load without sacrificing features. As complicated as the human brain is, its shortcomings are surprisingly predictable.In 1956, scientist George Miller released his findings that our short-term memory can usually retain data of Chunking is not a hard-and-fast rule, but one that depends upon the context. In brief, chunking is ideal for the following situations:On the other hand, you don’t need to chunk your content if it’s meant to be searched or browsed. There are exceptions, of course, as you can see below with While users don’t need to memorize the categories, chunking out the content on the category-level adds visual hierarchy. Once you click into the category, the chunking disappears and the items are listed. It wouldn’t make sense to apply chunking at the item-level since you can understand the frustration from browsing only 5–6 items per page.Etsy’s treatment allows users enjoy the best of both worlds. A large amount of products are presented, but users don’t feel overstimulated. In the example above, there are 32 different products on the screen. Using any other design, the user could feel lost or distracted. Thanks to chunking, users can process all the information while honing in on the “chunks” that most interest them.Ultimately, you need to understand that the power of white space comes from the limits of human attention and memory.Just compare the Space can either take away or add value to your content — it all depends on how you use it.Create too much space between related interface objects and your design becomes frustrating. Cram too many objects together, and your design becomes too cluttered. Pay attention to space when creating your layouts, particularly its relationship to user memory and how proximity can convey meaning better than a wordy explanation.Space holds a lot of weight in interaction design — which is saying a lot for something that is technically nothing.Collaborative design for everyone.

Building a portfolio is a daunting task. It’s extra work that no one wants to spend nights and weekends on — but getting it done is the number one thing standing between you and an interview for your dream job, or maybe a trip to a really great conference (see the shameless plug at the end of this post).Here are 5 tips to help get your portfolio noticed:An introduction or “about me” section is your chance to make a personal elevator pitch for your unique talents and interests. How did you get here? What are your personal strengths? What do you do outside of work, or in your past, that you bring with you? Be concise, but make it personal! Hiring managers and potential peers want to get a sense of who you are, and why we want to work with you.Go for quality over quantity, and only show work that you are truly proud of. Choose a mix of projects that shows the range of your experience. Include school, volunteer or personal passion projects. Choose your screens or other images carefully, ensuring the level of polish represents your best work, and pay attention to every word you write. And be sure to get some other eyes on your portfolio before sending it out; like any design project, critique from others will help you make it better.UX isn’t just about pretty screens, it’s about problem solving. Share your process. What problem were you trying to solve? What constraints did you have? What did you learn along the way? It’s ok to show ideas left on the cutting room floor. Don’t be overly verbose but show evidence of a robust and thoughtful workflow.In the real world, UX practitioners rarely work in a vacuum, and playing well with others really matters. State your role on each project, and the type of team that you worked with. We want to see how you work with designers, researchers, developers, product managers, and anyone else you’re collaborating with.Were you able to validate your designs with end-users? Did you deliver research that changed the strategy for a project or product? What impact did your work have on the organization or business? Relevant metrics always make a strong impression, so be sure to include those if you have them.Grace Hopper Conference (winner gets an interview with our team as well!): Secret Handshake Conference: A collection of stories, case studies, and ideas from Salesforce UX

Yes, this article is about the little squares and arrows that we do or should do in our Many people, from many different departments from product teams or agencies, neglect and don’t take seriously the importance of structuring ideas, structuring interaction, and structuring When we intend to build a house, we look for an expert in the field that can help us design the structure of what may become our home. As a home we want it to be previously and meticulously well studied so it has a sturdy and stable foundation before it is time to move in. The walls have to be resistant and strong, the divisions of the house well structured to face the needs of our family, the roof strong and consistent, and the hallways easy to roam so that reaching the desired division of the house doesn’t trigger a migraine.Then, during the process of designing a digital experience, should one not structure the “home” in the same way? The latter will be visited and used by thousands of users whose needs differ and look for different solutions.Wireframe is nothing more and nothing less than the structure of that “home” — where we put the divisions we want and where we want them, and, of course, where we define the hallways that will allow us to access easily where we want to reach.This should be the primary process in the development of any project, and it should be collaborative. It’s important to involve the entire team in this process without neglecting, equally, the involvement of the client — this step is specially crucial for success. All team members have different ways of navigating and may play the role of different profiles, reflecting as consequence, the behaviour of those whom will become the end users — this is a simple and objective way of performing an User Testing exercise. In this exercise it will be possible to outwit primary navigation problems that would harm the usability by the users in the future. It is immensely important that all these problems are detected and tackled at this stage, so that when the project is designed, the latter has a sturdy foundation at its base and it is properly structured. This will bring much less complications in the devlopment and programming phase — the architectural blueprint is essential for the sucess of engineers likewise.It is of considerable importance to highlight that even after the project is structured, it should be once again analysed, questioned, doubted, and analysed once again, and many other hesitations expressed. Ultimately, disccussed! Consequently, a good structure will be obtained for the next stage.There are some tools that simplify, by far, the process of wireframing. These products are designed to facilitate the process and the majority can be used online. These are composed of inumerous graphic elements such as Boxes, Headlines, Arrows, amongst others, that through a simplistic system of DragDrop contribute to the construction of our wireframe.I am going to introduce you three examples, one of which I currently use. For the others I leave you with a brief description of the product.It is the product I use nowadays — I draw in Photoshop or Sketch, export the Boards and do a small prototyping.In-Vision is one of the most complete tools out there, created by designers for designers. It allows us to develop prototypes, either in the wireframe phase or either in the design phase. It also allows us to design workflows and to receive feedback of people we share it with in real time, be it members of the team or the client itself.Art Director at J. Walter Thompson Lisbon | Portugala collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

Ever since smartphones But when I mentioned in the title that mobile UX design is changing desktop design, I wasn’t referring to mobile-first design and how we progressively design for richer UX as we move to a desktop. By looking at a few examples of mobile UX elements that crept into desktops, we can understand why they work, and how to design better desktop experiences.We don’t need to look hard to find the first example of UX elements crossing from mobile to desktops.It’s not difficult nowadays to differentiate between newly (re)designed websites from old sites. In almost all cases, new sites feature minimal or hidden navigation bars and large typography.With time, however, designers found that the streamlined mobile UX design makes sense on desktops too, because larger fonts and streamlined peripheral content means greater focus and clarity in the experience of browsing the site. And when websites become more streamlined and focused, Medium pretty much changed the UX of creating articles. Besides the ease and power of its In 2009, Apple released iOS 3, and one of the major features of that version was the ability to cut, copy and paste text. Ever since then, we’ve been used to the contextual menu that pops up whenever we select texts on our mobile devices.So, naturally, when Medium incorporated this UX element into its text editor, it felt Why do these examples of mobile UX element migration work so damn well? The key, as you might have already guessed, lies in their simplicity.In the early 1980s, industrial designer Dieter Rams asked himself what makes good design good. To answer that question, he Of course, not all mobile UX elements are suitable for their desktop cousins. But mobile design provides a vast pool of UX practices that might be an improvement over older desktop conventions, and it would be a rewarding endeavour to examine which mobile UX elements should be brought over to desktops.With this in mind, we can look for other cases of great mobile UX design that would work brilliantly on desktops.Gestures are an essential part of mobile UX. With Apple’s first iPhone and its capacitive touch screen, taps, swipes and flicks have become an intuitive and efficient way of navigating apps and sites.For quite some time now, Apple’s OS X has incorporated gestures into its desktop UX, with two-, three- and four-finger swipes on its touchpads enabling users to zoom, pan and switch between apps. But with OS X El Capitan, gestures are coming back big time.The new Mail app in OS X El Capitan will support swipe gestures, enabling fast and intuitive trashing and archiving of emails. And this is just the beginning of how gestures can improve the desktop experience.Pull-to-refresh, originally designed by Twitter, is now a staple of iOS apps. The gesture, which combines iOS’s rubber band scrolling with users’ drag touch input, creates an intuitive and hassle-free way of refreshing the app and is most commonly used in apps with feeds, such as the native Mail app.What if we bring this gesture to the desktop? What if, for instance, websites such as YouTube, Facebook and nytimes implemented gestures into their UX design?Imagine pulling the top of the webpage to refresh your feed of recommended YouTube videos, or pulling the sidebar of a news site to get an updated feed of the latest news. The simplicity of such a gesture-based UX could create amazing, intuitive interactions for desktop users.Here’s some reasons why gestures are the future of desktop design.These factors combine to give gestures an intuitive and powerful place in the future of web and app design on desktops. Web browsers have already incorporated gestures (for example, swiping from left to right to go to the previous page), but it is now time for thoughtful, widespread implementation of gestures to simplify and improve the desktop UX.Could you see other ways mobile UX practices have changed desktop UX design? Or, do you think there are other mobile UX elements that should be implemented on the desktop? Drop a note and let’s discuss!I’m a graphic designer based in Singapore. I also publish a webcomic series and enjoy writing short fiction. And I’m studying accountancy. Unlike the deadly ninjas that infiltrate the darkness of your dreams, we bring you great articles about user experience, web design, and technology!

In August 2011, Marc Andreessen wrote an essay titled This particular topic hits home for me as I’ve made a career in the infrastructure world, most recently at DigitalOcean. Here, the User Experience (UX) resonates throughout the entire product. From my perspective, infrastructure shapes the UX of any online product/service through a number of ways, including speed, ease of use and the two big ones: uptime and availability. Each of these factors require a myriad of behind-the-scenes technical acumen in a range of disciplines — the choice and maintenance of hardware, engineering on the hypervisors, network engineering, security, etc.So what is the UX? In the software industry, it’s the experience you have interacting with a website or using an app. Your emotions, experiences, frustrations and satisfaction are what makes up your UX for a given product. The overall UX is always coupled together with the User Interface (UI). When you visit a particular website or use an app on your phone, you are interacting with the UI. At its core, UX is how you feel while interacting with and using the UI or other part of the product.Indeed much of the overall processes to create an exemplary UX are invisible to end users. For instance, the speed with which a product reacts or a website loads are all part of the UX. Specific hardware components also deliver UX through how they feel and in some cases are more important than the software running on them. For example, many people felt the initial iPad announcement from Apple was simply a huge iPod Touch; the software was all but identical. In reality, the form factor (size) of the hardware exploded into a tablet market many companies had previously attempted to crack with little success. That form factor change alone led to a positive UX as a tablet was now available with an operating system that was already beloved by and familiar to millions of users.Google is well known throughout Silicon Valley for its attention to UX. You can’t get a more functional homepage than what Google offers — they knew what they wanted to provide for users, and they executed flawlessly. The concept itself wasn’t new — Yahoo! (and others) already offered search engines — but Google was able to fully understand and explore user behavior to the point that it’s extremely rare to have to scroll to the second page of results to find what you’re looking for. Google’s results coupled with a minimalistic home page that requires absolutely no guesswork is a recipe for market-leading UX. Compare this with Yahoo!’s overly complex and ever-changing homepage and it’s fairly easy to see why Google rules the roost.On paper, MySpace should have remained the user-favorite social network. In July 2006, MySpace was the #1 visited website in the US and was owned by NewsCorp (so it had plenty of access to advertising capital and media). So what happened? MySpace was overly-focused on user customizability; users could edit their pages to no end with different backgrounds, themes, etc. The result? Terrible UX. Jumping from page to page was like leaping from one poorly designed site to the next.Facebook, on the other hand, offers a static format. So while users could still customize their information, where that information lives on the page and how it’s displayed is uniform from user to user. Things are where you expect them to be — a better user experience. Again we see a newcomer overtake an established early player by simplifying and offering a better UX.When Bloomberg entered into the financial market terminal business in the early 80s, several long-term incumbents largely dominated the financial terminal market, namely Thomson Reuters. Instead of focusing their efforts on IT departments of financial firms who were in charge of purchasing and installing financial terminals for their traders, Bloomberg went straight to the traders themselves. By focusing directly on the user and their needs Bloomberg was able to design a user-friendly terminal requiring little to no retraining for finance professionals. Bypassing the market’s traditional customers and going straight to the user proved to be a wise decision, as today Bloomberg has roughly 1/3rd of the financial terminal market, accounting for over 85% of revenue.So what did the user want? Before the days when the majority of Western households were blanketed in WiFi and computer literacy was nearly as necessary as literacy itself, the vast majority of finance professionals knew little about the machines they worked on, and had neither the time nor the inclination to learn them. Among other software advancements, the Bloomberg terminal replaced a traditional keyboard with a specialized one loaded with familiar financial terms. The Bloomberg terminal was easily accessible and a timesaver as the financial terms already in a trader’s vocabulary were hot-mapped onto the keyboard. The UX of the Bloomberg terminal is, to this day, the key to its success.Leveraging cloud infrastructure’s economies of scale and performance is the best way to scale online operations. The next logical question is which cloud provider to choose. Time and time again developers are choosing DigitalOcean. While other cloud providers may offer more feature sets, DigitalOcean is focused on offering the best possible UX for customers.To be fair, the major providers The software revolution is here and it’s disrupting nearly every industry on the planet. But software is simply the idea, which are commonplace within a given sector. It’s the UX that determines the winners from the losers. My little contribution to this axiom is the infrastructure, the underpinnings of the technical world that allow the Internet and its products to be delivered and consumed seamlessly. It’s the overall experience that the user feels a connection with, and when implemented correctly can vault a company from obscurity into the limelight in the blink of an eye.— David McKay is the Director of Network at Hacker (#w00w00), 

Let’s be honest, integrating UX in an agile development environment isn’t easy. Agile is very development driven and it challenges traditional design practices. Andy Hunt (one of the authors of The Agile manifesto) has recently even gone as far as saying Sure, you could think how hard can it be, I will just create two tracks and have designers and researchers work While “Water-Scrum-fall” or the one-sprint-ahead method might be right for some organizations at a specific stage in their evolution, it’s more often than not merely an in between phase when coming from a more traditional way of working (In the initial stages of adoption people often feel as if they’re lost in the woods, trying to figure out what to do next and where to go. On their journey they learn, the situation stabilizes and in time there’s going to be someone who will wonder whether things could be better. At this point the status quo is questioned and someone will recognize that those separate design/develop tracks come with a bunch of disadvantages.(source: Lean UX is user experience at its best, because at its core is the importance of learning through trial and error by having an iterative approach in place where your most important stakeholders validate the assumptions you have made: This is why it’s so important for UX Designers to be part of the same scrum team. When knowledge sharing and an exchange of ideas is facilitated, the UX Designer is able to give developers insight in the mental state of the users and the problems that need be solved for them. A shared understanding will emerge across team members and as a result developers will be able to shift their focus from purely getting things to done, to actually enabling the user and solve his problems when completing a story.I can recommend this article if you want to know more about the For UX to effectively work in the same team as developers (and testers!) we need to have some basic ground rules:Go forth, include UX and when sprinting, work on the current sprint while If you want to learn more about how UX Principles can help guide your development process, please read my previous article: UX Architect @ Intelworks  evangelist of user centered design.a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

I have recently completed one year as a UX designer at Cognizant Technology Solutions, Kolkata. Before that I completed my engineering in Information Technology stream from BIT Mesra. I thought of sharing my experience in order to help all those freshers who are skeptical about this domain.One year back when I was given an option to choose UX designing as my domain, I was really confused as I always thought of myself doing some technical stuffs like coding or networking. After an in-depth research and consulting some experienced professionals, I was convinced to select UX as a carrier option.I got to learn lots of stuffs over the year and now I can say that my viewpoint about the world has changed. I don’t see things in a way I used to. So, here are some important questions and their answers.UX stands for “User Experience” and the overall phenomenon to enhance that experience comes under UX designing.To understand it in a better way, let me ask you few simple questions:So, basically its a task of UX designer to put himself in the users’ shoes and design a product that is not only usable but also pleasant. UX life-cycle includes User Research, Stakeholder Interviews, Competitive Analysis, Personas, Information Architecture, Wire Framing, Prototyping and Usability Testing.This was the exact question I used to ask me before joining this field and today I can give you enough reasons why UX is better than other technical fields.Frankly speaking, an year ago I was not even able to draw a bird, but it never came as a hurdle. if you are able to understand the users’ problem, can create some ideas to solve it and can present those ideas, no one can stop you being successful in this field. If you have a creative mind, sooner or later you will learn all those skills.The task of a user experience designer revolves around:Remember,UX Designer @ Cognizant Technology Solutions

I recently had the pleasure of hearing UX-based thought process can help designers, marketers, sales people, and users interact with the new generation of devices. If a new disruptive technology hits the market, we learn from the mistakes of devices-past.I believe the future There is plenty of healthy (and unhealthy) debate about the future of wearables. I believe we are past the peak and valley of the hype curve (We can get over the giddiness of making pedometers in every color, shape, and price-point, and really start to design products that work for and with us. As a UX and product designer, my question is this: how do we design those products as the paradigms of design are shifting so rapidly? The obvious answer uses sound UX design principles!We have heard a lot about the supposed downfall of Google Glass. In reality, the implementation of Glass has now been pivoted to focus on workplace integration. Workplace-focused wearables present a particularly difficult UX challenge. Should the device change the way a worker works or should it be used for tracking, learning, and teaching? In the case of It may be too early to tell if the iWatch really is going to change everything. What does seem to be obvious is that the line between “wearables” and everything else is going to blur. I don’t think this needs to occur with smaller, higher resolution screens. Companies such as Fitbit and Misfit are paying close attention to the consistency of user experience when it comes to their wearable products.Designers at both companies spoke constantly about the UX of the physical design; the weight, feel, and interaction of the device. Both Misfit and Fitbit are designing the minimal amount of screen required on their devices. Harnessing massive amounts of data to subtly inform the user of their behavior is incredibly powerful. Just because we Products like All customer touchpoints are important to the overall user experience. In the integrated tech world, designers and users must be able to plug and play. A lot of software products are beginning to integrate with third party physical sensors. Whether that is a third party integration or a “necessary-evil” sensor, some products rely almost exclusively on the data they receive externally. Designers at So how does Strava integrate all of this into a cohesive experience? They are data-source agnostic. Since their influence is often constrained on other devices, Strava utilizes the data to create their experience. They don’t reinvent Google Glass or the iWatch, but they optimize for the functionality that is there.By focusing on the needs and behaviors of our users we can identify real needs before we decide what tool to fix them with. Whether we are designing, marketing, selling, or buying these new devices, it is important that we think of them in context of the human user. Attaching increasingly high resolution screens to everyday items does not constitute revolutionary design, nor does it represent good UX design.A quantitative designer focusing on strategy, innovation, and the future. 

Once upon a time there was Photoshop, and designers used Photoshop to create explorations for user interfaces. These explorations turned into mockups, usually a flat image that would appear in a document, sometimes with lots of text explaining what is supposed to happen on the screen. Developers would often cringe every time one of these design specifications was delivered. As rich UI experiences evolved, it became more challenging to explain such things as interaction and motion through documentation in this format. Designers have evolved their skill sets to meet this need. They’ve simplified their design process by leveraging tools that make storytelling easier. It was always true that interacting with an interface is just as important as showing it. Fortunately, there are some exciting new ways to do this. No longer do we have to rely on flat design specifications.We are in a new era of design where creatives can build rich experiences with less effort than was previously required to complete static deliverables. There has been an explosion of new tools on the scene that challenge a traditional approach to defining UX design. These tools allow for the validation of design, relying less on high fidelity while focusing more on interaction and flow. The new tools also fit into a process allowing designers more ownership of the end to end UX process.It could be said that a catalyst for these new tools was Lean UX — the process of quickly framing your ideas and solving fundamental design challenges without relying on style and pixel perfection. Even if you are not sold on Lean UX, you may have decided that you want a quick and easy way to explore concepts and interaction. You’re in luck. The number of applications available for UX prototyping is staggering. The real challenge will be finding one that is best suited for you.2014 might have marked what will be known as the post-Photoshop era — a new age where designers are no longer relying so much on tools that have been the cornerstone for design delivery. This is a time when you can easily access lightweight cloud-connected software to solve both simple and complex problems. Because the options for either web-based or standalone desktop software are so abundant, I’ll summarize below the more popular tools available in these two categories.The evolution of front-end technologies and the popularity of cloud software in recent years has prompted a move from stand-alone applications to web-based tools. Web tools can be easily delivered and supported on demand, and are ideal for sharing and viewing prototypes through the browser.Probably one of the easiest applications to learn. Marvel lets you link screens together by defining hotspots. Transitions, gestures and animations can be added to create a realistic interaction experience. Prototypes are shared and viewed via a URL that is generated when your project is published. There are also iOS and Android apps available for managing projects on and offline. Marvel doesn’t contain any drawing tools or a UI library, so it requires that designs be completed in another tool such as Sketch or Photoshop. Marvel has integrated with Dropbox to allow for synchronization of the image files used in your prototypes. There is also a Marvel Sketch plug-in which allows for sending artboards directly to Marvel projects from within Sketch. Marvel’s big value is in its simplicity. Provided you have already designed your screens, plan to be up and running with Marvel in a matter of minutes.One of the most popular of the new prototyping tools. Like Marvel, it contains no drawing or image creation tools, which allows for a smaller learning curve. Instead, InVision provides a robust set of cloud storage features, plug-ins, skins, transitions and gestures to support prototyping needs. Synchronization of files through Dropbox is supported, or you can use their own Takes things a bit further by introducing a component library which provides multiple pre-built UI elements for a number of device platforms. Styling, interactions, gestures and transitions can be applied to simulate an experience. UI elements can adapt to the resolution of whichever device you are designing for. You can also apply these properties to your own visual assets that you add to the project. Screens can be created from within the Proto.io editor interface, and multiple states can be created for these screens. Projects are managed from a dashboard interface that supports a team workflow where various roles may be assigned. A Dropbox integration allows image assets to be easily added and managed. All these powerful features make Proto.io a bit more of a challenge to learn. Plan on spending some time getting used to the conventions used throughout the authoring environment.Provides an extremely lightweight web-based prototyping environment and contains a UI component library that can be used to design screens for a number of devices. Properties, interactions and states can be applied to these components. Support for gestures and animation is quite robust, and versions of screens can be made responsive by defining breakpoints. Photoshop and Sketch plug-ins make adding design assets easy. UXPin has put a lot of focus on team workflow and collaboration through features such as screen-sharing and VOIP. Previewing and sharing prototypes is made easy from within the authoring environment. There is even an SMS feature that allows you to send a link to the prototype via a text message. Another stand out feature from UXPin is the ability to conduct user testing with prototypes using built-in video conferencing software. Having an understanding of vector drawing tools like Illustrator will help but if you wish to leverage the full power of UXPin, plan on spending some time getting comfortable with some conventions that you might not be familiar with.For years UX design prototyping has involved stand-alone desktop applications that offer a robust set of drawing and editing features. These applications allow designers to work outside of other design programs such as Photoshop or Illustrator if they wish, and instead build rich interactions without having to write HTML code. A major benefit here is that these applications involve a one-time cost as opposed to the ongoing subscription needed for the web-based offerings previously mentioned. Also, copying and pasting work from your existing design applications makes getting assets into your prototypes very easy.An elegant design application coupled with powerful interaction tools. Like many of the tools mentioned here, it will feel familiar to those who are already acquainted with Photoshop and Illustrator. Dynamic, data-driven content can be applied to designs. Other features include synchronization with Photoshop, integration with user testing tools and services, mobile gestures, transitions, mobile application viewers for iOS and Android, support for conditional logic and team workflow. JustInMind is very much a full-featured prototyping environment that will require a time commitment if you wish to get the most from it.Very early on the scene and continues to be a dominant force in the space. A complete set of drawing and editing tools are available and you get a decent set of UI components out of the box. Adaptive views cater to those who are interested in building responsive prototypes. Axure’s user community is very large. Between their community forums and training resources, you’ll find countless examples and solutions that can be downloaded and added to your prototypes, along with UI components tailored for many devices. Axure has a robust system that can be leveraged to produce rich examples of interaction using dynamic data. A set of canned conditional cases are available for a number of interactions but if you’re comfortable with a little scripting you can construct your own. The deeper you go with Axure the more you’ll unlock powerful capabilities, but keeping things simple is very possible as well. Group workflow, version control, and team collaboration features are available in the Pro version. Publishing and hosting prototypes can be done through Axure Share. HTML can be generated from prototypes and saved locally as well.This is by no means a comprehensive list but these tools are getting some traction from the design community today. When evaluating these tools it’s important to think about project objectives, team size, workflow, technical understanding, and support.All of the tools mentioned here are free to try. For further reading on these and other tools, Emily Schwartzman at Cooper has put together some The problem is that most designers aren’t comfortable writing HTML and CSS code. Further, simulating dynamic data, conditional states, and rich animations requires a deeper knowledge of front-end technologies than what most creatives understand. In most cases, these new prototyping solutions allow us to build and iterate on a functional simulation in a fraction of the time that it would take to write the code. When considering an end-to-end design process, these prototyping solutions can be useful in the validation of design-thinking earlier in the product lifecycle, something that might otherwise go unchecked.All of the tools mentioned here can be used to conduct testing. Worthy of note, UXPin has introduced a built-in user testing solution. Also of note, JustInMind integrates with third party testing services such as The UX prototyping space is booming. Dozens of solutions are now available for a practice that was done largely with paper and flat deliverables not that long ago. Designers can now start building experiences earlier in a product’s lifecycle, and get real results around decisions through testing these prototypes. Aspects of the user experience that used to be difficult to communicate can now be simulated in a meaningful way. Further, these tools help bridge the gap between designers and developers, allowing for ideas to be communicated and realized.A version of this article ran in We are a product design firm. We love design – for the technology, for the simple joy of craft, and ultimately for the experiences we create.

I see quite a few posts on Facebook and LinkedIn asking for advice on what degree to pursue to become a User Experience (UX) professional. While getting a degree is a good way to break into the UX field, here are some resources that might be useful to get started and be successful in the field without a degree.Before you learn the skills, it is important to understand the design process and principles. Here are some FREE online courses that will teach you these.An online course taught by Don Norman, one of the pioneers of design. This course teaches the basic “must know” design principles. An online course taught my Scott Klemmer, a Professor at University of California, San Diego who was part of the HCI group at Stanford University. This is a great course to give you a complete overview of the design process. You may also choose to do a project as part of the course.An important part of design is the process that you use. A typical process would look like this.In reality it might not be such a linear process and would vary depending on what you are designing, the organization, the users and other constraints. You do not have to master all of these. Focus on your strengths and work towards your goals as a designer.This is not as complicated as it sounds. Pick any problem that you want to solve or a product you want to create. How would you understand what users need? Go ask them! Create a set of questions to ask any of your friends or even strangers, maybe in a coffee shop. You may ask any question to inform what you will later be designing, such as, how do they handle the problem currently? What are some of the challenges? What might be helpful for them? Document their responses and you have your requirements to design.In the industry, user research is a vast field. Some companies employ specialists for this purpose. Common activities that they carry out are interviews, participant observations, surveys and data analysis which are out of the scope of this article.Once you know what your users need, start thinking or brainstorming on how you would solve the need or problem. A good way to start is by asking questions. What does the user want to achieve? What are some existing applications or services that attempt to solve the problem? What is successful or unsuccessful in these applications? List down all the ideas you can think of.Pencil and paper — Find the best designers out there and you will notice them extensively using a pencil and paper to sketch out concepts and ideas. By no means are you required to be artistic. Most of your work would only require you to draw lines and rectangles. Don’t bother about crooked lines.The point of sketching is to come up with as many sketches as you can to evaluate multiple options and narrow down on the best solutions. Some people call this “quick and dirty prototyping” or “rapid prototyping”. Here is an example of one of my own sketches for a mobile application I was designing. As you can see, it doesn’t have to be neat, at all.Interaction Design is the method of designing the way in which your user would interact with your system or application. This could be designing screens for a mobile app or a website. Once you’ve sketched your ideas, the next step in the process is to convert your best ideas from your sketches into wireframes. A wireframe is an outline or skeletal representation of the application screens. For example, the wireframe of Facebook looks like this.There are plenty of tools that allow you to do this. You just need to drag and drop different components on the screen to create your designs. The following tools are most widely used. All of these have resources online and there is plenty of help available online. The best way to learn is to actually try them out.1. 2. 3. Pick one and learn it well over time.Here is where you might have some trouble, as there is no free software to recommend.1. 2. 3. Here is an example of an application I designed using Sketch. It’s very simple to learn and might be worth purchasing if you’re really into visual design.This sounds like a very technical term but what you’re going to be doing is simply testing your designs with the help of your users. The goal is to observe people using your application and get feedback about the pain points associated with your design and make iterations. There are more advanced ways of doing this but testing your product with the help of your friends is a good start. Make them use your product and simply observe where they get stuck, what’s confusing or unexpected for them. Note that you do not have to code your application before testing. Take print outs of your designs and that is what you will use to test. The online courses listed above will teach you how to do this.Once you test your designs on users, make sure to modify your designs to incorporate the pain points you identified during your usability test. It is very difficult to get the design right the first time and iteration is a key ingredient in the design process. I’ll put it this way. If you don’t know the principle of iteration, you will not be hired. It’s that important.If you have prior programming knowledge, learning front-end development might be a great way to break into the field. Learning HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and Bootstrap is a great way to begin.1. 2. There are countless books out there but the ones I would highly recommend areYou will notice that different people are good at different things, such as graphic design, interaction design, fine arts, photography etc. It is important to not get intimidated by this and stick to your strengths. They too were at some point where we are right now.A mentor need not be someone who has vast experience. You just need someone to discuss about your ideas and thought process. Online platforms listed above are great ways to connect with people. Before approaching people, be clear on why you would like them to mentor you. Pick someone whom you think has a good match of interests and whom you think can point you in the right direction when required.A portfolio is a website where you can share your projects. The purpose of this is to showcase your work so that other people can learn about your work. You would use this to apply for a job if you’re looking for one. The best way to build your skills and gain experience is by working on projects. Here are some exercises to help you get started.1. 2. 3. Most importantly, you will be able to internalize the principles of design thinking. You will be able to create well designed products to share on your portfolio.If you’re just getting started, there are a lot of different areas to explore. If you have started connecting with the design crowd, you would automatically discover where to go. Here are some interesting articles you can read.Designers have been magnanimous in the online community. Once you start learning, try to share your knowledge and offer your help to the community as well. You never know whom it might be useful for.If you’ve read this article, feel free to leave a response to “what does design mean to you?”. Make sure you share your work with me on Twitter Aravind Ravi is a User Experience Designer who shares thought provoking ideas on how to make designs more thoughtful, meaningful and desirable.a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

Here are some things clients would rather not know about the work of a UX designer, with a positive twist of courseYou might be a manufacturer of components for ship engines or a reseller of complex accounting software. The reality is that I don’t understand what you do as well as you do. Therefore I’m gonna ask you A LOT of questions about it. They might seem pretty basic to you at the beginning but I need to know about things like how your audience is broken down, what people say to your support centre etc. I often see clients that are so focussed to the day to day operation of what they do that they loose sight of these things. Speaking to a UXer is a good refresher course. Remember, we are objective and are motivated by what’s best for your user and by continuing to make your business successful.It’s not uncommon to work on different projects that share common traits. For example, if I’ve recently designed an ecommerce website and another such project comes along, I might use that experience as an influence on my approach (if appropriate for the project requirements and brief). You wouldn’t expect Ford to throw out everything they know about car design when planning the next Mustang now would you? Plus the client gets the benefit of knowing what worked and didn’t work previously. This is how the design industry evolves and improves with time. It’s part of the job.As much as I’ll look at my own back catalogue of work, I will search for design patterns created by other designers across the world. This is done to save time and to also align my work with common conventions for things like login or registration for example. I don’t want to design something that is unique but entirely unfathomable. After all, users spend most of their time on sites that are not yours. I’ll keep up to date with the latest learning and adapt my view from there, customizing it to the project at hand. It’s more about inspiration than out and out plagiarism.It’s often the case that research is not provided for in the project, sometimes because of timescales or budget. The reality is that user research can be conducted cheaply and effectively with methodologies such as guerrilla user testing. If research is a not formally scheduled, I’m still gonna take my draft designs to someone unconnected with the project and ask them for feedback. Typically someone in another part of my building or neighboring office. I’ll blur out your business name or logo and make sure confidentiality is maintained. I’ll do this unless it is specifically prohibited by you. Ultimately, it’s in your own interests and that of your eventual user. Imagine having happier customers and less calls to your support centre?Yea I said it. It’s long been thought that the less clicks a user can take to their destination the better. However, I believe that as long as the user knows where they are in the scheme of things and is satisfied about what they are doing, then the precise amount of clicks does not really matter. There is a limit of course and rest assured UXers intuitively try and keep things as efficient as possible.Designers! Are there any other confessions you’d like to share? Let us know.Original Article appeared on UXswitch —If you want to move on up in your UX career, pop in over to UXswitch is about putting the Experience in to finding a UX job. Your wish list is matched with only the best UX recruiters  employers. For UXers, by UXers

Узнав, что лучше делать счастливыми, На самом деле, вы уже испытываете на себе влияние UXD читая данную статью, результатом чего будет UX (полученный опыт-user expereince)Далее немного информации про UXD для тех, кому одного определения — не хватило…Каждый раз разрабатывая продукт, сервис или услугу, в хороших компаниях собираются хорошие люди начав с Конкретного списка техник и инструментов по UXD найти будет трудно, суть в том, что для каждого сервиса, продукта, сайта, мобильного приложения и пр. свой уникальный список.Конечный результат не зависит напрямую от денежных вливаний. Даже при небольших затратах, можно сделать качественный UXD в результате чего вы у вас будет хороший UX.Вы можете оценить результат UXD в ресторане: начиная с расположения за столиком и заканчивая чаевыми, которые будут зависеть от многих факторов: расположение места, как вас встретили, какова была атмосфера, интерьер, музыка (была ли), как оформлено меню, какова подача блюда и вкусно ли вам было прежде всего?Если вы вроде бы пришли попить кофе, но уходя, вы знаете, что вернетесь снова и приведете друзей — команда Теперь можно переходить к следующей статье, в которой я расскажу на А пока статья готовится, вы можете узнать UI/UX designerРазговоры про дизайн и всё, что с ним связано. По-русски.

As user experience professionals we face two significant challenges. Getting our colleagues to think about the needs of users and ensuring they don’t forget about them.There are many techniques for achieving these goals. But one of the more popular ones seems to be empathy maps. They are faster to create than a An empathy map is a collaborative tool that teams can use to better understand their customers. It consists of an image of the customer surrounded by six sections. These sections are:The group draws an outline of an empathy map on a large sheet of paper. The team then works together to complete each section using their knowledge of the user and any data collected.Although I have been using empathy maps for sometime I confess I have found them frustrating.For a start I found workshop attendees struggled with some of the sections. There was often overlap between what our users sees and hears. Also attendees would struggle to express what the user gains. In essence, they were perfect for general customer segmentation. But they were too generic for a workshop focused on user experience design.The second problem related to long term impact. Attendees would go away with a better understanding of the user. But this understanding didn’t seem to stick or influenced the wider organisation.In the end I started adapting the empathy map for my specific needs. For a start I changed the segments. Instead I went with:The result was that attendees found it much simpler to complete in the context of my work. Also the outcome was much more useful in informing future deliverables.I was also keen that the benefits of the empathy mapping didn’t end with the workshop. Inspired by Don’t misunderstand me. I am not suggesting my approach to empathy mapping is better than the original. My message here is that we need to adapt these tools to our own needs. We have so many tools from personas to customer journey maps. But we tend to blindly use them. We should be adapting them for our circumstances and maybe in the process evolving their quality over time.A dad, blogger, author, speaker, christian, husband, entrepreneur, boss, geek, optimist, web designer, digital strategist and podcaster.

Recently, A UX unicorn is someone who has much more that a single specialty. For example, someone who can interact with clients, create wireframes, conduct user research, code CSS3 and jQuery, understand marketing, paint like Picasso and sing like Pavarotti. Quite a tall order one might say. The requirement is sometimes driven by the demand to get things done within tight budgets. Other times, it’s the result of the employer not completely understanding the nuances of design or the process that goes along with it.Neeman and Rench are enjoying long and successful careers in UX. Both declare that they’ve ended up as accidental UX unicorns.There is a lot to be said to filling the gaps when they arise. The downsizing of a team might be an opportunity for you to learn something new, to transition and gain skills that might lead to another related sphere of occupation. Over at One doesn’t need to wait for such events, however. Such is the demand for UXers, it is now possible for a designer to switch between client side and agency side, startup and corporate environments, and between freelance and permanent work. In each case, the opportunity to diversify and pick up new talents is enhanced, contributing to creating a more rounded, robust design professional.Rench emphasizes the importance of lifelong learning on the path to becoming a unicorn. So how does one expand their skillset in the face of a crushing personal and work schedule?Neeman suggests another more personalized strategy to expand your knowledge base;Fancy moving on and expanding your skillset? Join Original Article: UXswitch is about putting the Experience in to finding a UX job. Your wish list is matched with only the best UX recruiters  employers. For UXers, by UXersUnlike the deadly ninjas that infiltrate the darkness of your dreams, we bring you great articles about user experience, web design, and technology!

Designing for We recently hosted a webinar with Uday Gajendar, Principal Designer at Peel and previously of Oracle and Citrix, on how craft — the intentional, thoughtful Watch the full recording below, or read on for our short recap.Everyone has their own definition of craft, but there are some common threads. The notion of craft is dependent on similar ideas of diligence, pride, beauty — it calls to mind the idea of carefully hand-shaping a raw material.So, what is craft in a digital medium, as it relates to designing apps, services, and products? On one hand, there are highly-polished and finalized technological objects, like elegant wearables hanging off your wrists or electric sedans whizzing down the highway.But for the digital medium, we must move away from seeing craft as beautiful, final objects and toward the idea that It’s not to say that beauty or precise care in design isn’t important. Let’s be clear: no one wants to buy or use something that’s malformed or confusing. It’s simply that craft can go beyond that.Designing enterprise UX can take you down a difficult, frustrating path. The wickedness of craft in enterprise UX comes from dealing with opinionated, cynical stakeholders. Within the swirling mess of constraints and contingencies, it’s easy to lose sight of the focus to instill a sense of craft in what we make.No single designer can resolve these issues on their own. It takes engagement with difficult folks.But These tangible artifacts become tools to help designers achieve alignment, promote discourse, and get everyone out of the energy-sapping “analysis paralysis” mode.Uday told 3 short stories about how he’s used craft as a facilitative anchor throughout his career. We’re going to recap the first. For the other 2, make sure to watch the recording above!When Uday was a junior designer in 2000 at Oracle, a GM challenged him to clean up a messy e-business web-based application. Wanting to do more than clean up the interface, he took a reactive approach. He mapped out the entire application UI architecture, using a massive annotated diagram. He identified key areas of improvement and suggested other areas that needed an update.Then, he printed it out — all 7 feet of paper — and took it to his GM. Faced with the monstrosity of the artifact, the GM realized that it wasn’t a small project of a few screens. Because he saw the artifact, the GM was able to take a broader, strategic view of the core problem. It wasn’t just cleaning up the interface, it was really trying to re-architect the content, functionality, and overall structure of the product.It forced him to improve resource allocation in the timeframe. It didn’t involve a few designers in a few weeks — it involved assigning a team and taking the entire quarter.Artifacts can force clarity of the complexities of the wicked problem space.Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

I have been UX designer for a few years now and I have come to a realisation that this role doesn’t exist. UX design exists but UX designers don’t.UX design emerged as a need to In the past designing software was the challenge but now it is standard. To stand out today, companies need to be designing software for the user. We now Here is a small list of what an user experience designer is expected to do: user research, interviews, usability testing, information architecture, visual design and interaction design. To be an expert in each of those areas would require much time in each area to be proficient.With all of the expected tasks, no wonder some job applications for UX designers also include the word “unicorns” and “ninja”. Both are hard to find.UX designers are all different because they come with different backgrounds. Some are better visual designers, better coders, better system analysts or better strategists. This expectation of knowing broad range of topics but being a specialist in one is known as a T-Shape designer. This means that each of us has our own special skill combination.This means that one UX designer who did well in one scenario might be unfit for another due to the skill mismatch. It is hard to capture what a UX designer is.Some say we are the ones in the team who put the user first in our designs but when we design don’t do the actual visuals or code things up. Are we just a bunch of designers who were not technical enough to be developers or not creative enough to be designers?The world does not exist in grey boxes. It is in colour, it moves. A design that may work well in grey boxes as a concept but may fall apart when the visual design does not work. The design can fall apart when implemented and the experience does not behave as desired. Is it better to describe an interaction in words or as a prototype?People think that having a UX designers means that they can solve it all. The biggest disservice to the title of “UX designer” is that some designers with this title think they can do it all, even when they can’t. It is worst when they can’t and try push their ideas as gospel because they are the UX designer.Shouldn’t all of these areas be the responsibility of the whole team rather one single individual?I feel that the way UX designer works overlaps with what a business analyst, information architect, product manager, user researcher, visual designer or interaction designer may do. If your team has all of these roles filled, then you don’t need a UX designer.If you still want to call yourself a UX designer, it is time to UX designers that I have worked with are creative, highly logical and systematic thinkers but we need to ask ourselves, What are you good at? What are you not good at?Stop presenting designs with lines like “I think” or “I feel” without with evidence or data to back it up.If you say you focus on the user, then do it. Doing user research is a real thing. Go out and talk to users. Go out and get data. Without it you are just pretending to know. Empower members of the team to make the right decisions by giving them the right motives. Share the results in a way that each person on the team can understand. Long reports and documents mean nothing if no one reads them.There is a need for teams understand their users. User research is fundamental for product managers to set the direction for the right product. UX designers can help by facilitating methods and activities that get the team thinking about the user better. Is design thinking different than normal thinking?Whenever we disappear to go sketch without getting people involved, we are doing it wrong. Whenever we design something without caring how it will be implemented, we are doing it wrong. We should be facilitators rather than dictators.How can you add value by to your team with actionable information about the user today?In a few years time, I don’t think the role of UX designer will exist. My hope is that all members of a team will be contributing to improving the experience for users.What about Whatever it is, I know I will be involved with making useful products for real users.A Canadian in London. UX designer by day. Trying to live life to the fullest otherwise.

As a UX designer I believe that when Unfortunately sometimes in business we have budget, time or resource constraints that often impact the approach you can take when designing for Android. More often than not the words “let’s just port the iPhone design” is uttered by the powers that be and so you are left with an iOS design on Android, oh, just without the back button.Android had a history of being harder to develop and typically taking longer to create than iOS. This combined with its fragmented beginnings, endless screen sizes and inconsistent design patterns has contributed to it being thought of as a “bolt on app” to a brand rather than a focused product itself.With Google releasing This Let’s start by taking wireframes for an iOS photo sharing app. In this app you can simply take photos, follow friends and store images in private folders. As we move through the steps I will tweak the wires to reflect the particular suggestion which should leave us with a strong Android offering.App bars are used to provide consistent navigation across the app but also to surface important contextual actions or functionality.The app bar typically is split into two sets of functionality, on the left you find the navigation which allows users to access specific sections of your app, as well as the title which reflects contextual information of the screen you are currently on. This could be app name, page name or the filter applied to the page.A menu is used to neatly surface extra secondary functionality as an overlap of the app bar.This could simply be an overflow menu of items such as help, settings, logout, or functionality to manipulate or use the content being displayed such as a filter or favourites.Side navigations are a popular element in iOS app design and usually display the main sections of the app and global information such as profile information.Where iOS navigations generally push the body content off screen, Android navigations favour an overlay effect.The drawer would appear in front of the app bar, focusing the user to concentrate on its functionality rather than the page content. On earlier versions of the platform, the drawer indicator icon is usually a skinny version of a hamburger menu icon, that sits flush to the left hand side with the app icon.In Material design the drawer indicator icon is closer to what you might find in iOS, a simple hamburger menu icon evenly spaced from the left hand side.View controls are essentially filters that you can apply to alter the content that is currently being displayed on the screen.A spinner provides a quick way to select one value from a set. If you use it within an action bar it can be useful to change the view in your app but not necessarily a frequent occurrence. Spinners help the user to see all the options at once, where as a tab can take up less space within the screen.Fixed tabs display all items together but are only beneficial with a few categories and short titles, whereas scrolling tabs allow you to have more items but might require some more exploration form the user.When choosing between spinners and tabs, it comes down to a question of space and content.These bars display extra functionality that is specific to data that has been selected within the screen. Usually triggered by a long press, you can easily add this functionality into areas of the app where you might want the user to access more options to manipulate the content.The contextual action bar will actually sit over the app bar temporarily until you complete your task, this saves on screen real estate and helps you to focus on the action you are completing. In iOS you would typically see this being done via a left swipe motion on a piece of data, particular seen in the Mail app, where you swipe left to display extra functions such as delete, flag and more on an email item.But wait there’s more.As a gift, on my first ever article, I thought I’d explore a little bit of the visual principles that are seen in Android design.The launcher icon is the first visual touch point for your app within the Android environment. iOS traditionally is restricted to a rounded cornered square where as in Android you are encouraged to create a distinctly unique silhouette.Where iOS celebrates apps with unique experiences, Material design has been created to give structure and organisation across the variety of apps to produce a unified experience.Android relies on traditional type tools such as scale, rhythm, alignment which is why they developed With iOS the brand is usually the core to the design of the app which helps to create the unique experiences. Android guides suggest that brand colours should be used as accents to the design to highlight key functions within the UX and layout.Here we have it. Our finished Android focused app. There is a lot more that we could do to restructure the app to make it more inline with the platform but for the purpose of working against constraints such as time, resource or budget, hopefully this is enough to get you on your way: you can take some of these suggestions and directly apply them to your designs.As a helpful start, I have provided the graphic resources that were created specifically for this post.Download them Senior UX Designer at 

Text, text, and more text. With maybe some bullets. Or a lot of bullets. That just about summarizes your average job post. Without even such basic enhancements as links, text formatting, and images, few job posts do their job: inform job seekers about the role, and get them excited about applying.Here’s Take the following job description for a senior UX role — the one on the left. The listing has at least 3 big problems from the job seeker’s perspective:As believers in the user-centered design process, we got started by gathering insights on and from our users, then created prototypes and tested them with real users.Since UXswitch gives interface designers and user researchers a career site of their own, anything we created for this design-sensitive audience needed to be useful, usable, and engaging. Designing for mobile first made sense, since we believe Here’s what our process looked like:This testing proved vital as it helped us develop a more informed sense of the hierarchy of the job description. This mental model informed our presentation of the different kinds of information, from job location to the desired candidate attributes.We launched the “Humanized Job Description” in April 2015. Though we’ll keep refining over the coming months, we believe we’ve succeeded in our primary objective: to give the job seeker an excellent impression of a role at a glance.We achieved this by focusing on the most relevant information and by providing clever techniques to reduce or replace text. These include:The new design saves both candidates and employers time, money and effort. It also helps employers stand out from the crowd and attract the right candidates. Check out live examples for Legacy methods of presenting info can seem set in stone, but Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

The short answer is “yes”, but it is not as straight forward as that; not all web designers need to be UX designers or UI designers, but they should all have some sort of basic UX understanding since their designs play a significant part in how users experience a product or service.When a user visits a website or app, the first thing that they experience is the design. Design plays a huge part in shaping the user experience while supporting the brand’s voice and character.While platform, app and product companies most always hire a UI Designer, web designers usually design websites. Websites, however, are not that different from an app interfaces: there is a menu that guides the user through the content and, ideally, through a funnel; the user needs to be able to understand where the brand wants them to go with an easy to follow intuitive flow.Without implementing at least basic user experience elements in website design, companies may end up with a lovely looking website; but zero conversions, high bounce rates, and disgruntled visitors.Blogs and news sites are talking about the “death of web design”, claiming that web design and web designers are a part of the past. The idea behind this trendy topic is that web designers can no longer be Today, more and more marketers and companies are beginning to realize the importance of investing in creating a great user experience for their audiences throughout the entire customer lifecycle. Digital walkthroughs are added, support channels are optimized, and content is written with the user in mind. This has a direct affect on all stages of the customer lifecycle.When putting an emphasis on user experience throughout the acquisition channels, conversion rates instantly increase. This is done by making the conversion funnel from ads, blogs, or social posts, to a landing page, easy to understand and visually pleasing to the user.Users that need to spend time finding the next step in the funnel will move on to a competitor. While content plays a huge part of the conversion cycle, web design is the first impression the user gets and they need to instantly know where the company wants them to go in order to move forward.Customer support is often neglected, or seen as something that requires less investment. It is not something web designers usually think about, but they should.Once a customer purchases or subscribes, it is important to provide them with the best possible service and support in order to lower support expenses and increase customer satisfaction. One of the ways a lot of companies get this done is by creating a support interface or website for their existing clients. The design of this site needs to be easily understandable, it needs to take into consideration the audience demographic, and it needs to help them get to the information they need easily without having to request human support via chat or phone.The last part of the customer lifecycle is user retention. It is all about getting the customer to continue paying for the company’s services or products. This relies completely on a user experience that promotes customer satisfaction and web design plays an important part throughout every step to help lead to this point.Today’s web designers need to think like user experience experts and create designs for their clients. It is easy to fall into the trap of creating something “pretty”, when in reality the purpose of the design is to enhance the audience’s experience. Steve Jobs said, “If the user is having a problem, it’s our problem”.Every web designer works a little differently. Many prefer discussing the clients’ needs, going over their existing visual branding language, and sending over one or two designs for approval. UX changes that process a little bit and adds a few more steps in-between.Here are a few things to consider: Discussing UX with the client is important. If the client is experienced in UX and there is a marketing team to work with, that makes things much easier. Otherwise, it is the web designer’s responsibility to discuss the importance of enhancing the user experience, understand what the client is looking for in the design and what the purpose of the website is (generate leads, provide information etc.), and what the brand language is.The most important information a designer needs in order to create a UX-oriented design is the audience. Don’t just ask what their age, gender, and income is. You need to know where they hang out, what they like to buy and do, and what appeals to them visually. Once the web designer has all of the information at hand, they can create a template or rough design of what they suggest, show it to the client and explain why this specific structure was chosen. It should support the goals discussed in the previous point with the user experience in mind.After the rough design is approved, that is the time to dive deeper into the design itself. Choose the colors and visual elements based on the brand language and what you know will appeal to the target audience. Make sure that the website is easy to navigate through by showing it to a few people who are not familiar with the brand and what it offers. Take the entire conversion funnel and customer lifecycle into account so that you create a design that is consistent for the user.User experience is not something you learn once. It is ever changing, intuitive, and involves a lot of trial and error with every new audience you encounter. However, it is important to understand that user experience is a part of everything a company does, or at least it should be. Every action taken should have the user experience in mind and it all starts with the design.Web designers that can offer user experience expertise and thinking in their design strategy are worth more to companies and are in higher demand.Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

Once in a while I’ll come across a service which I won’t sign up for, or will immediately cancel my account. This is almost always a dark UX pattern, and I’m here to convince you that we shouldn’t be using them as sales persons, as UX engineers, as designers, or as developers.So if this is a new concept for you, I’ll just go ahead and point you over to the The place where I see this type of pattern crop up the most is when it comes to collecting credit card information during an initial sign-up process. Recently I encountered a new service called This is a show-stopper for me, and It is probably obvious to everyone here that the decision to do this is a sales decision, albeit a short-term and small-minded one. Let’s break down what is actually happening in the mind of a user, versus what would happen if a user was only asked to input payment details after the functionality was a proven thing.Did you see what happened here? The signup process presupposes that the user doesn’t get to check what’s inside the packaging before paying for it.If the user isn’t happy, well screw too bad. Postbox does this right (I’m in no way affiliated with them, I just really love the software). They provide the user with a downloadable and unregistered preview version which gives you occasional and unobtrusive reminders that you have a limited trial. If you like the product and want to purchase, they redirect you to their payment mechanism to complete the sale.The main point here is two-fold:Like this article? Come read more at UI/UX and web designer from Tel Aviv, IsraelWe are a growing community of interested and curious designers, developers, sales professionals, and UX engineers. We are having conversations about Freelancing, Design, Modern Development Practices, Client Interaction, and Growing your Business.

這篇文章我們將詳細介紹転転 UX 設計團隊平常最喜歡的 UX 設計思考、使用者經驗設計、設計工具等網站。無論是產品經理、UX/ID設計師、視覺設計師們都適合閱讀。下面這些網站收錄介紹關於 UI 的設計方法、想法與建議以及如何建立有效的使用者界面。無論是軟體 App、移動應用或是網站，這裡的內容都值得 UX 設計師學習。UX 發展趨勢、UX 軟體與工具、使用者經驗討論等。下面的網站主要討論 UI 設計如：怎樣有效地創造 Sitemap、Flow chart、Wireframe、Prototype 等主題。分享設計相關的界面、資源 — 這個區塊應該是 UI 設計師喜愛且必收藏!TENTEN 是專注於 UX 設計與互聯網開發並具有全球視野的新創團隊。致力於成為台灣創業團隊的孵化器，提供資源/ 思考/ 經驗/ 技術於開發者社群

User Experience design is not a real thing.Okay, let’s back up. That’s obviously not true. Of course UX design is real. But what people (and brands) actually mean when they talk about UX design has become increasingly muddled, and that’s a bad thing. It’s bad for designers, and it’s bad for brands.Let’s be clear about one thing: All design is UX design. In some ways, there is something inherently problematic about separating “UX design” from other subsects of the design industry, because doing so implies that everything else is somehow We’ve all heard this, or some variation of it. But that’s because it’s true. A brand is only as good as its story. Period. And every employee — from the CEO to the sales force to the marketing team — is instrumental in shaping that story. Why, then, are graphic designers often thought of as simply tools for making something look nice?Throughout my career, I’ve designed for a lot of different types of brands, from behemoth international corporations to very small, scrappy startups. In working across the spectrum, I’ve noticed a common problem when it comes to the way many companies think about branding and design: there has often never been any real internal conversation about what “design” means for the brand. This isn’t about semantics; it’s about being smart. If you think of your brand design just in terms of what “looks nice,” then you will ultimately fail at selling the brand.On more than one occasion, I’ve been asked to create a piece of marketing collateral — perhaps an eBook, a case study, or even some internal sales document — and been told, “let’s keep it simple. The design of this isn’t as important as the words.” There are a couple things wrong with this line of thinking. Firstly, every asset, internal or external, that’s created for a company is a representation of the brand itself (whether we like it or not) and should therefore be considered an opportunity for an exercise in brand strategy. And secondly, it’s Only when brand leaders stop thinking of design as “what looks nice” and start thinking of Often, when a brand leader or marketer talks about “UX design,” what he or she really means is “digital architecture” (which is kind of ironic, because many of the designers I know who have the strongest understanding of UX got their start in print design). Sometimes a company will hire an outside “UX expert” to come in and critique their website or digital product. Some of these are legit professionals who have been trained in strategic thinking, and some of these are people who throw around jargon and absurd key phrases like, “more calls to action above the fold, and also SEO.” Of course, things like SEO and calls to action are actual important considerations, but let’s be clear: a website that opens up to a headline and subhead consisting of multiple lines of marketing-speak and three CTA buttons all on the top half of the homepage is That said, the emergence of UX design as an entity in and of itself is not a wholly bad thing. It has forced young designers to more thoroughly consider something they should have been considering all along, and it has forced experienced designers to more consciously stay current when it comes to modern ideas about strategy and technology. And I certainly don’t want to take anything away from the designers who have dedicated a great deal of time and energy to studying and honing their skills in UX. These are the designers who often have trained themselves to be better problem-solvers in and outside of work.There is also nothing wrong with a designer calling herself/himself a “UX designer.” In fact, in today’s job market, it can be both smart and financially beneficial to promote one’s self in that way if possible. But any designer who says, “I’m a graphic/visual designer, not a UX designer,” is doing us all a disservice, and probably has a fundamental misunderstanding about what it means to be a designer at all.It’s time to stop thinking of design as decorative visuals and start thinking of it as an investment in innovative thinking and strategic communication that creates value and a competitive advantage in the market. Good design tells stories, and no brand has ever succeeded without telling a compelling story. Good design keeps people engaged, and no brand has ever succeeded without building engagement and loyalty. Good design shapes brand experiences. And at the end of the day, the user experience is all that matters.Michael Ardan is a designer and art director living in New York City.a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

Most of the Enterprise application UX still Enterprises are fully aware of this and they are I attempted to formulate few In enterprise world Because of complex nature of There are various types of Interpreting Every time I see PPT where When Enterprise apps needs When these requirements are not correctly There is very thin line between Hacking is not By doing When new products needs same amount of hacking as existing products then they are not correctly answering When product design quality is better, company has to be able By observing these symptoms I can better understand how hard is to transfer large organisations into If they are not fading away, then even when Enterprises have to set clear and I am crafting great ideas into working products and striving for balance between Design, Product and Engineering #UX.Design stories from designing apps at large enterprise for large enterprises

What’s hot in UX this week:UX work happens in many different contexts, from very lean startups that employ Agile methodologies and embrace little documentation, to consulting engagements for third-party clients, all the way to large corporate or government environments with strict process and documentation requirements.What unites these very different work environments is the need for UX professionals to communicate design ideas, research findings, and the context of projects to a range of audiences. Though we often communicate our work in conversation with others, deliverables help us document work for discussion, presentation, implementation, and later reference.We recently ran a survey with 86 UX professionals, asking them about the deliverables they produce on a regular basis, and the audiences with whom they share them. Here are the results.via One. More. Tool. Floyd is a UX design tool for creating interactive animations  multiscreen app flows.Web designers have cared about web performance since the profession’s earliest days. When I started, we saved user bandwidth by employing GIF images that had the fewest possible colors — with no dithering, when possible, and by using actual web text instead of pictures of web text.Because of the service it provides, Stripe didn’t start as a mobile-first company, like many other startups these days. The core business is the payments API, allowing companies to get setup to accept payments within minutes. However, it was designed for larger screens and as such, is barely usable on mobile.The introduction of UX to a company’s workflow is often a straightforward process. There’s a common understanding that you will be delivering improvements to products that will enable better acceptance of those products in the market. Here are some tips on how to align UX with product management in your team.You don’t need a designer. You need a new way of thinking. Design is a hotter subject than ever before. Apple is the most successful company in history, fueled by design, and the subsequent “design thinking” philosophy.“In June 2012, while working at CNN.com, I was tasked with designing the user experience of election night. The next five months of my life would be dedicated to that single night — but success to me had nothing to do with who won. For the first time in history, I was going to design a responsive experience.”A curated list of courses from Product Design, Rapid Prototyping, Design of Everyday Things and non-tech topics related to design and business.UX is UX is UX — right? Not really. User Experience Designers (UXDs) working on Minimum Viable Product (MVP) builds have it rough. The thought process has to shift ever so slightly in MVP builds, and in such a way that it can disrupt your conception of what “good UX” really is.via Brought to you by your friends at Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

No matter if you are in a coffee break, stuck at work trying to solve a UI problem or just looking to delight your users with best-in-class UI patterns: here are some patterns, libraries and references for your delight.After Effects is a great tool that enables us to quickly visualize and test robust animation patterns throughout a web design. But how to incorporate it into a UX workflow?As a digital designer, it’s not always possible to be everything to everyone and wear all of the hats at the same time…Award-winning iOS apps from various categories with outstanding design and implementation.Low-contrast text may be trendy, but it is also illegible, undiscoverable, and inaccessible. Instead, consider more usable alternatives.It seems the feedback loop between science fiction and reality is accelerating with every new summer blockbuster.More than 130 screens for you to download, remix and create beautiful clickable prototypes super quickly.Your goal as a designer or a developer is to always try to find a way to create an environment which is easy for users. Consistency is the key which helps you to achieve that goal.via There’s so much noise going on in the User Experience world every week that we felt like people could benefit from some sort of filter. Share with your UX friends!Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

What’s hot in UX this week:Where do hands and fingers fall on the device? This question is the linchpin for every form factor this book examines, and the answer tells you how to design your layout for comfort and efficiency. Since we hold phones, phablets, tablets, and laptops very differently, it’s no surprise that each of these touchscreen variations has its own UI needs.Yet these devices also share many consistencies, especially in the crucial role of thumbs. Whether we’re tapping away at tiny phones or jumbo tablets, our thumbs do most of the walking. That fact helps us establish sturdy cross-device guidelines. This chapter looks at why the thumb is so important, and reveals fundamental “rules of thumb” based on how we grab screens of all sizes.via Figuring out your content layout is a tricky task on a mobile device. Desktop devices give you all the screen space to work with. But on mobile, you have limited screen space. Users can only view a small amount of content at a time before they need to scroll to view more.Whilst each player in a football team has their specific role, they’re not just constrained to that role. Every player can and most definitely should contribute above and beyond their role to help the team.Salesforce users work with forms day in and day out, whether they are salespeople, admins, or managers. Being able to seamlessly add, edit, and delete information is a key driver of productivity. Improving this experience is one of the UX team’s goals with the new Lightning Experience.A video tutorial on how to create user onboarding screens using a combination of Sketch App and Principle (for animations and interactions).While drop-downs may seem like a good way of housing content in web forms they actually cause a lot of issues. Find out how drop-down menus and select boxes can hurt the user experience and in some cases make your form unusable.One of the riskiest assumptions for any new product or feature is that customers actually want it. Although product leaders can propose numerous ‘lean’ methodologies to experiment inexpensively with new concepts before fully engineering them, anything short of launching a product or feature and monitoring its performance over time in the market is, by definition, not 100% accurate.A collection of beautiful, interesting, unexpected and delightful mobile interactions for your inspiration.via Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

First of all, check out our little new project: .So far in the run-up to Adobe’s annual event in Los Angeles, Adobe Max, the announcements have been evolutionary not revolutionary. But there’s one that promises to steal all the headlines this year, especially within the web design community, and that’s The tool “combines wireframing, visual design, prototyping, and previewing all in one,” explains Colene Chow, product marketing manager at Adobe for Creative Cloud UX products, in the post. “Comet is fast and fluid so it can scale with large and complex projects.”via One of the clearest signs of a competent UI designer is restraint. It’s about knowing the capabilities of your chosen platform and then not using them (until the perfect opportunity arises).When building a Minimum Viable Product (MVP) there are many competing factors, and with the pressure to release something demoable every sprint, features can get compromised in a way that requires rework later down the line.With so many device types and sizes and so many different ways to design websites for those devices, the user experience a designer creates is what determines overall success of the site and whether a user will return.Beautiful UI shots, for 100 days straight. Each day a new component, modal, button, shot or layout to inspire your next big project.“Define good design”. “How do you form relationships with stakeholders?”. A random generator of questions so you can prepare for your next job interview.People ask where the Web is going; it’s going nowhere. The Web was a brilliant first shot at making the Internet usable, but it backed the wrong horse. It chose space over time.“Last September, I went to Chicago for a conference. On the third day of the conference, I slipped away to my friend Max’s apartment on a mission. The mission was to gather together a lot of very smart people who don’t work in news — and ask them to design a new news homepage.”via Brought to you by your friends at Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

I used to think it was just me, but it turns out tons of UX pros suffer from the same affliction: we can’t help mentally redesigning everything around us.And you know what? It’s not really an affliction, it’s a gift. It’s what makes us awesome at our jobs. We see the world in a completely different way.We view the world with the mentality that everything around us can be improved, and we are able to visualize those phantom improvements. We want to fix all of the things.It’s actually pretty awesome when you think about it. We see what no one else can see: the potential for a better world.I was on vacation with my daughter when I walked into the hotel bathroom and exclaimed, “This shower head design is horrible!”My daughter called from the other room without missing a beat, “Mom, we’re on vacation, stop analyzing the usability of the bathroom fixtures so we can go to the pool!”Seriously though, worst shower head design ever. I took pictures to prove it:So the next time you’re sitting in a restaurant explaining to your significant other why the font choices for the menu are terrible, or staring in disgust at the kerning in your child’s holiday play flyer, or you’re explaining to a miscellaneous stranger at the bus stop why the bench should be turned at a 45 degree angle so that passersby won’t bang their kneecaps on it; know that you’re not alone.There are many others who, like you, can’t help wanting to make the world around them a better place, one experience at a time.UX  Content Strategist at 

Most people will tell you that friction damages a user experience because it slows down interactions, reduces conversions, and impedes progress. If the ideal UX is quick and easy, friction is obviously your enemy, right?Maybe not.In fact, from education to social networks to marketplaces, friction can create feelings of accomplishment, improve engagement, and increase quality.Here’s 3 ways friction could make your product that much better. But first, a definition, just to make sure we’re all speaking the same language:If there’s 1 company that has looked friction in the face and laughed, it’s IKEA.Think for a moment about the convoluted in-store experience: They make you walk through the entire store to get to checkout. Along the way, you have to take notes. And then you get to play gofer, pulling your stuff from inventory yourself.And that’s all before you even go home to tackle the Rubik’s Cube that is your future desk.Given everything they ask of you, Ikea’s approach seems to be the polar opposite of good experience design. Yet, science says that IKEA’s approach demonstrates their deep understanding of a core psychological principle:People like to feel a sense of accomplishment.In 2011, business researchers from Harvard, Tulane, and Duke conducted a series of experiments that demonstrated that So, strategically asking your user to do some heavy lifting can actually enhance their satisfaction with your product.Fascinated, the team dug deeper, in search of the causes. It turns out that people enjoy the IKEA effect because it lets them demonstrate their competence to others. Just think of how proud you were when you showed your significant other the desk you’d finally conquered. The extra effort boosts your sense of pride and competence.The same dynamic plays a part in Pinterest’s popularity too, because it lets you show off your hunting and gathering skills. Every pin represents a “secret” you discovered and are now proud to share with others.IKEA shows us that serving up the outcome on a silver platter may rob your users of a chance to build self-esteem. So the next time you see a way to simplify a flow, ask yourself if a little friction (and even frustration) might increase the user’s attachment to or engagement with your product.When you’re thinking about acquiring users, But that only really works when your user’s satisfaction doesn’t depend on other users. In the case of a platform, such as a social network or marketplace, the quality of users and their interactions define a good product and experience.In fact, to achieve scale in a platform model, good UX design often requires that you filter out bad users.Think about Product Hunt. If anyone could post a product, spammers would turn the experience into a 24/7 infomercial. By requiring a nomination from “the most engaged and thoughtful contributors” in the community, they’re carefully curating the content by first curating the people who can post. Good use of friction.Even in products that don’t focus on community-generated content, user quality still matters. Think about a dating website like Match.com or caregiving site Care.com. For these sites, the users Now consider marketplaces that connect consumers with services. Traction is critical — if a person can’t find a massage or dance class near them, they may bail. But if LivingSocial or Groupon let anyone and everyone in the door, low-quality providers would bump refund rates and deter users from future purchases.Friction can create confusion and increase cognitive load. That’s generally a bad thing if you don’t want to make me think. But for educational products, friction can actually improve the outcome.In Here’s an example:A) “Joey’s brother punched him again and again. The next day his body was covered in bruises.” B) “Joey’s brother became furiously angry with him. The next day his body was covered in bruises.” C) “Joey went to a neighbor’s house to play. The next day his body was covered in bruises.”Can you guess which sentence sparked the most brain activity?It was B. Not only did subjects spend the most time reading and thinking about connections that required some interpretation, but retention was notably higher.The point? You don’t want to be totally opaque, but a little difficulty can add a lot of quality. In other words, Daniel Pink describes a similar concept in his book Drive. He argues that mastery is one of the three core components of motivation and that “Goldilocks tasks,” which are neither too difficult nor too easy, are core to mastery.Friction has a bit of a bad reputation, but it’s not inherently negative. Like any design tool, it can either add to or detract from the experience, depending on how and where you use it.So go ahead and take a fresh look at friction. Could it be doing you any favors?Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

While web design has become a hot commodity in today’s competitive market, many clients still don’t have a clear understanding of what exactly they are trying to accomplish with their website. The most frequently listed goal is “establishing an online presence”, but the sheer vagueness of the statement makes it not much more than wishful thinking.This is why user experience, or UX design, is very much in demand: it’s a fresh take on the design process; one that emphasizes ease of use and access for the user, instead of useless features or design elements. One of the main purposes of UX design is finding the right balance between adhering to the users’ needs and accomplishing business goals of the website.Of course, since UX design is a relatively fresh concept, there are still a lot of misconceptions on the subject, ranging from the simple misunderstanding of the fundamental principles of the UX, to reaching false conclusions on the approaches that work.So here are seven of the most common UX design myths that are still doing the rounds well into 2015. Let’s put them to bed once and for all…All businesses have a user experience. It’s just that not all businesses design their user experience. When your company dispatches an invoice, the tone of that invoice can be on-brand, or it can be a template; both solutions will get you paid, but one of them also stands a better chance of retaining your customer’s business. When your company answers the phone, you can match the approach of your website, or you can provide a disjointed approach; both result in a conversation, but one stands a better chance of winning new business.Think of how awesome it is to watch a service like Netflix on your phone whilst you commute, then to automatically transfer to your TV when you get home. That’s a consistent user experience. If Netflix didn’t tie those two devices together, you’d be getting the same product, but the user experience wouldn’t be so sweet.The misconception that has caused the most businesses to fail ever, would probably be that users make rational decisions. Thousands, if not millions of great ideas have failed because people didn’t account for the fact that just because your product is the rational choice when you take into account all the objective facts, it won’t necessarily be the choice for people in your market.Sometimes subjective, irrational aspects influence the buying decision the most; and figuring out those triggers for your user experience can make all the difference.Perhaps the most common mistake of any business marketing itself, is believing that it understands its audience, knows what they like, and what they expect from the company. This should be made clear to all businesses: you always love your product too much, and think that others must love it, too. The only way to achieve results is to test everything and collect clear, comparable and objective data.Understanding customers can only come from in-depth research. If a company makes assumptions about the experience users need, then the company is designing for itself. Sure, you’ll hit the mark by chance sometimes, but if you want to be confident designing a user experience assume you know nothing, and research research research.Many still look at UX design as some magical formula that’s supposed to “fix” a design’s problems, but in fact, UX design encompasses the entire design process and beyond. If a brand is a company’s values, then UX is how the company implements those values.UX plays a huge role in web design, but its importance extends beyond the Web into every aspect of a business and especially into areas where that business connects with its customers.While usability is an essential part of any UX and web design, the fact is that natural principles of business and targeting can’t be ignored as well. In order for a design to be a success both financially and as a branding tool, learnability and behavioral-emotional responses by the target audience have to be studied and then implemented. It represents an essential part of the equation in the success of a project.Perhaps one of the more common UX design myths is that it is a project that can be finished and put to bed. The fact is that because of the insurmountable opportunities for improvement, and the ever-changing landscape of the online markets, only those that continually monitor and work to improve their user experience can achieve measurable and sustainable success.When companies implement a UX design, it’s not about choosing to rebrand, or adding a new channel to contact customers. UX design results in a UX strategy, and that strategy needs to be referred back to anytime a decision is taken in the company.In this age of technology, many businesses have been dazzled by the flashy possibilities of new, emerging technology, but just because a new technology is available, doesn’t mean that it’s the best option, especially when it comes to UX design. Technology is just a tool to achieve results, which means improving the user experience; and if it doesn’t serve that purpose, it’s simply a waste of time and resources.Remember that UX design is about the customer, and customers often don’t have the time or inclination to retrain in order to understand something new. Implementing new technology is fine, provided that it meshes seamlessly with your existing business so that established customers aren’t alienated.Even though UX design is increasingly recognized as an essential tool for business, too many clients, and too many designers, view it as part of a website design project. That couldn’t be further from the truth. UX design is an all-encompassing approach that covers everything from web design through to customer service. Running an ecommerce store, UX design covers not only the design of your site, but your returns policy too. Running a blog, UX design gives your unsubscribe process as much attention as your sign-up.The most important thing to remember is that all businesses have a user experience, it’s just that the smart ones choose to design theirs, the others leave it to chance.Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

Mientras el mundo entero se re-inventa las formas de diseñar interfaces, experiencias de usuario, servicios y las cosas conectadas a internet, muy pocos se preocupan por reinventar la forma en que se explican, se muestran y se justifican los usos de las metodologías de diseño frente a aquellos que las contratan o se benefician de ellas.Llevar de la mano implica generar empatía, comprender las debilidades y fortalezas de cada empresa, lidiar con temas que a veces no queremos, y sobretodo llevar al cliente a que haga preguntas sin temor. He visto como algunas empresas de diseño y tecnología, de todos los tamaños, se aprovechan del desconocimiento digital y técnico del cliente, para enredarlo entre post-it y post-it, y extensos e impecables documentos que hasta parecieran oler bien,A finales del 2010, siendo arquitecta de información Cinco minutos después de la presentación, una colombo-española, líder interna del proyecto, me dijo cautelosamente al oído: “Joder, ¡pero no entiendo nada!”. En la pantalla se mostraban una jerarquía de elementos rectangulares, atados a otros por líneas, mostrando la relación jerárquica de secciones y capítulos. Todos miraban con atención pero hacían pocas preguntas, o preguntas descontextualizadas. Claramente nadie entendía nada.Aunque en el proyecto yo era más una invitada y no expositora, por experiencia en situaciones similares sabía que Si el cliente viera el sitio web como una pieza industrial, o una obra de ingeniería, esto no sucedería porque las estructuras se levantan imponentes ante nosotros y nos acostumbramos a ellas…. No sólo se trata de enseñar a hacer UX sino de enseñar a comprender y valorar los instrumentos que se usan. Hacer que tu cliente te entienda y además se apropie de los conceptos, es lo que deberías considerar un éxito. Pero el tema no es fácil, nada fácil, menos en un mercado latinoamericano donde la venta de humo se cotiza a la alza.Este año he tenido ganas de abandonarlo todo ante la frustración que me ha generado no poder comunicarme con interlocutores técnicos de la misma manera. Asumí que si los ellos trabajan en tecnología me entenderían, pero al parecer el lenguaje de la UX no es tan familiar como creemos.Por eso recomiendo algunos aspectos claves que deberíamos tener en cuenta si es que queremos un proceso menos conflictivo de comunicación :Si bien el proceso UX Consultant and partner at 

Website’s first impression is hugely underestimated in UX processes I observed recently. In fact, the potential of using highly influential factors is barely considered during first time experience.One of these potent factors with far-reaching effect is unique Value Proposition (VP).The very first segment that attracts user’s attention is 1–2 longer sentences (sometimes with short text paragraph) that are usually supported by picture of product placed in the center. An addition of 3–4 columns describing product/service benefits is used to clarify the overall product value. Compilation of all of these elements elaborates the product VP.In a nutshell it is statement that explains why a potential customer should buy from you. Based on this, customers can easily compare your product’s uniqueness with other products and choose the right one.Hence, one of your top priorities should be perfectionist, emphasis on copywriting after conducted user research to help your potential customers realize value in split of second without thinking excessively and fall into frustration.This can be so powerful that the least information extracted from VP statement can convince visitor will click right away on CTA button. That’s why so many UX best practices recommend placing CTA button right after the VP.The compelling evidence of VP’s impact is the fact of serving it’s purpose not only in external communication with customers as explained in previous lines. During the hard times of strategic decisions VP provide clear guideline to keep product values and general direction on the right track. VP is your north star to keep you on the right course through the product evolution.To learn more about this topic, take a look on the diagram posted in UXLady Now you know that the VP is an essence. So what’s the approach to create one? I synthesized several blogs and articles and put together a best practice approach for you.So let’s bake one yummy VP!To create powerful sentences that touch your users, you need to consider these areas:It’s not a must to cover these areas directly in words. But these are the fundamental conditions.I chose formula used again by UXLady. I liked this technique because of my mathematical/IT background (formula), but let’s forget about formula and call it recipe!☺This simple recipe consists of 3 ingredients that lead to creating a statement speaking to the hearths of your customers:Let’s look into the Twitter’s and Pinterest’s kitchen.Did you spot the ingredients? So again Twitter VP cake.“The Aforementioned 3 Avoid any superlatives, vagueness, hype, abstract words — basically any words that aren’t saying something helpful. “World-class” and “easiest” don’t support visitor’s line of thinking how the hell this thing makes their life easier. Use quantitative statements rather than qualitative. Introduce clarity and specificity — underestimated tools of conversion.✕ qualitative: ✓ quantitative: Describe technical terms or specific terms of specialization in words easily understandable for average individual not trained in particular area = Layman (in words said by potential customer it’s even better!).✕ technical: ✓ layman: VP helps customer to imagine how your product is used and what are the benefits of everyday usage. Remember our Pinterest VP cake?“Join Pinterest to find* (and save*!) all the things* that inspire you”A couple rules here to affect the tone of your writings in order to put the trust to the first place.Use rules of contrast to make VP stand out. Make it loud and clear!Some words works very well against competition, so make your research. Use these in beginning part of your VP:Sometimes you only think you are helping others to understand the product by your catchy VP. Let’s take a look on how NOT to do it.This is a slogan more than meaningful sentence explaining the value of your product:Many online businesses confuse their value proposition with their mission statement, which is more business oriented rather than visitor oriented:VP is tightly linked to your business strategy. Airbnb gives a great example with their pivot reflection into presentation of product.Comfortable and successful renting of house where people stay for a couple of days was Airbnb’s main focus. Now it’s more than that. The service has now deeper impact and transformed from just single goal oriented (renting a place) to a broader travel experience direction (recommending favourite coffee bars, restaurants, introducing cultural traditions etc.).When your product changes, your VP must too.VP is critical element of your product/service online presentation. It needs to stick in the heads of the people you serve for months. Take your time and utilize the toolkit I gave you to bake yummy VP cake.I know I introduced quite a few tough constraints to consider here. Don’t worry about that. Play with it, but don’t rely only on your intuition or You’ll notice when you find a sweet spot thanks to huge boost. Enjoy!Did you find this article valuable? Recommend it to your Medium friends.VP is part of visitor’s first impression. Are you curious how to take it to the next level? The answer is covered in my previous article: DIGITAL DESIGNER × CREATING IMPACTFUL DESIGN Exploring importance of digital design for producing results

This process is entirely meant to be non-linear. Traditionally, we move across our UX process from point A to point B leaving the previous steps behind. UX Triage is not traditional at it’s core. The For a quick-ish burn down of Priority one with a Not all See’s will be pages, not all Do’s will be links or buttons.Commonly, as designers we are structuring out When we design for products that connect to the internet of things, they don’t often have a screen for user interactions.Things a user can do are limitless. On a previous project, I had to design a SMS system that communicated data and control over for each sprinker head on luxury resort green spaces. There were no “screens” or “pages” to put on a wireframe.In an example with a little more fun, While we are developing our Not that this is gospel, but there might be an interaction that is enabled or impossible based on how the components are broken into parts. The developer should have additional insight on how it will impact performance, or any other number of aspects.An analogy of how these pieces might fit together, would have to be a road trip. The The map isn’t only your ideal route, it’s also the path you take, the alternate routes for everyone else, and all the possible options within your product. It’s a map for many users who can take many paths. You can start out with a happy plan, but there might be a pivot here and there, or users can start from a different location entirely with different baggage.Regardless of the path you want to take, there are variations and changes, don’t leave the map outdated, you want to keep the next traveler (dev/client/user) informed of the possiblites.The events are many, and most of them optional. When a user arrives at a location, they can perform allowed events. Our Work was a double-edge application — as mobile app for students to become brand reps on their respective campuses and a CMS to allow for W0rk or the brands to create and manage campaigns.The mobile application’s needs were quite shallow.Messages to the user are not “pages”, but they are what the user will “see” add need to be documented for the build process.The user record being sent to the brand side is not a “see” or a “do”, but it is a vital piece of data for our friend, the developer. So adding a token of info here facilitates the conversation about when and where data is being passed around.The When the user is on the Dashboard there are many things they can “see”, but not many things they can “do”.These are only a few of the parts for the entire application, but I hope they shed a little light on how I use UX Triage within the UX Audits with which I fill my days and weeks.At If you would like to see or hear more about how I have used these tools in practice, reach out. You can google “-UX evangelist  Creative consultantHandpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

I wanted to be an architect since I was fifteen. The moment I graduated from high school, I enrolled in architecture school. I planned on doing well, to graduate with honors, to become a famous architect and to be in my love with my job.In college, we were often given a particular topic to build a design around. The joy of working on what I was passionate about gave me a high every day. My architecture peers and I held varying opinions on things and approached every issue with a different focus. At the end of the day, that was what created the distinction among the poor, the average, the good and the best.I was the best. My overzealous personality had worked in my favor. I graduated top of my class and my student work was nominated for a prestigious award in the UK. I felt incredibly lucky to have known what I wanted to do in life at a young age, and to then be able to live it I was awarded a scholarship to complete my Master degree but the catch was that I had to work for the company sponsoring my education following graduation. That was when my dreams began to crack at the edges.Suddenly, I wasn’t the best. The issues that I wanted to tackle didn’t matter. My selection of materials for what I thought was the best for the project didn’t matter. The best user experience didn’t matter very much as well. Instead, the budget mattered, the clients’ voices mattered, the authorities — its limitations and the deadlines they imposed on the project mattered.It killed my passion a little. Being demoralized at work put me in a weird position where I wasn’t sure how to give it my best, until I realized the impact my work has because of the implicit permanence of designing a physical structure.There is an ugly structure sitting innocently in my hometown. My then superior revealed to me that he had designed it in his early days. The younger him did not fully realize the influence his design would have on the built environment. He shared his deep regret with me, hoping to inculcate within me a sense of responsibility in the work I put out. A huge part of it has to do with a designer’s pride. Your name is stamped on every building you design and most of the time, the building stands there permanently, or until a rich developer decides to take it down for another erection.In product design, there is a lot of emphasis on user testing. Compared to architecture, it is much easier, quicker and cheaper to iterate on a product’s design when we receive user feedback. On the contrary, architects do not have the luxury of tearing down their designs and rebuilding them. It is true that most web designs may be ephemeral in nature but by applying this thinking, I have learnt to do more research and to put in deeper thought during the design process; this could potentially eliminate the stages of iterations that usually follow.Don’t get me wrong. There were still plenty of creative things I enjoyed about practicing as an architect but a large chunk of it was unrelated to what made me pursue it in the first place. I thought to myself, of course one has to go through the dark times to be able to do what one truly wants to; of course I have to do all the leg work first so that maybe one day I can work for One summer, I finally threw in my resignation letter. Long story short, after months of backpacking in the U.S., I ended up in San Francisco. I Rejections? Try again. In architecture school, ideas often get torn apart during critique sessions. Many times, I have found myself completely beaten up in the wake of these sessions. Hours and hours spent on drawings and models only to have them destroyed (literally!!) by the merciless panel. But I had to bounce back. There was that, and there was quitting, and quitting was not an option.Accept that as long as you are a designer, you will be criticized. Despite your best efforts, there will always be someone who does not know the intended button to click, someone who thinks that your designs aren’t as intuitive as the next. You will, however, never know the value of your craft until it’s out there.During my first months living in San Francisco, I lived in an international backpacker’s hostel. It was some of the best days of my life. Living out of a suitcase and having a change of roommates every night took a toll on me but meeting people from all around the world has enriched my life in indescribable ways. Everyone was vastly different; if it was not for the hostel, we would have never connected. There was an Iranian classical composer, a Spanish waiter, the most bohemian American floral designer you would ever meet, an Irish used car salesman and then there was me. Interacting with them and every other fleeting character on my travels inevitably taught me one of the most valuable lessons I had as a designer.Even though we got along supremely well, there were many moments when we had conflicts. These conflicts were often the result of expecting someone else to act like you would.As an architect, whenever we are presented with a project brief, we often have to travel to the project site for studies before starting on the design. We would sleep on site, eat by the site, breathe the air at the site and talk to the locals who are using these existing spaces. That often makes me wonder, why is it that product owners and UX professionals often start designing for a demographic without first living the problem?How you see things usually isn’t how someone else sees things. This seems obvious enough, but honestly, it really isn’t. Upbringing, cultural differences, personal experiences, just to name a few, contribute to the whys and hows of the reasons and ways in which we do things. Common practices to me, I found out, were very often not common to people from other parts of the world. This is fundamentally the most important thing you should remember as a UX designer.If you are planning to design a product for a certain target audience, consider traveling to that part of the world, talk to the people and immerse yourself in their culture. First hand experience with a problem has to be the best way to start designing a great product. Travel.On that note, one of the main reasons I was able to get this far is simply by being open, humble and learning from others. Everyone you meet possess experiences and knowledge that you can learn from. Additionally, I believe that people are inherently kind and if you sincerely ask for help, you will often receive it.Contrary to what I thought I will experience, I do not regret leaving architecture or my home country. Embarking on this wonderful adventure to discover my “true creative career” has moulded me into the designer I am today. As a lead designer who wears many hats in a young startup, I am often doing work that one may not classify as User Experience Design. Like If you enjoyed this article, please feel free to Architect turned UX Designer. I value good design, lifting heavy, honesty, traveling and eating lots of protein.

In both architectural design and UX design, the hypothesis is that a user has an end goal in mind. For both the architect and the UX designer, their job is to design an enjoyable experience for the user while keeping business objectives in mind.A simple journey getting from Point A to Point B needs to be balanced with understated exposure to other possible routes. For example:A family of five drives to a commercial shopping mall on a Sunday to buy groceries at the supermarket for the week. Dad is driving. He follows the signage to the parking garage. He notes the nearest lift lobby to the supermarket and finds a parking lot near it. He knows that a lot is open because the parking lot status indicator is shining green. Mom wheels the stroller up the ramp to the lobby and little Lucy presses the elevator button, which is designed to be at a universally friendly height. The family takes the elevator up to the third floor where the supermarket is.The trip for the whole family was fuss-free. Along the way, they strolled by restaurants with lunch promotions and shop fronts displaying various items for sale. At some point, grandma saw a Japanese restaurant and developed a sudden hankering for sushi. The whole family decided to stop for a quick meal, patronizing the Japanese restaurant.When architects plan a building, they consider the journey one has to take to get to a destination. In a building with good universal design, the basic expectations have to be met. The journey has to be accessible for all ; that includes the able-bodied, the young, the old, and the handicapped. Signage is legible and appropriately placed to ensure that there is absolute clarity in finding a destination.On top of these minimum requirements, an architect performs as the agent of his client. Part of that responsibility means taking business goals into consideration in order for the development to operate successfully upon completion. Depending on the intent of the development, he may find himself having to plan navigation in a way that boosts sales, or accomplish some other form of desired outcome.For example, in the case of commercial retail projects, revenue has to be made. A successful commercial shopping mall makes profit by having reputable brands and helping them achieve target sales through a combined strategy of marketing and design. Boosting sales through design can work in many ways — the most obvious way is by choosing a retail space that is located in a prominent area. Giving exposure to the more obscurely placed shops helps to increase the overall profit of the development as well.Instead of diverting users away from their journey to fulfill these business goals, architects often practice deliberate and subtle exposure, injecting bits of it along the way. This could be done in the form of opening up corridors to give glimpses of another route, clever placement of signage, etc. In UX design, there are also elements to be considered which are part of meeting business goals. They could be goals for new user sign-ups, advertisements and product placements for increased monetization, etc.Cues can be taken from common architectural design practices by introducing these elements only at appropriate and opportune moments during a user’s journey, and by keeping them visually cohesive with the rest of the site.A smooth journey contributes greatly to a pleasant experience for the user. Designing for seamless connectivity in architecture is very similar to designing for ease of navigation in UX design.Can you recall the last time you were in a building trying to get to any floor beyond the second floor, and there was no elevator? Maybe you felt annoyed, or maybe you might have even made a vow to never step foot in that building again!In architecture, the part where the elevators and staircases run is called the core. It is the main core of a building because it is essentially how people move between different spaces.The secondary circulation system is the horizontal path which one has to walk on to get to point B. Make it too long and winding, and you will end up with a frustrated user.Without an effective system for circulation both, vertically and horizontally, occupants are unable to access parts of that building. In addition, without proper signage, they might not even know these spaces exist. When that happens, those parts of the building can be deemed void. Building a strong core (circulation system) for a building is key for success.Just like in architecture, If it is a frequently visited area of the building, it might make sense to make the journey shorter by placing it nearer to the core. Similarly, in UX design, reducing the number of clicks to get to a popular page improves the user experience. Introducing tabs on the landing page for the main pages of the site is one way to achieve that. In that way, the user does not have to open a menu to search for a page, thereby simplifying navigation.In both architecture and UX design, the designer has to fulfill both the users’ goals as well as the business goals.When learning from architectural processes, one of the main things to note is that architects do not have the luxury to tear down their design once it is under construction. UX professionals are often spoiled so much in the sense that there is this notion that designs can be easily reiterated after gathering user feedback and data. This may be true in some cases but it often requires more time and work than expected. Creating a good foundation early on when planning for a product is good practice, and can reduce a lot of back-and-forth in its growth.A good architect is skilled in balancing the creation of delightful and smooth experiences in a building, and accomplishing his client’s objectives in the same experience. Applying architectural design thinking in this aspect will help you approach the design of your company’s product more effectively as a UX designer.Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

There is In a consumer world, there are no barriers between the In an enterprise world, things are different.Typically it is not possible to understand product benefits and added value just by It is widely accepted that every enterprise product needs Companies still force users to use two The result is always dumb static text (with embedded pictures and videos) that does not have a link to It is not possible to expect that by looking at complex But I like to use bike riding metaphor from Kids For enterprise products User goals and motivations can be researched, synthesised and transferred into Enterprises still understand Companies The fancier Companies also believe that rip-and-replace This is resulting in complex but User experience does not mean that buttons are becoming better Product User experience For Benefits do not belong to This does not mean that pre-sales, consultants, technical support or technical writing have to go away. But it also does not mean that they will simply join the party and throw their stuff on the screen.It is role of UX Designer to synthesise critical product This process will result into more integrated and Internal roles will also extend their horizons. I am crafting great ideas into working products and striving for balance between Design, Product and Engineering #UX.Design stories from designing apps at large enterprise for large enterprises

Forums have been in existence since the dawn of the internet era. People have always loved engaging in intellectual (or mostly non intellectual) banter on forums for decades. They’ve served us well all these years as simple websites with messages chronologically piled one below the other endlessly. But the reach of mobiles broke this fundamental user experience of browsing Forums.Mobile Forums currently thrive on a UX which I like to term “Here’s what a typical popular Reddit feeds look like on Mobile web.Essentially, the UX involves the user to read and scroll endlessly through this page on her phone in order to reach an interesting part of the thread she might wanna explore. And I believe this problem is true for mobile apps of these forums too.*shudder*At Bolt (our Design Hack-day @Housing), my team set out to reimagine what a discussion platform would be like if designed Mobile-first. And stumbled across this problem. Here’s what came up.Since, showing is easier than telling here’s a prototype we did to explain our solution better.So the idea is to figure our keywords in every comment and highlight them when the user scrolls.This helps users stay on top of the content even when they are scrolling through the thread quickly.I’m pretty confident that this design can be easily scaled up to various kinds of comment threads across the web which face similar problems. I’m really excited to learn how designers employ this technique in their applications. If you do deploy it, just PS: Here’s the team behind our little experiment to reimagine mobile forums. Thanks Kanupriya, Abheyraj, Neelam and Shaivya. More experiments coming soon.Cheers :)Designer An insight on what goes into designing experiences that help people live better.

Welcome to the mobile UX edition of MythBusters, a one-time spinoff episode that Discovery Channel has yet to approve of. Many UX myths have spread well beyond control such that professional designers themselves aren’t always absolutely certain what to believe in anymore.Fair enough, many designers eventually rely on their own intuition, experiences, and knowledge to successfully create user-centered products. A handful of UX specialists have dedicated themselves to the essential task of busting UX myths, such as the folks ofWithOn the contrary. It’s true thatWhen a user seeks to engage in a task using a mobile device, the chances of him/her getting distracted from the task is as likely as that of using a desktop or any devices, not because mobile users suffer from ADD but because our fast-paced lives have apparently turned us all into goldfish. Designing for mobile and for anything else for the matter requires that delicate skill to make important content visible and to make use of attention-grabbing hooks.If a mobile device is like a home, native applications would be like its inhabitants that know where each kitchen utensil is and how to use every appliance whereas web or hybrid applications would compare to frequent AirBnB guests in that same home.It’s not true that native is always better in terms of delivering an optimal user experience. Web technologies such as HTML5 have come a long way in proving to be relevant for the mobile context. The main advantage of web or hybrid apps over native apps is that of being a single solution for every device and hence, taking away the need to wait for OS updates on particular devices. Web or hybrid apps can also receive real-time updates without users having to update anything.No doubt that when it comes to performance, native mobile apps still reign in terms of speed, features, and offline functioning, all of which are key elements to a successful user experience. However, every app is different and the needs of each project vary. Web or hybrid apps are undeniably easier to maintain and require a smaller development budget.As new technologies continue to emerge and to improve the mobile web experience, I’d say that web or hybrid apps could be akin to a long term Couchsurfing guest who isn’t quite completely at home yet genuinely feels comfortable being there.Although this myth has been dispelled so many times over, many still believe in keeping important content “above the fold” and dedicating that top space to just that. The fold doesn’t exist and people do scroll. They may not say that they enjoy scrolling, but they naturally do it anyway. In fact, it’s like one of those ticks that have you swiping away on your mobile phone while waiting in line even though there are no new notifications.If a website doesn’t require scrolling, my first assumption would be that it’s either broken or it’s “coming soon”. Worse yet if it’s a mobile site, as mobile users are total scrollers. In fact, with the way scrolls work these days, it’s more like users flick up and down almost immediately upon landing on a mobile page.Whether for desktop or mobile, think of creative ways to design to encourage scrolling. Make it fun, like this very informativeGiven how often mobile is discussed these days and how much iOS/Android Engineers are raking in monthly, it’s easy to get swept away by the whole ‘mobile’ hype.I had a client calling me not long ago claiming that they need to “Many companies think that all their user experiences should “Designing for mobile has certain restrictions, mainly that of real estate limitations. While we want to provide our users with an interface that’s easy enough to use, we also want them to be able to accomplish what they want to do in the first place. We try to achieve simplicity which, in fact, implies a greater complexity that has been thoughtfully reduced for improved usability.A rising trend in design for mobile is the minimalist approach, but a minimalist UI is only one way to simplicity and it’s not often the best way, according toIf a mobile UI is so reduced to the point of leaving little to no important content or clues on where to find the content, it becomes nothing more than pretty colors, icons, and typefaces. Implementing clues and indicators that are difficult to grasp or have no affordance is a surefire way to kill your user experience.Linking this to the above myth of how people don’t scroll, it’s good to bear in mind that in some cases, users seek long form content even when on mobile devices. For instance, a user visiting a website on mobile is unlikely to revisit the same site on desktop thinking that the mobile version must be a summary of sorts. Hiding content or placing it in mysterious places for the sake of minimalism isn’t always the best way to go.Build high-fidelity fully interactive mobile app prototypes quickly. No coding required. Get a 15-day free trial at: 

You don’t have to work in the design industry for very long to come across the word We talk about it as if it is something absolute — it’s either intuitive or it’s not. Google Maps is intuitive, the Linux shell is not intuitive. This weather site is intuitive, that weather site is not.Intuition is not absolute though. In fact it is constantly changing. The amazing thing is that we as designers, not on our own but together, get to decide what will become intuitive. It is this facet of the relation between design and human behaviour that makes UX an exciting place to be.I’d like you to sit on your hands. No, go on, just put your hands on your seat and sit on them. Now I’d like you to answer a question:Not that easy to answer, is it? You may (like I do) have the urge to physically act out the motions with your hands. You may be able to picture yourself performing the action in your head. You may have a mnemonic memorised (righty tighty, lefty loosy). Few of us just know.We do not have an inherent understanding of which way to turn the lid. It was something we had to learn. In fact, at one time there was no standardised way to screw and unscrew things. During the cold war, the Russians had clockwise submarines and anti-clockwise submarines. There is some evidence to suggest that a submarine was lost in the 1960s due to a sailor having recently transferred between subs of different “handedness”.Similarly, we have no inherent understanding of our digital world. A few years ago, I noticed a colleague wondering why her new iPhone didn’t work as advertised. It turns out that she was using her fingernail to tap the phone, rather than the skin of her finger. Her It was up to the first digital designers to create the landscape that we now take for granted. As an example, many people reported being somewhat shocked when Google introduced the concept of updating a whole results page as you typed. This was not long ago, and yet we now expect all our devices to react immediately as we enter search terms. The autocomplete of today would not be intuitive for the tech-savvy person of ten years ago.As designers, we should be interested in this question — how can I guarantee that my design will feel intuitive? Well, you can’t totally guarantee that it will be. This is because the grand total of design rules for intuition boils down to:That’s really all there is in design terms. Everything else is based on learned behaviour. Even though you may not be able to remember the first time you clicked on a button or switched between two radio options, it doesn’t mean they will make sense to a This may be frustrating as it doesn’t give you much in the way of tangible advice for creating “good” designs. But it also represents an opportunity, as it serves as a reminder that people are immensely adaptable and flexible.Often, “good” design is simply taking advantage of precedents. People have become used to However, this is something that is happening all the time. As UX and UI designers, we have the opportunity to play with designs. Sometimes you will hit on an interaction, a cue, or a component that simplifies or supports better than the current state of the art. When that happens, the designer has the opportunity to change the perceptions, expectations and behaviour of millions of people, because that component will become widespread.And that’s what makes UX so exciting.Creative Director at pebble {code} in Vauxhall, London. Design, Ergonomics, Product Development, UX, Research, Neuropsychology and Data Visualisation.

A master facilitator. A supreme accommodator. He is Ralph Fiennes in The Grand Budapest Hotel.An user experience designer is the human bridge between the user and organisation. She considers the area where customer needs and business requirements mesh. This requires an encompassing awareness of all stakeholders. The user, the organisation and the design team. His tools are empathy and service. All parties need to be considered and catered for.UXUnlike the deadly ninjas that infiltrate the darkness of your dreams, we bring you great articles about user experience, web design, and technology!

I accept every invitation I can to be a user testing participant, whether from a tiny start up in the Mission to a Silicon Valley office park. Invariably there is knowledge to be gained from the experience — but far too often it is an anti-lesson.Gaining meaningful, forthright feedback from users is absolutely critical — yet the process of acquiring it is deceptively difficult. Stating “we’re not testing you, we’re testing the website” and asking a few follow-up questions will not suffice.If, among the many hats you wear, you must conduct UX research yourself, observing the following tips should help you get closer to the credible data you need.Understanding the following will go a long way toward designing more effective UX research sessions: Americans have a deeply-ingrained cultural tradition of positivity, and we often lie, hedge, or hold back honest thoughts rather than give direct, critical feedback for fear of hurting feelings.Therefore, to bring out a participant’s inner Simon Cowell, you must cultivate a context in which one can be completely authentic.This means: remove all people who may be perceived as creating the product from the research process. The participant will likely feel uneasy if the creator of the work she is to critique is observing or part of the discussion. I’ve known in-house UX researchers to lie and say that they had nothing to do with the website in question so the participant wouldn’t fear hurting feelings. Though I can’t condone outright lies I do understand the impulse.For example: recently, as a participant, I spoke directly about a feature that I felt was misguided. One of the four people in the room started giggling. I felt like I stepped into a heated personal debate among employees over that feature; perhaps the laugher disliked or campaigned against it, and felt my comment was public validation. Whatever the reason, no participant should be put into such a position.An unaffiliated researcher, ideally in another location (is there a coffee shop near the office?) would be ideal.To the layperson a high-fidelity mockup looks like the company is at the 90-yard line with regard to bringing the site to completion. The more work the participant perceives has gone into a site, the less likely she is to speak freely, fearing that your company may have to undo untold hours of work to address her concerns. Be sure to explain clearly and explicitly that a high-fidelity mockup is quickly and easily created; this will go a long way toward relaxing inhibitions.A professor once said this in a seminar during my first semester of graduate school. At first I was startled by what I interpreted to be bitter cynicism and pessimism, but years later I realize it was raw honesty, “tough love” if you must. The person conducting UX research must genuinely Remember that coffeehouse I mentioned earlier? Treating your participants to a chai and croissant is the absolute least you can do to acknowledge their valuable time — and it must be rewarded somehow. Whether a modest gift certificate, bauble or gift bag, honoring your participants for giving you the valuable input you need is non-negotiable and the minimal baseline for professionalism. I received a sincere “thank you” as I departed my in-office session recently. It wasn’t enough.Understanding the tremendous value of quality UX research is half the battle; only executing it well will give your team the insights they need to create the optimal end product and ideal user experience.

I started using Fast forward to July 2015 and I’m using Sketch for 50% of my work. To put this in perspective; UX documentation (personas, flows, all that good stuff), UI content, UI styling and my ideas all in Sketch. The only thing I don’t use Sketch for is writing documents (I use Google Docs for that) and interactive prototyping (I use Axure for that).Before Sketch began to dominate my workflow, Axure did. Axure was the go to tool which had all the bells and whistles. Most importantly, it could do the essentials; UX documentation and interactive prototyping. UI styling, UI content and hi-fidelity? This was left to the UI designers. Often I would look over their shoulder while they used Illustrator or Photoshop. Sort of back-seat designing.The difference between the last two paragraphs, which explain my workflow then and now, isn’t enormous. It looks rather like I now do more hands-on UI design. But that isn’t correct. What has really happened is that I have a greater influence on the UI design. More importantly however, the UI design is beginning to have more influence on me.When a UI designer is working off Illustrator or Photoshop and you’re working from Axure. You don’t have access to each others tools. It is easy to create a mini-waterfall design process. You can create an ugly wireframe and hand it over to the UI designer to work their visual design magic. However, how easy is it to really consider how the wireframe will look when it is recreated? Although there are some UX practitioners out there who will claim they can read the mind of the UI or Visual Designer they work with, those of us without telekinesis cannot. With Sketch, the ease at which you can increase the fidelity, is so easy, that you can make an effort to learn what the UI designer is intending to do and keep it in mind. Perhaps integrate some of it into the wireframe? This is particularly easy if there is an existing style sheet. Symbols in sketch are your friend (if you use them properly).Furthermore, the handover between UX and UI can be much quicker. I mean much, much quicker. E.g. UX has completing one page and UI is completing the other. This isn’t something that is possible with Axure and Illustrator or Photoshop. Adobe’s programs have much steeper learning curves and what does an Axure ninja do when they’re at the edge of their Photoshop or Illustrator knowledge? Have to rely on the UI designer. This isn’t something that happens too often with Sketch.Sketch app gave me a greater appreciation for visual design during ideation. I think it will have that effect on other UX practitioners who use Sketch, because all the tools they need to create a higher-fidelity are right in front of them. How happy are the UI designers about this? Not sure, the auto-UX Designer @ Whitbread PLC (all views my own)A collection of design content, stories, tips, articles, tutorials on Sketch and prototyping

Recommended podcasts for UX students  practitionersYou don’t need to read this introductory part.But as long as you’re still here, let me talk about a bad habit I have and how it took me way too long to discover an obvious solution. Often, I’ll find myself with a list of “chores” — (often mindless) things I need to do that I just really don’t feel like doing. In a vain attempt to make the chore feel less like a chore, I’d sometimes pull up something on YouTube in a tiny little browser window or stream a movie I’d seen a million times to my TV.This was really stupid. Someone as well versed in human cognition and information processing as I really ought to know better, but our flaws give us character, right? Right.Sometimes I’d get wise to myself and put on music instead. I love music, so sometimes that worked. But then sometimes it didn’t. I came to realize it was because I had two things going on that only kinda/sorta captured my attention; I needed something to engage me in order to make the mindless tasks seem enjoyable. The answer? Podcasts. There a quite a few that have not only made some of my more tedious tasks a more pleasant experience, but have also given me a lot of food for thought in the process.This (hilariously incomplete) list is as much a thank you to the wonderful people who have created these lovely bits of auditory ephemera as it is a suggestion to my fellow UX professionals. May these podcasts help your career wax and your boredom wane.Debbie MillmanProbably one of the quintessential podcasts on all things design. It’s a Who’s Who of design in interview form. If there are some giants whose shoulders you’ve been meaning to stand on you’ll probably find them here, kneeling down and eager to have you climb aboard. I believe its run has ended, but archives are still available.Mike Monteiro  Jessie CharIf you saw the name “Mike Monteiro” and didn’t involuntarily mouth an excited “Oh, shit!” and then scramble to add this podcast to your preferred podcast player, you’ve probably got Mike FishbeinAfter a few episodes, you’ll be tempted to rebrand yourself a product manager. They somehow manage to produce quality deep dives into topics that relate to how to make awesome products(read: great UX) in 20 minutes or less. This has taught me more about how to communicate UX values to PMs and leadership types than most anything else I’ve come across in recent memory.Roman MarsThis is my favorite world-behind-the-world podcast. It’s a wonderfully produced radio show (stylistically similar to the likes of Lulu Miller  Alix SpiegelContinuing on the hidden information theme, this podcast examines the forces that control human behavior with equal parts compelling scientific research and imaginative storytelling. As of this time of writing they’ve only produced six episodes, but it only took one for me to fall in love with it.Jason Blumer  Dan MallConfession time: I’m recommending a podcast to you that I haven’t actually listened to yet. That said I’ve had it recommended to me many times as “the business podcast for designers.” It’s managed to attract Mike Monteiro as a guest, which is proof enough for me, and just looking over the list of topics fills me with a humbling amount of wonder. If I ever decide to go it alone as a designer, my first step will be to lock myself in a room and listen to this podcast on infinite repeat.Jonathan CutrellQuick bursts of advice and inspiration about the skill of web development. If you’re not super into learning how to build websites from the ground up, this isn’t one you’ll want to listen to every episode of. But it’s definitely worth an occasional listen, if only as a way to empathize with the challenges the developers you work with face every day.Myke Hurley  CGP Grey(This is getting to the part of the list where you’ll have to trust me that these are relevant to your craft.) Hrishikesh HirwayDo you think of music as a design artifact? Maybe you should. Each episode is a brief (15 min or less) interview with a composer about one piece of music. Together, they take it apart and examine both the piece and the decisions the composer made to create it.Geoff Englestein, Mike Fitzgerald,  Ryan SturmYou might be wondering what the hell a podcast about board games is doing on this list, but bear with me. Yes, it’s about board games, but it’s about board games as design artifacts. It’s about how to choose the right tools and how to work within your constraints to produce a compelling experience for an audience. Especially given that concepts like flow and gamification are all the rage in web and app design these days, I think you’ll be pleasantly surprised at how often their discussions dovetail with your own experiences as a designer.me.tags = [UX | IxD | Transit | Urbanism | Maps | Data | Storygames | Music]Chronicling corporate innovation in real-time

While recently working on a UX audit for a major Learning Management System vendor, one of our tasks was to overhaul their back-end teacher portal. This short case study will detail some of our design thinking around one of the most common and problematic interactions present in the system. The case study will also demonstrate the valuable place of rapid prototyping in the UX designer’s toolkit.The prototypes presented in this case study were generated using One of the first tasks we undertake when starting a new project is to perform some preliminary usability testing. This often involves screen recording of a typical user session. Ideally this would be undertaken in a lab environment which would allow for more detailed recording of both the screen and the subject.My preference is for these preliminary tests to be carried out with no, or only minimal instructions to the user. The goal here is to identify common workflows and hunt down user frustrations/roadblocks.Very early in our usability testing we identified the “Save Current Work” application flow to be problematic. Here is an anonymized prototype which demonstrates the typical user flow.It was immediately clear from our testing that users were frustrated by this interaction. Post-test interviews indicated that teachers were using the “Save” button often due to anxiety with regard to losing work, but they found the interaction to be unnecessarily jarring. It necessitated a context switch from “editing course material mode” to “addressing a system message mode”. This context switch was irritating for the user and unnecessary from a UX/UI perspective.Improvements to this workflow were expected to yield a great ROI in regard to developer time needed to implement changes and user satisfaction with respect to improved workflow.The learning management system that we were working with is web based. This means that when presenting proposals for system improvements we need to keep in mind certain realities such as network latency which will affect the end user’s experience. Operations such as saving work can take as long as 200ms, and can fail, particularly if the end user is accessing the system via cellular network.As with any major, user facing, product change, devising a new and improved user flow was an iterative process which required liaising with a number of stakeholders ranging from the product management team through to developers and of course end users.The following demonstrates, in roughly chronological order, a series of prototypes that were developed to address the usability issues identified.The user no longer has to give their attention over to a modal window. While this is an improvement, the user is forced to wait while a potentially lengthy network request is made.This iteration lacked a clear indication that changes were saved successfully. From user interviews it was clear that users needed clear communication of the operation’s status.Motion is used to draw the attention of the user to a notice that requires their attention.The user cannot miss this important notification, therefore the notice no longer automatically fades away, instead requiring the user to dismiss it.User testing is an integral part of any UX audit. Our prototyping tool of choice, Motion design is a critical component of any modern UI. UX-App is a At this early phase of UX design it would be a costly mistake to devote resources toward pixel perfect animation key framing. Our goal is to iterate on ideas quickly by using UX-App’s pre-built animation templates that are tailored specifically for UI designers. Particularly useful are animations devoted to hiding/showing and highlighting elements such as buttons labels etc.The choice of whether or not to include motion design in a UX audit is dependent on a number of factors. For example, motion design is more critical for mobile applications than for desktop. One thing is for certain though, communicating complex application flows and state changes via text or static wireframes is not always sufficient.As a UX practitioner it is important to be able to produce UX artefacts that incorporate motion.Some tools that are used by UX practitioners includeOur audit covered many areas of the LMS, from student pages to faculty areas, spanning many application areas such as assignment submission and grading as well as study program planning.Many of our recommendations centered around reducing complexity by consolidating multi-step processing into more streamlined flows and by reducing context switches as much as possible as demonstrated by this mini case study.

Olvida lo que te enseñaron en tus clases de No sé si aplique para todas las industrias. Al menos para el Mundo Digital y la prostitución, esto funciona al cien por cien. La primera es algo ‘reciente’ y deberíamos aprenderle un poco a la profesión más antigua del mundo.Imagina que un viernes en la noche levantas el teléfono para recibir a la mejor ‘acompañante’ que tu sueldo pueda pagar. Llega una chica increíble, con el vestido rojo más sexy del mundo, maquillaje impecable y unos tacones de aguja para infartar a cualquiera. La mismísima Madame Pompadour versión siglo XXI. Entran al hotel de paso y te pregunta tu nombre, conocerte un poco más para saber por dónde empezar. O terminar, La señorita Madame está parada semidesnuda en el marco de la puerta escuchando un montón de instrucciones del padrote. Y tú estás tendido en la cama en pelotas sin saber exactamente qué hacer. Y después de unos minutos (que cuentas como si fueran segundos porque la chica sólo está disponible por una hora), se pone en práctica un número de circo donde eres el payaso, el león y el malabarista al mismo tiempo. Madame sigue las instrucciones y sientes que en cualquier momento se va a romper la cadera. Te sonríe y comienza su dosis de gemidos fingidos de siempre. El padrote la regaña y le dice que a ti no te gusta el ruido, a nadie le gusta su voz tan chillona. Y que por favor no marque las uñas en tu espalda aunque ahora si esté disfrutando todo ese show. Tú no sabes si gritar, reír o llorar.Los minutos siguen corriendo y por fin alcanzas a ver ese orgasmo esperado un poco más cercano. Cuando de pronto el padrote toma a Madame y te dice que fue un negocio hacer placeres contigo, que esperan volver a verte pronto ya que eres un cliente especial y sin decir nada, se van de la habitación. Y tú, con el pito a punto de explotar.¿Te suena absurdo? Es lo que pasa Pero llegan nuestros clientes, o sea el Padrote, y nos dice que hagamos un proceso con 15 pasos, dos formularios y tres llamadas al Escucha a tu cliente, pero también aprende a tener sentido común, Por favor, si eres cliente, trata de entenderme. Me gusta follar, mucho. Y por follar me refiero a crear experiencias increíbles en TU habitación. Déjame hacer lo que me gusta, por lo que me contratas. Te juro que tú y yo vamos a salir ganando. :)Dicho esto, voy a seguir con mis malabares de tres pistas.PD. No lo digo para tener más seguidores en Medium, lo prometo:Comparte este artículo, tal vez llegue a TODOS los clientes que no nos dejan follar… digo, trabajar en paz.Creadora de Mentiras y Amante de los Números.Move thinking forward

Начав свой опыт 15 лет назад с полиграфии, а затем веб-дизайна и разработки мобильных приложений, я не могу не отметить возросший интерес, в последнее время, к такому направлению как Давайте разберем наиболее популярные мифы про UX и UXD.На самом деле это не так. Специалистом по UX (пользовательскому опыту) может быть человек не из дизайн среды. Это может быть продакт-менеджер, специалист по юзабилити, маркетолог, разработчик, любой человек, кто вовлечен в процесс разработки продукта или сервиса.User Interface это картинки, цвета, формы, шрифт, компоновка. кнопочки и формы. Несомненно они могут быть прекрасны сами по себе , но пользовательский опыт от этого лучше не станет. UI всего лишь одна из частей UXD.Это и есть процесс, который включает в себя разные аспекты разработки продукта. Это как раз процесс проектирования На самом деле это может быть и чайник, батарея в вашей квартире и телефон, который вы держите в руках каждый день. UX это ощущения человека в результате проделанной работы по UXD: от сайта до ручки входной двери.Ваш продукт может быть функциональным, супер эффективным и прекрасно справляться с возложенной на него задачей. Но будет ли он нужен людям? Уместен ли контекст применения? Время ли для этих решений? Насколько людям привычно им пользоваться и какие чувства они испытывают в этот момент. Как и UI (User Interface) юзабилити является частью процесса называемого двумя буквами: UXМногие считают, что user expericence — это пользовательский опыт и соответственно весь процесс сосредоточен на том, что бы сделать пользователей — Хорошего дня!UI/UX designerРазговоры про дизайн и всё, что с ним связано. По-русски.

Act III, Scene I.Ok, so maybe not every user of a mobile app is driven to contemplate suicide. But it’s an unfortunate reality that many apps are maddeningly confusing and loaded with unpredictable interface behaviors.Nobody sets out to make a frustrating app. Rather it’s a product of problems that accumulate during a development process which often manages to be both rigid and unstructured at the same time.It all starts with an unclear core idea. Why does the app need to exist? The worst answer is “we should have one”. If the app concept starts as a bucket where all stakeholders can pour their hopes and random ideas, the end product won’t do anything for anyone. People are not looking to “interact with a brand” on their personal device. Mobile users are laser-focused on tasks: if it takes ten seconds to navigate through the app’s menus to discover functionality, the user is already lost. Giving up is always just one home button tap away…But that’s all still in the distant future as the team blissfully collects their ideas. After the requirements have been haphazardly assembled and immediately set in stone, the project ends up on a designer’s desk. He’s really more at home with kernings, color spaces and keyframes rather than navigation controllers and app bars… But the great thing about apps is that everyone uses a phone all the time, so everyone knows how they’re supposed to work. It’s mostly a matter of making it look nice.He recently saw an interesting blog post about how user interfaces in mobile apps should delight the user. There’s clearly nothing delightful about lists and tabs that look like the ones in the phone’s built-in apps; it’s hard to be delighted when you know exactly what to expect. Delight has an element of surprise, so let’s make sure that the user is delighted right off the bat. Instead of a plain old list, could we make these items have personality. This project turns out to be a great opportunity to design an interaction that the world has never seen before. Time to hit After Effects!At client review, everybody loves the animation. There’s also a PDF filled with wireframes, but they are gray and boring and nobody really looks at them. What’s there to see anyway? That stuff is kind of obvious since everyone can use a phone.Eventually the project moves over to a developer. She receives a motley collection of materials from the designer: QuickTime movie files, PDFs, a huge Photoshop file with 51 layer groups… Oh, and something called a “style guide” that helpfully lists the app’s fonts, as well as hex codes for all the colors. (Never mind that iOS doesn’t even understand colors in hex format.)The developer proceeds to ignore the undecipherable graphics files and moves on to her real work — graphics aren’t relevant until it’s time to put in the final assets. She has been to all the endless meetings about this app, so she knows how it’s supposed to work. It’s all pretty obvious, and secretly she feels those meetings were a huge waste of time.A month later the first iteration of the app is done. It runs on an iPhone! It has a home screen icon! It receives data over the network! And it doesn’t really look anything like the designer’s expectation. “That’s just a matter of skinning it,” says the developer. “Did you even What happens next is anyone’s guess. Maybe the project can be salvaged, and it only exceeds its budget threefold while being six months behind schedule. Maybe the designer’s Floating Balls of Delight interface vision gets fully implemented and then gradually scaled down as some voice of sanity prevails. Or maybe the “nearly complete” project just gets quietly dumped when next year’s budget comes in.The fix for most of these woes lies in prototyping, of course. Prototypes help understand the app’s purpose and its tangible manifestations at all stages of the process. Prototypes can be used to ask questions and provide the team with data to replace feelings and assumptions.The story I told you above is a caricature that hopefully doesn’t match reality in most app development teams (not anymore, anyway). The reason I described the pathological case is to help explain why it’s very hard for a single prototyping tool to answer all the needs that arise during a development process.The The two categories are highly complementary. Clickthrough builders can be very useful in the initial stages of design. Animation systems are great for working out the polish and detail that can make the difference between a uniquely branded app and a merely functional one.However, with all these great tools we have at our disposal, it’s easy to ignore that there are still gaping holes left in what can be prototyped. A clickthrough sort of looks like the real thing, but it doesn’t actually interact with the device in any meaningful way. It can’t display real data. It can’t collect data from the user. It doesn’t send notifications or open links in other apps. As a “picture show”, a clickthrough lacks the essential look’n’feel provided by the operating system.On the other end of the spectrum, new animation systems like Principle are so lovely that it’s easy to get distracted and forget that The fundamental structure of an app can’t be represented as a collection of key states, nor a timeline, nor an Origami-style dataflow that represents a rendering loop. These concepts are all derived from 2D/3D animation packages, and while they are useful constructs for representing sections within an app, they are disconnected from the real building blocks of native apps — components provided by the operating system, things like UINavigationController, which feels rather mundane but is absolutely essential for most apps (except perhaps those with Facebook-like unlimited budgets).Additionally, these tools ignore an elephant in the room: the developer. She’s the one who used to get a dump of QuickTime movies and cryptic Photoshop files… Now she’s getting a web-based clickthrough and a motion prototype that runs on a phone, which is an improvement, but she still has to start from scratch for her work.There’s room for a third kind of prototyping tool: a And, because this tool understands code, it generates it too. Complete IDE projects, in fact. Your prototype is now an actual app too, and suddenly it has access to all sorts of interesting possibilities that would be hard to prototype otherwise. For example: what really happens when the user takes a photo and it’s added to a list? How about sharing that image to another app? (A typical UI prototype uses beautiful stock images to stand in for a user’s own content. This is a common example of a situation where a too-beautiful prototype is misleading.)As it happens, I’ve been working on such a tool with the team at Neonto:Yet it already does a lot of stuff, some of which is not obvious at first sight. Here’s a couple of highlights:What do you think? Is the “third way” of a design-to-code prototyping tool a worthwhile goal to pursue?Im a software / startup / graphics / movies person.

The current CTA signage as it exists is okay but doesn’t show the information I want to know:You’ll notice the screens scroll slowly. The cycle goes like this:Then it repeats. This varies slightly based on how many trains are in the queue but that’s not super relevant to our discussion.And look at this lovely gap in the middle that has no information… for I ride the CTA every day and I barely stop when passing through the turnstiles (even though the “Ventra triple-tap” has slowed my roll). I’ve been counting my average time through a few CTA stations and it takes about 8 seconds from the door through the turnstiles and past the sign — not long enough to see anything more than one information cycle which may or may not be applicable to me and we can do better.To improve this signage I recommend showing when the next few trains are heading north or south.I did a few sketches to explore various options for what the sign could look like and made some notes about functionality including:Once I had a rough idea of the interface, I made a low-fidelity prototype (which you saw above) and asked some of my colleagues for feedback.With their feedback in mind I did another prototype. This annotated wireframe describes the way different portions of the final interface could function:Some other ideas for displaying the information more densely and with less unused space are as follows:Next I created a mid-fidelity prototype in Keynote to roughly illustrate how the animation could work.I think this is a pretty effective proof of concept for how the trains could advance and appear.Props to the colorblind community in This prototype does not solve all the signage issues perfectly and while it is only a first pass, I think it takes a big step forward in creating better digital signage. There are many opportunities to build on this first pass, like having the train destinations map to the side of the tracks the train will be arriving on, listing destinations below the train icons, and more.From there the project should create detailed personas for the various types of riders, identify the core persona, and begin to develop signage which met their needs while still accommodating less frequent riders. This signage would be much closer to the typical riders mental model and ensure I’m not biased in what I’m creating.There are also accessibility considerations such as color-blindness, text size and iconography and hardware, software constraints, etc, but I think this is a totally manageable problem to solve.Thanks to everyone for your feedback!User Experience Design at ZS Associates in Evanston.

Excellent. You actually came back. I just won a bet.Here’s what I think I know: Mike is almost right.UX is (impact of) UI UI is the bit we can control. So, UX = UI is arguably reasonable shorthand.Having almost agreed with Mike, this might be a good place to stop. But it has frequently been pointed out to me that I don’t know when to stop. And I want to clear something up about UX design. So let’s continue.Here’s the thing: it normally takes multiple talented people to create a user experience.You may have worked with If you look at all these people, the reality is that the business analyst may well have had more impact on the UX than, say, the UI designer. And the product manager may well have had more impact on the UX than, say, the UX designer.But it’s not a competition. The point is that they all contributed to the UX in a significant way.So, couldn’t they all claim to be UX something-or-other?Well, they could, but it’s all a question of focus:Now, while everybody above is focusing on what they’re focusing on, a lot of businesses have realised — because customers have told them — that they also need somebody to try and ensure that the right product gets built. And as we know, the user experience is the product.And that’s the role of the UX designer. We lead, facilitate, and advise the team so that the right product (or UX) gets built. And we’ve always done this, even if in the early days it was by encapsulating user and business needs through a wireframe. And sometimes we do some or part of the other roles too, just to ensure that the right product gets built.So, if you want to say you’re a UX/UI designer, I’d rather not just see pretty user interfaces in your portfolio. I’d like to see case studies that explain how you tried to ensure that the right product got built instead, even if you worked alone and to your own brief. And I’d rather you didn’t call yourself a UX designer if you don’t do that necessary and vital work.Does that seem fair and reasonable?Thank you, and good luck with your career.Note: I have no idea what marketing folk do.** Thanks to Freelance UX consultant; Former comedy producer; Trained Chinese chef; Ecyclist; Writing ‘Designing a UX portfolio’ (O’Reilly Media)Ian Fenn on User Experience Design

My favorite UX-inspired line from a movie comes from the legendary and epic film Tron. Tron is a program designed by the engineer Flynn (Flynngineer?). Tron lives inside his software and is utterly loyal to Flynn and the users. His epic and unforgettable line…Ever since I saw the reboot after having become a UX Designer myself, that line took on a whole new meaning for me. Many of you who know me and are connected to me know that this is kinda like my mantra.Fast forward to just a couple months ago while making my daily work commute to Denver from beautiful Colorado Springs area. As I happen to be listening to a great song by Morgan Page called “Yes, I know there are a handful of podcasts out there already that discuss UX and design in general, but the thing that makes Since you’ve read this far, I know this is a concept that resonates with you and that you are really excited about. Heck, you’re practically careening off your treadmill desk, and/or rolling off your fitness ball wondering when the heck this will be out in the wild and when you’ll give me the humbling privilege of speaking into your earbuds. Amiright?? ;)I am actually going to be going to be breaking away from tech for a couple weeks in order to spend some time with my awesome family, but I didn’t want to wait for two more weeks before announcing this and hopefully gaining some interest in the meantime.I’ve setup a temporary landing page on my website that can be accessed through the official domain name:I would love to connect with you personally and notify you immediately when we launch our first episode in the coming weeks.Also, I’d love to engage in conversation with you about this and/or any other design-related goodness Host of 

One of the best books I’ve ever read on User Experiences is titled “REWIND: Let’s look at WHY each one of these situations happen and how they relate to poor user experience design. The traffic accident caused by a man who had to take his eyes off the road to lower the radio’s volume. The radio had a poorly designed knob layout and was confusing to our driver. The line at the gas station was so long because the cashier had to use a complex and confusing system to charge clients. The fact that he had to stand in line at all was because the gas pump didn’t offer any instructions on how to properly insert your card. The coffeemaker didn’t work because he had to push the button all the way down but there was nothing to let him know it was turned on or not — no lights, sounds, no feedback. And everything started when his cat stepped on the alarm clock, resetting it without notification.I’m pretty sure we’ve all had experiences like this. Our technology and appliances aren’t always very clear in their use. However, we ALL are forced to interact with these failing user interfaces on a daily basis. It’s the TV remote, the pay kiosk at the parking ramp, and especially the custom Excel spreadsheet you use to track expense reports. In order to get what we want from these interfaces, we have to successfully interact with them and that can be difficult.That said, we have seen a huge increase in good (read: not great) user experiences over the past decade. As we become more and more reliant upon different inputs, we’re bound to learn what works and what doesn’t and that directly affects the development interfaces we use today and in the future.In 1943, Abraham Maslow introduced Maslow’s hierarchy of needs. In it, he described what we need as humans to fully operate. From physiological (air, water, food) to safety (personal security, financial security, health), love (friends, family, sex), esteem (self-respect, self-esteem), and finally self-actuallization (reaching your full potential).How does this relate to UX Design in the digital and physical world? Maslow gives us the method to understanding the needs of our users. Take online banking for an example:Great user experiences are the result of putting in the extra effort. When usable just isn’t enough. Maslow states that when a person is fully self-actualized, they find contentment as their needs have been all fulfilled. A user finds that same sense of contentment using a product that invested in creating a great user experience. That fully contented user is happier to be a returning customer and brand advocate.Let’s keep this simple: I make digital products work, by ensuring the people who have to use them know how to and enjoy doing so. 

Mobile offers up many of its own challenges when it comes to UX design. One of the most obvious design challenges is dealing with the limited screen real estate and the relative inaccuracy of tap and gesture input.Here are some quick ideas for more effective mobile text entry UX. Let me know your thoughts.Medium user These were great points and I’ve had a go at putting together a prototype that addresses these issues. The result is here:And of course, This is a big improvement on the original UX. The benefit here is that valuable space is not wasted on the label, which on mobile, is particularly useful.From a UX standpoint this design is great because the label remains visually close to the actual text value entered. This closely ties label with value.From a graphic design standpoint the label tends to crowd the value entered. It’s difficult to find a good middle ground with label/value placement which works with both short and long input.Some might consider the animation slightly gratuitous. This might be remedied with a slightly shorter animation duration.This is my personal favorite. I think from an end user perspective it affords good usability without the use of overly distracting animation.One of the earliest examples of space saving label treatment. The major downside is that it necessitates a lot of whitespace above the element. This can create a visually unbalanced feel when not all fields are required, and it also means longer forms.It’s debatable whether this design offers any benefit above the standard input. The only improvement which I can see is that the user has a larger hit area when initially entering text, although this shouldn’t be an issue since clicks/taps on labels should focus the associated textfield anyway.As always, happy to hear your thoughts.Happy UXing,Sophie.A number of people have asked about how these interactions were created in UX-App.For the following interactionThis is the associated action blockHere I’m using the If you’d like more detail then please let me know!

Master pinstriper Glen Weisgerber demonstrates the roundhand lettering technique.Photoshop is the most important and powerful program for designers and photographers that gives unlimited …Super Cool illustrationsLettering, illustartion,Are you a Big Water Spender? Start to open your eyes to how much water you consume without…I just did a rough estimate and turns out I lost $100,000. If only I hadn’t designed for free for so many years, who knows, maybe…Your one-stop flat icon warehouse. You’ll find thousands of icons, all of them free. Drag, Click, Edit, Play-around with the icon.A complete overhaul of the Carbonmade you’ve come to know and love including Themes, Stats and much more!UMake is a 3D design platform helping creatives  makers express their ideas in simple and intuitive way.Coldplay — Ink (Interactive video)Plot your own storyline through the groundbreaking animated video for Coldplay’s …’What makes the outboard motor of the future? A choice. Evinrude is changing the industry by…Seven billion people on Planet Earth, of which only 536 are lucky enough to have seen Space.Eyes In Space aspire to change this, taking every one on a personal journey to roam the cosmos.The first mobile App that influences your dreamsDesigning iOS apps can be difficult sometimes, but finding correct and up-to-date information about all of Apples’ devices shouldn’t be.We have collected a huge selection of creative mockups that will allow you to showcase your products …We’re here to help you get the experience you want. Learn about ways to protect your privacy on Facebook.Blocs is a Mac app that lets you build beautiful websites without touching a line of code.Collaboration app for UI designers and frontend developersTercih Edilen Pazarlama Geliştiricileri (PMD) arasında; Facebook Uygulamaları ve Sayfa Yönetim Araçları yetkinliklerine sahip Türkiye’deki tek ajans.Crossy Road is the endless arcade hopper you’ll never want to put down.Lionel Messi has broken Telmo Zarra’s league record of 251 goals. Here’s how he did itThe all-new Androidify app, available free from the Google Play Store, lets you take the little green Android mascot and turn it into yourself, your family, your friends… anyone! Then, share them as animated emoticons…Where does reality end and digital space begin? Projection mapping shifts the bounds of visual expression and perceptionAll the design inspiration you need. It’s like crack for designers. And good for you too!

The world of product design is becoming replete with “agile” methodologies, quickly replacing rigid “waterfall” development schedules with 2-week sprints producing “releasable” software.A common member of these agile teams is the Engineers, business analysts, and project managers love it, too. Now they have a designer who knows the project as well as they do; A designer they can task without making a formal request to their superiors.However, some aspects of this new product development environment present challenges to mentoring and training the next group of great designers.“We need an app!” is trumpeted by businesses today in much the same way web sites became “required” in years past. The market is calling for more user experience designers and is paying them more than yesterday’s web designers and graphic artists.Today’s UX designers come from many different backgrounds. Artists, graphic designers, developers, HCI-trained interaction designers, and recent college graduates are all seeing opportunity in the many “UX designer” job listings.Many of these designers bring valuable skills and expertise, but all can benefit from some mentoring to help them deal with complex design problems, new scheduling patterns, and agile team dynamics.It’s really easy to feel like the Many in-house design teams consist of a single manager and a group of designers — with equal status — assigned to separate product teams. Without having designated “senior” or “lead” designers, experienced designers on other teams may give feedback, but lack the authority to Without design leadership, where do these junior designers find mentors? What do you do if embedded designers don’t want mentors?When Peter Merholz took over as head of design at Groupon, he changed the organizational structure of their design teams. He found a gap between senior managers operating at the 10,000 ft level and “decentralized and embedded” designers on the ground at 1 to 10 feet.To fill this gap, Peter focused on hiring and placing great designers at the 100 ft level. These senior designers would become the primary point of contact for 1 to 2 projects and work with other junior designers to produce great work.These senior designers would:Peter found these “centralized partnerships” met the needs of agile teams to have dedicated designers, while also helping designers grow and achieve.I managed a small design team some years ago and struggled with one designer, for a time. I liked him and knew he had strong skills, but I often felt like he didn’t care enough about the work he produced. I wanted to manage lightly, but found myself dictating more solutions and I could tell he was miffed by our interaction.The turning point came when I discovered his “magic powers” — designing icons and interfaces. We gave him more work that utilized these core strengths and he came alive. Our team’s capacity grew and the work relationship healed.When you find good people, make sure your teams are constructed to utilize their strengths. Your work will shine and the people creating it will thrive.Don’t get stuck with the idea that you should have only experienced, senior designers on your teams. Young designers bring life and energy and a hunger to make things great.Build a culture that inspires and seasons the juniors on your team. If you’re doing your job right, many will move up to more responsible positions at different companies. Some you’ll fight tooth and nail to keep because they make you so much better. Become known for enabling confident, productive designers and your team will keep producing them.Should you adopt Peter Merholz’s model? Are there other packaged programs you can plug in to solve your problems? Remember that methodologies such as Agile and Scrum are meant to support — not replace — strong leadership and critical thinking.Look closely at your people and processes. Are your people thriving? Are your projects wowing your clients? Do you have leaders in place that inspire your teams?Answer these questions and change what you need to change. Fail fast and learn as you go. No one knows your teams like you do, so take the initiative and make sure designers on your teams get the mentoring they need. Your products will reflect that progress.Brent Schumann designs products for organizations along the Wasatch Front. His applications have helped businesses succeed and taught children to read.

This article was originally posted As a newbie to user experience (UX) design, one question bugs me the most: In my search for the answer, however, I turned from curious to frustratingly confused. It appears that UX experts can’t agree amongst themselves: 2 common definitions of UX are widely subscribed to, but each appear to describe something completely different. On the one hand, UX is described as the overall experience/perception of users; on the other, it’s described as a process.Upon deeper analysis, it became clear that the latter definition is logically flawed, and for a silly reason — an utter disregard for semantics. In other words, UX is Let me explain by first going through each definition:Here, UX is defined to be the And then there is the other popular definition of UX:UX is also at times defined as a But is this second definition simply a more concrete embodiment of the first? No, it isn’t. Because this definition is problematic: it’s answering the When UX practitioners answer the question “What is UX?” with “It’s a process”, what they’re really addressing isn’t what UX is, but Just think about it:The answer clearly doesn’t address the question. But look what happens when you tweak the question:This, then, is the problem: UX practitioners who claim that UX is a process, actually mean to say that the Because when UX practitioners use the terms “UX” (which refers to the thing itself) and “UX design” (which refers to the act of creating the thing) interchangeably, they show that they either don’t know what they’re talking about, or don’t care to be precise about what they say.The point is that semantics should matter — and it should matter a lot.The UX design field is still pretty nascent in many places around the world. On top of that (or maybe because of that), many universities and formal institutions don’t offer courses that teach about UX design. So to learn about UX and UX design, many of us have to refer to a scattering of resources that range from published books, to ebooks, blogs, and even online courses; materials that are written by experienced UX folks, that are targeted at the less experienced ones.The responsibility, thus, lies with the authors of such materials to articulate themselves in a precise manner. To — as starters — not treat related terms as though they’re synonymous. Because failing to do so not only (ironically) turns these resources into hurdles that confuse new UX designers, but also makes UX design seem like a fluffy profession to outsiders — one that discards clarity for artistic expression; one that, consequently, shouldn’t be taken too seriously.The nebulous nature of UX doesn’t give practitioners an excuse to muddle up terms; in fact, it calls for an even higher level of precision in the expression of ideas and thoughts. Only then can we build up a robust body of knowledge that can be passed down, inspected, scrutinised, and — indeed — improved upon.Semantics matter.So let’s stop saying that UX is a process, because it really isn’t.Notes:Aspiring UX designer working in a SaaS startup in Singapore. I do some JS coding too. a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

A few months ago I saw one of my favorite DJs, I was inspired to pen this in part by Many common computing tasks we perform on a daily basis are not easy and straightforward. Yet, the best user experiences are those that In the case of buying tickets, the most fluid experience (with current consumer technology) might go like this:Ideally this would take less than 30 seconds. Can you believe that it took me about 5 minutes?When it comes to user experience, generally, less is more:I navigated through 4 different websites and a total of 12 screens from beginning to end:Moving through all these screens is taxing and bad for business. It introduces the possibility that I might not actually purchase because the process is circuitous. It’s well documented how e-commerce sites Buying tickets affects me initially, but it has implications for the artist, venue and organizer too. If I get stuck and give up, everyone loses. But if I do make it through, and the experience is unpleasant, this might subliminally affect how I feel about the artist or venue.Most of the time when people use the Internet, From the start (my Google search), there was no clear way to buy a ticket, so I fell back on my ability to navigate through web pages.There were cases where a sites It’s worth noting that I consider myself a fairly advanced computer user, and have prior experience with these sites. Some of my analysis comes from thinking on behalf of less experienced users, and the problems they might encounter.You’ve probably done one of these before.I’ve used SoundCloud before and knew that it supports listing Songkick tour dates on profiles, so I chose that result.However, another user without my prior knowledge may have tried a different link. As it turns out the only other viable option shown here was Facebook, whose “Tour Dates” link was hidden away in a menu. Twitter and Bandcamp were dead-ends if you wanted a link to show dates and/or tickets.Looking back, I may have had more success by Googling something more specific, like “STWO tickets”. On the other hand, I’m wondering if a result to the ticketing site could have shown up Because I know what Songkick is and can recognize their logo, it only took a few seconds for me to pick out where I needed to click on this page to move forward.However, for someone without this knowledge, this screen doesn’t present information in a way that makes it easy to find tickets. The Songkick section should be afforded more visual weight since it can convert listeners into paying fans.I initially gravitated to the “Upcoming concerts” header, and I clicked the “Buy tickets” button in this area. This link took me to the particular event’s Songkick page, not the Eventbrite page which — unbeknownst to me at the time—created an extra step in the process.I didn’t catch this at the time, but Songkick recognized that there was a show near my location and presented the “Tickets on sale near you” section, — very thoughtful! I retraced my steps later and learned that the “Buy tickets” Notice how the copy on the button I chose is misleading—it should say something like “See the event page” since that’s where it actually leads. There should have been a clear distinction between choosing to buy tickets and choosing to view a particular event’s page.Also, I think the “Tickets on sale near you” section should be styled to stand out more since it’s presenting uniquely relevant information. This could be done with a different background color, a colored border, a larger header, etc. It definitely would have improved my chances of noticing it.☺Here, my choice was easy: one green CTA button in plain sight (you know, green means GO).I thought: “Cool, another easy one”. I scrolled down the page, clicked the drop down, selected 1 ticket, and clicked the “Order Now” button.Here’s where I got tripped up.I saw all the input fields prompting me for my information and froze. I thought: “Wait—doesn’t Eventbrite save your information so you don’t need to enter it every time?”After a few seconds I figured I was Looking back, I got stuck here because I didn’t notice I was logged out on the initial order page — I was too focused on picking out my ticket and moving along.Still, I have to wonder—why wasn’t there a log in prompt near the “Order now” button? Or above the information fields on the finalize order page? This would have created a choice: either log in now, or fill out the entire form.I imagine Eventbrite stands to gain valuable information about what events people are into, and would encourage users to buy tickets when they’re logged in. I’m unsure why the navigation bar wasn’t showing my login state.Meanwhile, a timer was counting down to when my tickets would become unavailable, so I opened a new browser tab.Ah, there we go—a familiar pattern☺. I clicked the log in prompt on the right side of the navigation.You know the drill.After logging in I was redirected to the home page. I closed the tab.I refreshed the page and found everything filled out for me, as I had hoped. However, the navigation bar still didn’t indicate my login state.I clicked “Pay Now” and……got my order confirmation.Clearly, there are things As the major player in Search, I see this as an opportunity for Google. It seems like they’re heading in that direction with Google Now, but I can’t predict how difficult it would be to source links to the ticketing pages for nearby, upcoming concerts related to a search (or if this feature is even a priority).Even if it’s not their fault, a lot of people will blame themselves when they get stuck on a computing task — which is unfortunate. My hope is that more people will start asking questions when they’re using software: “Why does it work that way? Why is it not like Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

For much of my career I’ve worn the label of a “Creative”. To many colleagues, what I did was akin to wizardry. I toiled behind the curtain in isolation, sustained by coffee and the spectre of an impending design review.My process was self-realized, attuned to my idiosyncratic work habits, driven by perfectionism. When the time came to present my mock-ups for a stakeholder review, my hands were clammy, my chest was thumping. Because, after all, I put Fast forward a few years and, well, I’m in a much different place. As a User Experience Designer at FreshBooks, my design process is no longer a black box. I’ve moved from a regimen of quiet perfectionism to one that’s collaborative and iterative.My transition wasn’t immediate, just as it wasn’t for FreshBooks when they But it’s worked out well. Turns out that Lean UX builds on my natural strengths, and as a result I’m a happier, more productive Designer. I no longer feel the anxiety of huge unveilings or the disappointment of seeing my week’s worth of effort, blown to smithereens.So, could Lean UX be a perfect fit for you too?Perhaps your team is transitioning to Lean UX, or you’re thinking of In the SaaS (Software as a Service) industry, you’re doomed if you don’t keep moving — your product is never perfect, and there are always problems to solve. Designers need to help define and solve those problems.At FreshBooks, designers lead a weekly group sketching session that we call a At a charrette, no idea is a bad idea — the aim is to get the group thinking and talking, while ensuring you’re solving the right problem. The most plausible ideas are then prototyped and tested with real users later in the week.This means a new problem to chew on If all goes according to plan, the outcome of a charrette should be a bunch of ideas, ready to prove wrong. Which is This process can be brutal if you hold your ideas too close to your heart. It’s tough to see your favourite idea fail in a user test, and get sent back to the drawing board. But it’s necessary. Besides, by testing every week, your ideas are only three days old. There’s simply not enough If you accept that it’s not you, but your idea that’s in the cross-hairs, you’re better able to let go and start working out a better solution.With Lean UX, communication with the team is essential. At FreshBooks, we keep everyone on the team aligned by scheduling weekly Here, the designer is counted on to clearly communicate the progress of their work. What assumptions were made going into testing? What failed? What worked? What are the next steps?A designer that is able to communicate complex problems in a way that is digestible and actionable is key to an effective circle meeting.At FreshBooks, designers aren’t tucked away in the corner. They’re spread throughout the company in teams made up of roles that span product directors to developers to copywriters.Through charrettes and circles, each member of your team is able to contribute to the design process. This is great for you, as it deepens the available pool of knowledge and insights while ensuring issues are caught early in a project, well before it’s too late.It’s also a fantastic opportunity to learn. A designer that enjoys working closely with the team soon develops a far better understanding of the technologies, strategies and communication behind the product.Like the weather, some things you just can’t control. While the Lean UX process ensures a tight schedule of ideation and testing, it also affords for a huge degree of flexibility. Things change. Projects pivot. Often, on a weekly basis. You have to roll with it.If you’re the type that not only embraces, but advocates change, you’ll do well in a process where no idea is sacred, and where iteration is essential for innovation.Back when I still thought of myself as a “Creative”, I was wary of too much process, and concerned that a regimented schedule would stop the magic. I sure didn’t see myself leading the charge at a charrette, or conducting weekly user tests to prove my ideas Now, however, I can’t imagine designing any other way. It’s been a great fit. Not only has Lean UX made me a stronger designer, it’s also made me a better teammate and a consistent contributor to our product.Suffice it to say, I’ve emerged from behind the curtain, and I’m never going back. If you see yourself in any of the traits above, you may soon feel the same way.Kiley Meehan is a UX Designer @ FreshBooksProduct, Design, and Development at FreshBooksProduct, Design, and Development at FreshBooks

Candyfloss is fluffy, sweet and predictable. It’s pleasant, not particularly good for you, but it’s pleasant all the same. The novelty of candyfloss is that it’s a treat. You wouldn’t eat it all the time (unless you wanted to line your dentist’s pockets).Now, imagine if all you could eat was candyfloss. You’d probably object to that. It’s not good for your health, it’s nutritionally null and the fact that you can get it in so many colors… is a little bit scary.With the rise of SaaS and “….everyone started doing the same thing.Like the majority of Once everyone starts doing it, it’s nothing special. It’s the standard. When expectations are set, this becomes the MINIMUM required to even exist in the industry (or to at least stay competitive).But if you’re not looking for new opportunities to create awesome UX (rather than merely optimising what already exists) then you’ll never be ‘fluffy’ again.Your users aren’t going to talk lovingly and longingly about you, because you didn’t introduce them to something new and exciting. Instead, you’re just another candyfloss supplier.Ever tried to eat a bag of candyfloss in a single sitting? It might’ve been possible the first time, but once you’ve realised what you’ve done (a grievous mistake) it never happens again.They call it the But is it really that secret?In marketing the Admittedly it’s a bit chicken and egg (no-one really knows who started this trend) but it’s far too common. Don’t be that website that your customer is ‘de-sensitized’ to, be more than that and people will talk.UX needs an element of predictability. Users shouldn’t be shocked by what happens next, but there’s a happy medium between We’ve touched on this, but UX expectations are set by the best experience a user’s received to date. Your goal shouldn’t be to meet those expectations. That’s not how you make your mark, instead you should blow them away and set the new standard. Be brave and deviate from the pack.If you’re already a Slack user, poke around the website again or join another channel or two, it’ll show you what I mean*. If you’re not one of Slack’s 1.1 million users, sign up today, have a nosey and compare it to any of the above sites mentioned. You’ll notice it’s ‘different’.Admittedly, not everyone’s going to have the same jaded views as me (especially when it comes to candyfloss). But as a marketer, innovation excites me and awesome UX keeps me engaged and on board.Although ironically, all of the above tools, I do actually use (despite describing them as candyfloss UX). But that’s just it, I expect things to be this way and that’s bad. You haven’t excited me and if Im not excited, you’ll have to work harder to sell something to me.So what does that show? Well…either I really like to complain about things, or persona marketing is worth its weight in gold.But that’s for another time and until then, I’ll be on the hunt for candyfloss.Fancy keeping in touch? Follow me on Twitter: Marketing Director — 

The process of user experience design for any mobile application is a very responsible stage on the way to the final product, which will satisfy the user. In our previous articles we have already mentioned that UX process is the basis for successful UI as it develops the whole logic of the application, makes possible to think over the efficient transitions and layout as well as consider all the ways to make user experience as positive as possible.The important way to check out and test all the solutions made on the stage of UX design is prototyping. Here in The original concept behind the term ‘prototype’ is the sample model of the product that gives the ability to test it and see if the solutions and decisions made about the product are efficient. Prototypes should not be seen as the analogue of the final product as they aren’t those. Their main aim is to enable a designer, a customer and a user to check the correctness and appropriateness of the design solutions.The value of prototypes in the sphere of app and webdesign has rocketed for the last few years. Actually, it is easy to explain as even the low-fidelity prototype gets the designer, customer and tester much closer to the looks and functions of the future product than the most elaborate schemes, drawings and wireframes. Certainly, that doesn’t mean that schemes and wireframes could be eliminated from the process as they are essential in the process of creating design solutions. However, when you want to feel their efficiency and check if nothing has been missed in the design process, prototype will be the great help.Tubik Studio motion designer So, the workflow should have such a sequence: The prototypes on UI stage are created more for presentation of application general looks than for testing and improving its functional features. And this is the trap in which it is easier to be confused. Prototyping all the details on the final stage of UI in most cases is not so reasonable as it could seem. It will be too time-consuming and in this perspective, it would be better to spend the same time on coding a demo-version. Moreover, usability should be thoroughly checked first of all at the UX stage, otherwise it would be much harder to change inefficient solution after having accomplished a lot of work on UI. Certainly, it would be amazing to create prototypes both for UX and UI, but by far not all the designers and customers agree to spend so much time on design tasks and want to test and improve the design much faster and cheaper.The first and most important role of prototype is to check and test the functionality rather than the beauty and appearance of the product. Practice shows that testing UX with prototype enables to make the stage of UI design less time and effort consuming. It’s easy to ground: if you test UX solutions with prototype, you are able to reveal and fix the basic bugs and problems before you start working on UI tasks. If you don’t, the risk to devote a lot of time to UI design which will be not so efficient and so will have to be changed is much higher. Redesign of the complete UI is more difficult and long process that testing the design at UX stage with a simple prototype.The simplest prototypes have been the paper ones and even they are highly efficient in understanding the main concept of layout elements and transitions. Nowadays, the variety of different tools and services for digital prototypes is incredible and gives designers the opportunity to choose those, which are more appropriate for their work and task. They really improve matters in the process of design, especially in the sphere of app design as the modern tools of prototyping create the prototypes very close to native apps and therefore user experience can be tested deeper and closer to reality.It provides the wide range of functions to create efficient prototypes, which are animated and look very close to the native apps. Pixate was one of the pioneers adding native animation to make prototypes more efficient.Pixate has a clear and simple functional scheme and layout that doesn’t require a lot of time and effort from the designer to study how to create a prototype. This is a very important trait for such a tool as most designers highly appreciate any opportunity to save their time when possible and use the tools which are clear, intuitive, fast and highly efficient.Pixate can also be described as a flexible tool whose features provide various opportunities to present the content in the created prototype. Moreover, Pixate allows separating layers and embedding interactions such as Tap, Double Tap, Drag, Scroll, Pinch and others. No need to say, how happy the designer can be to use all this things creating the prototype close to real product.As the functional potential of the tool is very close to real app appearance in presentation of UX solutions, it makes the process of testing UX quick and easy. You can initially customize the prototype to your target device.It is not a secret that in UX design process attention to details and thinking-out the ideas to make operation of the app easy and pleasant for the user are essential. Prototype made with Pixate on this stage gives the chance of testing all the elements of layout and the process of screen transitions. Sometimes, the smallest details, which are missed in the general scheme of app design, cannot be revealed from the wireframes easily, but are easily seen in the process of testing the prototype. So, prototype provides the prompts to the designer and allows feeling the real experience of transitions, using buttons, understanding the propriety of all the elements placement in the layout and the role of every element in real experience.Summing up, by example of work with Pixate, we can conclude upon the basic benefits of prototypes.All the mentioned features are highly valuable especially for the customers who are non-designers and have never had experience of working with wireframes and understanding UX-schemes and flows.In our next articles we will share the practical workshop on all the flow of prototype creation and also will tell you about other efficient tools helping designers to improve their work and make both customers and users happy.We are a comprehensive team of designers specializing in mobile/web interfaces, UI/UX, icons, logos and branding. We don’t look for solutions. We create them.

Want people to choose the stairs over the escalator? Make the stairs fun. How do you make stairs fun? Turn the steps into a piano. Right?If you want repeatable results, maybe not.This video from 2009 has been viewed over 21 million times, and for good reason. It’s fun. It’s novel. The video claims that “66% more people than normal chose the stairs over the elevator.” Co-workers and professors use it to ask, “How can we make our systems more engaging and effective?” That is a great question to ask and this video does a great job of putting the question on people’s minds. This video, however, is not the best example of both engaging and effective.Why? This is an ad, not a case study. This video was part of a brilliant marketing campaign by Volkswagen called People loved the video and shared it. Success for Volkswagen. Was it a success for Stockholm and its push to encourage people to use the stairs?No. The piano stairs aren’t there anymore, and they haven’t been there for years. The brilliant design has inspired replicas in malls around the world, and you can even What design to encourage people to use the stairs has stood the test of time? Painting encouragement onto the steps.These designs are far less fun and exciting than the piano stairs, but they can stand the test of time — the results are repeatable. The piano stairs are great the first time, but get old quickly. The painted steps can reinforce the choice to take the stairs every time a person uses them.The big principles at work here are The motivational steps can suffer from habituation as people stop noticing the words, but they offer something more than novelty. The motivational steps offer to change the way people view the world, which keeps its value even after the novelty wears off.Novelties can shift someone’s attention, but creations, inventions, and innovations can shift an industry.When something is merely novel, the first time people see it they are interested, and the second time they see it they don’t care. When something is useful, people are less excited the second time they interact with it, but they care about it and would be upset to lose it. Novelty can help a good idea get noticed in a busy world, but an idea must be useful and repeatable to succeed.As a UX designer seeking to create long-term value, consider novel ideas as well as tried-and-true classics.Let’s imagine you are designing the new remote and screen interface for a TV. Which of these should you prioritize?I would argue that usefulness is the priority and nothing should trump it. Beauty is necessary and boring designs should be rejected or revised until they are beautiful. If an input isn’t intuitive, there should be an overwhelming reason why, as well as an intuitive way to discover how to use the input. Fun should be added in whenever it doesn’t get in the way of usefulness (as long as “fun” is part of the product’s brand and positioning). If any of this happens to be novel, that’s fine, but novelty should only be a byproduct. If the design borrows from classics and doesn’t break any new ground, but is effective, beautiful, intuitive, and fun, then it is a great design.This picture isn’t here to pick on Apple but to highlight that our culture prizes the novel above nearly all else. “New” gives the marketing and sales teams something to talk about, but the product management and design teams should spend more time thinking about the customer than monitoring competitive press releases. Real problem solving comes from studying the customer’s problems, environment, and mental models, and creating solutions that don’t care about novelty.Designers at IDEO sought to tackle the problem of dreading Mondays. Their solution would need to be something with more than just novelty appeal so people would use it every week. One of the four products they created asked, “could we turn the tables on Monday and design it to be something that brings you joy instead of dread?” Their solution was This product strikes a balance between novelty and repeatability. Its different enough that when people hear about it, they take notice, investigate further, and perhaps buy the product. The product, however, doesn’t rely on novelty to be effective and works best when it becomes part of a long-term routine. This meets both the business needs and user needs.Let’s wrap up by going back to the piano stairs. Are they fun and a brilliant idea? 21 million views and copycats in tourist locations around the world would suggest an emphatic yes. Are they effective at getting people to use the stairs at a commuter subway stop for the long-term? Let’s install one in my hometown of Boston and I’ll let you know! It may not get me to use the stairs every time, but it would fun every now and then.Innovation strategist and UX designer by day. Human Factors student by night. 

Culture is important to us at Shopify. We work hard to build strong relationships with our teams, and create opportunities for people to learn, grow, and of course relax and enjoy the sweet things in life.We have an amazing UX team of over 120 designers, content strategists, front-end developers, and user researchers, and it’s about time we start sharing what we’re doing.That’s why we’re launching Take a look at what we’re saying on We live by our core values at Shopify. Come check out what’s Building awesome things is fun, you should join us. See the roles we’re actively recruiting at And feel free to reach out, even if you don’t see the perfect position for you. We’re always looking for amazing people and we love a good chat.If designing products is your jam, reach out to me on Design Lead @ Shopify. Formerly at Mobify (no relation). Mason jar modifier.A collection of musings from the UX practitioners at Shopify.

This is my 2nd story on Medium and mainly I want to share with you how I finally came up with UX strategy document. For now I only have structure and this article is for entry level UX designer such as me.Couple weeks ago, I got a task assigned to me for creating UX strategy. To be honest, it was very abstract for me. My background is actually more like a visual designer, I had some experiences on create wireframe, prototype and of course, usability testing. As everyone will do, I went on google and search keyword with “UX strategy”+ “template”+”method”+”how to”…etc. I even went on slideshare to see others’ examples. There was at least 3 days of just searching other people’s idea, methodology. After all these, I kinda get the idea, but how, I was not so sure.I started breakdown few buckets from what I read and found, here is the chart. I love using chart or diagram, it really helps you form the ideas to a plan.As shown above, there are 7 main buckets we should look at.I will skip about the rest of 2 buckets for now. After I drafted down this chart and our awesome development director gave me some great inputs. One of points has said it all; It’s also very important to share this document with your dev. team so everyone has clear picture, you should consider this document is central information hub of creating the product for However, I might be wrong and I’m still learning. Since I spent lots of time looking for how other people will do, and if there is template out there. My director also helped me to search more info. I’d like to share what the document tree looks like at this point. I’m sure that I will need to update from time to time, but I hope you will find this helpful.Oh, I forgot to mention “If you have any question regarding the document, please write your question in the comment. I hope you find this article useful.Thanks for reading!UI/UX Designer, I hang out on the web and sleep with beautiful design. [ Never stop making cool things ]

Simply put you’re meant to be the CEO of the product, RIGHT? Measuring yourself against the success of the product, ensuring the release of the right feature at the right time, maximising on the market and taking responsibility for executing a winning product!Perhaps in large organisations this level of detail is required? Perhaps in small organisations this level of detail is required?I remember seeing this image, in fact I tweeted it out as is resonated with my thought process at the time, but now I feel the relationship between Product and UX is more harmonious, more joined up and in some cases the same thing. Of course, I am only talking about digital product management, the beautifully thought provoking but incredibly insightful However, for me I feel each requirement should have more ownership over the product, take more responsibility in terms of product success. The venn diagram should show smaller boundaries between each initiative. Successful product deployment is about running a successful cross functional team, which means the PM role should also be extremely cross functional.The scrum framework is built on having a cross functional team, it Get the right balance of skills and you don’t always need to put titles on people.Together you’re building the product or feature or iteration etc, titles in this instance are irrelevant, as long as the team understands the main goals and objectives.This post is mainly trying to remove the need to insist on titles and show that it doesn’t matter if you’re employed as a UX designer, a product designer, a product manager or a product owner the main goal is to:Interested in how #software, people and things all connect via #technology. CTO for 

The San Francisco chapter of Ladies that UX hosted a panel discussion last Thursday. In attendance were I was at the 78 minute long panel discussion which was jam packed with career advice, laughter, stories and motivational statements that I’m sure everyone in attendance found inspiring.In total there were around eight questions asked, which are outlined below. Each question was answered by the four panelists. Here’s a quick legend of the initials I’ll be using for each of the panelists’ responses:I drew a Sketch note summarizing the main points for quick reference, but I urge you to read the whole thing. There’s a lot of good stuff!Very strong hierarchical cultures I found are very male dominated and very difficult for me in particular to deal with. My career has definitely been impacted by me identifying early on that I really struggled in those kinds of environments. Instead I started to find environments that felt more comfortable to me and conducive to the kind of work and collaboration I would like to be doing. I’m at a 45 person company with not much hierarchy and that feels right for me.When I was a Lead Interaction Designer my role changed into evangelizing for design. The power of design, what it could be. It’s not just about let’s make things pretty, it’s not the look and feel. It’s about how it behaves and the impact it has on the end user. So if a company doesn’t understand that, I don’t want to waste my time. Then I won’t be doing design work, I’ll be evangelizing for design. And you’ll be surprised how many companies claim to understand design. Really? Do you see the place you want me to work in?Design is objective. We have an end goal and we’re going to use all our of tools to get to that end goal, to help the company win that market.It really comes down to the design manager. They should be evangelizing for design on the executive team, to remove all the dumb obstacles. Marketing needs to understand design too. We can’t design a product if experience is different from the communication message. If I can work on a team where I can control all of that experience, and it’s consistent, that’s a community and environment I want to be in. Otherwise, don’t waste my time.Once you can prove yourself and show the value of design, doing user research, iterating on the design and showing them “Wow, we started off here and we found out this from users, and changed it here and now it’s successful.” By going to Marketing and going to Operations and going to Sales, and asking them what they’re trying to achieve. Tell me more about that! I want to understand that. And then telling them the story of how the work I’m doing can help them achieve their goals. And then it’s not a fight anymore. It’s more like “Oh wow, you get it. You’re listening to me.” You need to treat everybody like your customer.We want to go out and map landscape and help people make sense of it. And, that’s a really amazing skill. It’s a humble activity. It should be and it ought to be. Because we’re enabling something new to happen. Clarity to be gained.I’ll tell a specific story about a friend who won a design award for Google because of the product she worked on in which she implemented Material Design. And she lead that whole process and design but they hired a person who was going to be the Android Design leader. And it’s a man. And so her company had won an award and Google wanted to award them on stage. But her boss had told her it’s up to you and him to decide who’s going on stage to accept it. And she naively goes into it and she’s like, let’s be diplomatic and talk about who should get this award. So she says to the guy, “Hey, I think you did a great job and as the Android Design Leader, you should get the reward.” And he goes “Yeah, okay, thanks. I agree.”I also build allies in the men around me, who end up supporting me. I don’t have to brag about my own talents. I have other people promoting me within the community.1. You are an amazing treasure. You have goods to give, talents and skills you don’t even know yet.2. When you aren’t feeling great, a way to manifest personal power is to imagine a garment, which can be anything, armor, a fur coat, a cape or an amazing dress, or just light. Figure out what that is, and when you aren’t feeling great, just put that on.I realized that the power of persuasion is really, really important in getting people to buy in to your user research and getting them to actually follow through with it. Question 3: It’s understanding what the goal is and identifying what the raw materials are and using those raw materials to get to the end goal. It’s not “Don’t plan.” You want to hone in and foster your ambition and know in your gut that if you’re not happy, you know it. Just keep exploring and having conversations with people. When is the time when you’re doing something that you lose track of time? When you’re really enjoying yourself? And it can be because you love cycling, because you like to be out in the harbor.Don’t use that mental process of “Well, the pay is really good. And I don’t know, I shouldn’t leave this until I have some thing else lined up.” Build and leverage your networks. The most amazing things happen just out of random conversations.One of my values is also giving back to the community, creating opportunities for other people. I get a really big high from getting one of my friends a job, or someone an opportunity that they otherwise didn’t know how to get. I’m like “Don’t worry. Let’s leverage your existing skill set to tell a story that will help you get to where you want to be.” And once I teach them I don’t want them to do anything for me, just show this exact same thing to someone else.I follow my interests and passions to see where I land. I love people and I love making genuine human connections offline. I don’t really contribute much to online. I do make friendships online but then I quickly move them offline to build that human connection. This is another value for me.The surprise is I never thought I’d be inside of big corporate as a middle manager. I have this long history that I feel like I’ve been surfing this wave and been able to catch other, interesting waves. I like to provide the space for people to make good things, have a good experience and benefit. Then they pay a lot more attention to me. So I get to overcome a stereotype very quickly and be in higher regard.There’s most interest and dimension such as ethics, privacy and data. It’s a lot more interesting than it was 20 years ago.(MJ then recommended reading this Go to the VCs that fund these startups. Go to their happy hours. They’re constantly looking for new talent.As I was walking to BART after the event, I realized how excited I am about my profession. MJ’s perspective on how designers are explorers and cartographers of the world offered a very fresh way to approach my work. Shahrzad’s insanely confident way of confronting sexism gave me a template for my own potential future encounters. Melanie’s insight on gauging a company’s perception of design is something I’ll remember when going on interviews. And Eileen’s emphasis on empathy, not just with your users but within your own workplace, is something I’ll carry with me to my next job.It was motivational to hear such powerful, intelligent women speak and it’s driven me to work even harder.product designer

This post is the revisitied version of an article I published earlier this week which This article intend to explain some principles of UX design through an objective review and redesign of the freshly released Ello iOS application.To analyze a mobile application navigation is probably my favorite thing to do when I download a new mobile app. The navigation and hierarchy are the core of a product.Eight years have passed since the first iPhone entered our life, the rise of mobile touch-device. Many navigation patterns has been invented and tried out.Google Now, Apple ProActive, Cortana, Hound, Vurb, smartwatches.I believe that now, more than ever, we need to carefully design the global navigation of our product. To ease the user experience. To bring the most needed piece of information or interaction at the best timing possible. Users will get more and more used to launch their phone and instantly accessing what they need. Without having to think about the interface.The main screen of Ello’s app displays 9 navigation buttons.It is very confusing to use two global navigation patterns in one app, it implies a lot of features and a new complicated model to learn. Everytime a user discover a new application, he has to learn a all new world and language.I did not understand at first, why there is a drawer menu while all the main pages of the application were already on the bottom Nav-bar. It turned out that it is actually what looks like an “About section”.When you click on most of the item in the list, it opens their website page in Safari, forcing the users to leave the application. This could have been prevented with a simple native webview.Now, Ello really insists on its concept and Manifesto. So it makes sense that they want to have a direct access to it from the main page. But the way it is executed is strange to me. It adds complexity to the home page, while what a user want to do on the main feed of a social network is to focus on content.We usually place this section in the profile page with a gear icon inside the top Nav-bar, linked with the preferences. Because this is supposed to be secondary information.But here, on Ello the top right action in the Nav-bar stays the same in every page, the search button while the left one disappears. Including in the profile one. Which feels odd to me.In a lot of apps, the Nav-bar brings some context to the page while the Tab-bar is about the whole app. Adding Search next to the username, in a profile page, implicitly says that I will be able to search Context is important because your navigation is supposed to be a guide through your product to the user. Feed is not directly linked to About and Profile to Search. Especially on a small mobile screen, we need to display the main piece of information, according to what a user will have to do there.Of course, those are details, and (hopefully), no one will ever die from a misplaced about section. It just brings confusion to the overall experience.I did not instantly understand why the bottom Nav-bar felt weird to me. But then I realised.Analyzing tons and tons of app, you start realizing there are some patterns everyone is following. Some are initiated by the OS builders, others comes from the famous apps.Most of them make a certain logic. We display the home button on the left. Why? Because we read from left to right, so the first page we want our user to see is the home, on the left.Here, the home button is in the middle, and it feels strange that the first active page when I open the app is the third pagination.We are now used to have the main call to action button in the center of our tab bar, with a different color or with a filled circle reminding a button.Designers told me that it is for symmetry aesthetics. Also, it is very commonly used for photo-sharing apps and remind the actual button of a camera.The problem on Ello is that the icon placed in the middle of the Nav-bar is the HomeFeed, represented with a filled circle. Which can be very confusing.They decided to put the principal action at the complete end of the bar.There is basically to two types of user on a social network :The viewers cannot view if there are no creators, the creators do not want to create if there are no viewers (this is called the chicken  egg problem).So an attractive action button is a big need on a social network, even more on mobile, because users If we analyze the button here, it looks hidden at the end of the Tab bar, and the icon does not really remind me of “Post action”.Moreover, what feels strange to me is that the post action is desynchronized from the newsfeed. While the action is directly linked to the newsfeed.Facebook call to action is very interesting. When you open the app, on top of your Newsfeed, directly in the timeline, is a small area. Looking like a “Post placeholder” with your head in it, asking : “What’s on your mind?”. What I like here is that the Call to Action looks like an actual post, in your timeline. It encourages the user and gives him an idea of what his action will look like, once done.My first step when I design a navigation experience, is to list all the pages and features, starting with the most important one.On Ello, we have :I am not trying to reinvent the wheel here, I think that using a basic social network navigation such as Facebook, Path, Twitter, Instagram, Swarm, etc. Would work very well.Now, about the Call to action Post button, there are several solution. Personally, I like to have the action as part of the Tab-Bar. Mainly because I think that posting from a mobile product deserve to have its whole page.The search feature is now completely part of the discover page. This way, we empty the top Nav-bar.The same way, the about is going to the profile.And finally, because we want to encourage the user to post, I added a post zone at the very top of the feed, like on Facebook.My infoContact me at : Product Designer Service / UX / UI / Interaction ● 

Travelling is awesome. Being single in my mid-twenties with a job that mostly requires a stable internet connection, allows me to occasionally board trains and planes and visit distant places I haven’t been to before.Whenever I arrive at a new city I rather avoid the classic touristic hotspots and dive right into the scene. I want to find a good place to grab a coffee, eat something delicious, befriend some locals and learn about their lifes.To me this approach is a lot more satisfying than checking off touristic attractions or taking a sightseeing tour atop an overcrowded bus.I’m there to get enriching perspectives, authentic experiences, unexpected adventures - I want to see the cities I visit through the eyes of a resident. Call my travelling persona “The average travel guide (no matter if in print or as a web or mobile app) is bulky, has over fifteen categories and is focused around events and locations. This is great if you like to create one of those sightseeing checklists, but way to overblown for a spontaneous traveler looking for a rough direction to explore.Yesterday I was preparing a welcome mail for two of our The image above shows colorful indicators of possible activities on a map of Vienna. It gives you an idea of where you will find an overproportional density of good food, great shops or booze.This creation doesn’t tell you where you should specifically go, it just shows you in what general direction you will definitely get the experience you are looking for.Most modern product redesigns are simplifications of the same functionality. New conventions and gestures allow us to hide more and more content from the user improving focus and removing busyness.Knowing real world user behaviour gives you superpowers to create amazing UX. People tend to approach users only from the context of Simple questions like “How would they do it offline?” or “What are they really trying solve with this function?” are great additional perspectives when being stuck with mockups and feature requests.My current drawing would work a lot better as a map overlay on Google Maps. Unfortunately clicking the coordinates together in the After submitting your take on a region the modal of all submissions would result in the official overlay, creating a crowdsourced City Activity Heatmap that everybody could use and that would be easy to maintain.The biggest advantage is the time it takes to contribute to a guide like this. A local can draw up a heatmap like the one above What are your thoughts on the City Activity Heatmap? Does this fit your travelling style? Let me know by tweeting to CEO and Co-Founder of 

We recently launched We’re definitely learning a lot as we expand our suite of products. Our goal is to not only ensure that each product is fantastic to use, but also to make the experience consistent across products. This is important because our products are designed from the ground up to work together and to be used with each other.Let’s see how we accomplished this for Zoho Inventory.In my previous article about Zoho Inventory, on first glance, looks a lot like Zoho Books. That’s because we designed it that way. We used the same basic design skeleton and built upwards from there. This design style persists across many of our products: This uniform design provides a level of UX and visual consistency across products that you simply will not find when you integrate independent solutions from different providers.The very first thing we needed to do was to ask the key question: What problems are we trying to solve? For Zoho Inventory, the entire inventory and order management process is centered around managing sales orders and purchase orders.There’s a lot of complexity here. For example, sales orders contain The seller needs to keep track of which of those items have been invoiced, which have been paid for, and which have been shipped. Multiple items are often placed into a single package, while there are also orders with multiple packages for different sets of items. All of these things need to be tracked.Before we started designing the UX to solve these problems, we first needed deeper insights into how business owners and inventory managers approached these problems in the real world.You can’t build a great car without knowing how to drive.Similarly, you can’t build a great user experience without knowing exactly what users want.You need to get all that background information long before you start putting pen to paper (or cursor to screen). Only then will you be actually designing something that’s nice to use and allows the user to get things done as quickly as possible.Luckily, we had all the background information we needed before we started designing the interface for Zoho Inventory. We’ve been running Zoho Books and Zoho CRM for many years, and Here’s just one example of a customer asking for an inventory management solution on our forums over 4 years ago. We’ve gotten hundreds of such requests over the years.These requests provided a treasure trove of information.We got a peek directly into hundreds of real-world scenarios and problems that needed solving by a dedicated inventory management solution. All this experience meant that we had a very good idea of what kind of software that our users would like before we even started the design process.Plus, The feedback was golden.We’d never have gotten these insights by working on the UX using only internal feedback from design and management. You need user feedback to design a great user experience.We’ve seen that The goal with designing the interface was to This process starts with designing an information architecture — this is basically a representation of all information that needs to be tracked by the user, and how it should be organized hierarchically.For order management, this is the basic information that the user has to track:It’s pretty simple, but this is the essence of the information architecture, and it’s a good illustration of the complexity and the infinite number of use cases that the user will have to handle.For example, a sales order can have ten different items, and these items are packaged into three different packages (taking weight into account) and one invoice is issued for one package while another invoice is issued for the other two packages. And there will be lots of different sales orders with very different configurations. The final interface should allow the user to handle and take action on all of this information.Putting together a complete wireframe was important because there can be a lot of things to think about, a lot of individual use cases to solve for. With the information architecture in place, we put together a wireframe that allowed easy access to all relevant information in a sales order, and any action you need to take can be done right from within this interface.Visual design is exceedingly important to a product’s success. Why? First impressions matter. Studies have shown that users form opinions based on visual design in less than 50 milliseconds. Plus, A visually appealing design primes the user for good expectations even before they start using your product. Once that first impression is created, the user leans toward viewing the entire product through a positive lens.It’s important to have a consistent visual experience as well. Good design has to extend right from your website to your entire product in order to maintain that positive impression.With all this in mind, and after much experimentation, we carefully put together the above visual design for Zoho Inventory. Now, since visual design is a creative process there’s no definite set of steps to designing something that looks good. However, we decided to use basic visual design principles as guidelines to structure our process.Here are the things we took into account:While for many of our products (such as Zoho Books), we went for a pastel-style color scheme, we did something different with Zoho Inventory, going for a dark and flat color scheme that mixed elements of black and blue. This gave it a clean, professional look.We had a debate in our design team about whether to choose hollow icons or solid icons. We ended up choosing a set of hollow icons which we concluded were better for representing real-world objects such as items and packages (which inventory managers have to deal with everyday) than solid icons were.For example, the aforementioned informational complexity in each sales order had to be handled carefully by visually distinguishing each and every element. This involved subtle changes in color, font and style so that elements were distinct and separate and did not blend with each other.Inventory management software is complex. But we wanted to make it so easy to use, the user should be able to start using it and get things done even if woken up in the middle of the night.That means hand-holding the user through each and every feature, providing relevant information right when he needs it.We needed to This information has to be delivered to the user in some way. Help documentation is one way to achieve information delivery. And good support, of course, is essential for the user to get the information he needs.But there’s a detour involved there. The user has to move away from the app to get information. These things take time and a lot of tab-switching and talking and emailing.But what if there was no detour? What if you provided the user with all the information he needs exactly when he needs it? To do this, we decided to include relevant information inside the user interface.For example, the user needs help when he needs to integrate Zoho Inventory with another service. Zoho Inventory has While experienced users will know how to make these integrations work, a lot of users won’t know what is possible with these integrations. That’s why once you land on an integration page we provide a brief summary of what the integration can do.For example, consider marketplaces. With Zoho Inventory, you can integrate with eBay, Amazon, Etsy, and Shopify. There is a business advantage to selling your products on as many marketplaces as possible, but a lot of businesses don’t diversify the marketplaces on which they sell their products. This is partly because of the different nuances (and difficulty) involved with each marketplace integration.Right within Zoho Inventory, we have prominent instructions on how to integrate with each marketplace and how exactly each integration will behave. We articulate how data items (such as product and order information) in Zoho Inventory will be labeled in the marketplace and vice versa. This gives customers all the knowledge required to integrate these marketplaces with Zoho Inventory.We’re providing instructions. And while that’s nothing really new, contextually providing this information in an easily digestible manner right within the user interface is new. We had a lot of ideas but we couldn’t sneak in everything before launch. The bucket view is one major idea that is slated for release in the future — something that is truly unique to Zoho Inventory.Sometimes an overworked inventory manager simply needs the answer to the question: Where the heck are all my packages?When you order something on Amazon, at any point in time, you can know exactly where your package is. Has it been dispatched? Is it in transit? When will it be delivered?When you’re handling inventory for your company, you’ll need to answer these questions for possibly hundreds of packages that are at different stages of the order cycle.You can keep track of all this with the bucket view.This view shows you a high-level visual overview of all packages in the order cycle. Click on anything and you’ll be taken directly to the package details page for that particular package.If you’re an inventory manager who has been struggling to handle a large number of packages, your eyes are probably growing huge thinking about how much easier you could make your job if you had access to this view.Inventory management superpowers, baby!Inventory management is complex. It can be hard work. I think we successfully distilled that complexity into something that is really simple to use, and made some lives easier in the process. At the risk of sounding a little boastful, we think that’s pretty awesome.I hope you took something away from this post. Tell us what you think by leaving a comment below. And if you liked it, don’t forget to recommend it to your network!User Interface Designer at Zoho  Books : Application Design; Multiple Design Tools; Collaborative Methods; Prototyping; Icon Design  Screen Mockup

The Hilton Palacio del Rio was the official hotel for the conference, so that is where I decided to stay. After checking in at the front desk, I followed the directions to the elevator hall and when I got there, I found It threw me off for a second, but I was going to the 21st floor so I had it easy. I tapped 21 on the pad and walked to the center of the elevator hall. The doors of one of the four elevators opened, I walked in, verified that 21 was listed on the destination display and a few seconds later I walked out on my floor. Pretty smooth, huh?After dropping my bags in the room I decided to go explore the surroundings, so I went back to the elevator hall on the 21st floor, tapped the lobby button and turned around to appreciate the view while I waited. One of the elevators opened behind me and there were two people inside. Instinctively, I tried to look for an indicator of whether they were going up or down but couldn’t find one so I asked. They were going to the lobby — great! I jumped in. When I got out, I saw chaos.Over a dozen people were standing in the lobby trying to get to different floors and a member of the hotel staff was providing indications on which elevator to take. Only at that moment I realized that each elevator had a letter assigned to it, and after tapping on the floor number the touch pad would display and say a letter out loud. The only reason why I made it to my room and back to the lobby on my first ride was because I got lucky and unknowingly jumped into the right elevator. I felt stupid. I was a stupid user!Shortly after this revelation, I started seeing this type of activity in the conference’s Slack group:No, we are not jerks. As UX professionals, our brains are wired to scan the world around us and identify good user experience and bad user experience. Running into a new technology that disrupts a very old, solid paradigm and causes user confusion is simply irresistible to us.Eager to learn more about these elevators, I did some research online and found out that the Hilton uses These elevators are indeed faster and more energy-efficient than most, which are unquestionably huge benefits. So why were people so confused and frustrated at the hotel? Here is my take on that:Like with most new paradigms, there is a learning curve.In my opinion, Schindlers PORT Technology is a good idea for an office building where workers will most likely be repeating the process hundreds (or thousands) of times. They might struggle a bit during the first one or two days, but then they will learn and they will be set for as long as they work in that building. In a hotel, however, many guests are probably staying for only one or two nights. That might not be enough time for them to overcome the elevator learning curve, especially if they are not tech-savvy. As a result, these guests will experience confusion and frustration. In the case of the Hilton, the solution was to assign a staff member to provide assistance, because when technology gets confusing, there is nothing like a reliable fellow human to help us out.Working to make the world a more user-friendly place. Lead #UX consultant at a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

What’s hot in UX this weekWhen there’s an issue with a digital product, the problem is almost never one thing. It’s rarely just usability, rarely just the underlying technology, rarely just the UI design, etc. It’s almost always a combination of those things, all of which is usually the result of a larger team or organizational issue.And that larger issue is usually the fact that these folks aren’t collaborating and leveraging each other’s expertise in order to come up with the right answer — the one that delivers something valuable to users. The one that, as a result of delivering that value, helps their organization make or save money.via Open source UI components and visual style guide to create consistency and beautiful user experiences across U.S. federal government websites.How is coulda, why is shoulda. How is specifics. Why is motivation. In a world with limited resources (natural resources, time, attention, money), our questions should not be about whether something is possible or how to do it, but whether it’s worth doing it at all.We’ve seen one big trend in how startups interview UX designers: companies want to know how designers think through a problem. There are multiple ways to do this of course. You can ensure your UX portfolio demonstrates your work, and more importantly your process.“Most weeks I am ridiculed by someone for insisting on plain language — avoiding acronyms and technical language / jargon in particular. People tell me that I’m slowing the team down by making them use proper words, and that their end users or stakeholders expect them to use technical language.”With 1.5 million apps on iOS alone, and App Store discovery still broken, it’s become a challenge to stay abreast of mobile innovation. That said, the first half of 2015 was an inspiring stretch for app development, especially in a few key sectors.It’s a rookie mistake to confuse minimalism with merely “getting rid of things.” Minimalism was an artistic style decades before the Internet even existed, and its core principles still holds true on the web — always design around the content.Search isn’t the only way of finding things, and it’s not always the best way of finding things. We often forget that typing a bunch of keywords into a field isn’t always going to be the easiest way for users to find the things they’re looking for.via Brought to you by your friends at Like the links? Share the love ♥Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Let’s talk about the unsung heroes of enterprise UX: our customers. At These “customer stakeholders” give us access to their company’s users, data, work sites, and sometimes-messy processes. They get us past security, find us the right users, and are willing to talk frankly about where our products fall short. They get stuff done.How can user researchers work effectively with their customer stakeholders on site visits? Here are three tactics that have worked for me.Many of the customer stakeholders I’ve worked with have never participated in user research. That’s fine: it’s I’ve tinkered with my approach over time. I now try to map UX concepts to common business and IT vocabulary. Instead of asking to perform a contextual inquiry in a call center, for example, I’ll ask to watch agents work at their desks in order to understand whether the software is working for the call center.I also give examples of previous visits to similar customers and their benefits to build trust. If I’m working with a bank, for example, I’ll talk about how we managed confidential information and optimized designs at other financial institutions. I build confidence by being sensitive to customer needs and constraints upfront.When I test call center products for Salesforce’s What’s this document like? Well, first of all, it’s in Microsoft Word or Powerpoint, because this is a familiar format in large companies.The pitch also demonstrates that I am A Serious Person Who Means Business. A good pitch subtly telegraphs that I won’t waste the customer’s time. It explains what I want (and what it will cost) in 1–3 slides. I use a standard blue and white sales template with corporate logos to seem official. I include a lot of background information (think The document should also explicitly list the research team’s needs during the engagement. If I need to see work being done at an agent’s desk, I include that (and say why). Conference rooms, wifi, and equipment may be difficult to wrangle on the fly, so I list them in the document if I need them. I distinguish between I also get this document into my stakeholder’s hands right away. I send my documents immediately after the first meeting. Sometimes, I’ll send it during our initial phone call, so we can edit it in real time.Getting better at this one is really important to me. At Salesforce, we have a great tradition of Here’s how it can look: at the end of most of Service Cloud site visits we’ll have a wrap-up meeting with our customer stakeholder to share what we saw, ask questions, and give suggestions for configuring agent workflow. It’s really exciting to point out a small tweak that will make an admin look like a hero to her co-workers. If my team needs more time to think, I will meet with the customer team after the visit and send a slide deck of observations and recommendations.Whatever happens during a site visit, our purpose at Salesforce UX is to make the most of our time working with our customers and the Salesforce experts who use our products every day.Want to know more? For a master class in stakeholder management in private sector ethnography, please read Sam Ladner’s Mary Trombley is Senior User Researcher for Salesforce’s Service Cloud.A collection of stories, case studies, and ideas from Salesforce UX

I was recently asked why I created the Boston UX Slack Community. It was a moment of impulse, I needed some help from other people in the UX field in Boston and had no comfortable places to go. I didn’t want to “bother” the usual suspects I seek out for assistance, I was wearing out my welcome, I can tell. So I started to think about fresh meat. Can I get inspired by the freshest of the fresh, the untainted puppies of UX, the ones still with fresh breath  spice for life…and work? I think so, Yes, I think so!!I immediately started to think about how Slack has made its way into our lives and has planted roots. The roots are there and our behaviors are formed. All that’s left is leverage. I chose to leverage this new thing that seems to have the So I spent a brief bit of time creating a new Slack team account plus inviting 25 people. We are now about 75 or so, and growing. I’ve come to learn since, that there is a more populous, national, designer community out there called Designer Hangout. That seems cool, just a bit big for my Boston tastes!The Boston UX Slack Community intends to create an opportunity for UX folks in Boston who are new to the field with direct access to many local UX designers who are eager to share their knowledge and meet others in the field. If there is one strong opinion I have about design, and particularly UX Design it is this: You don’t learn the most important things in school, you learn them from experiencing them yourselves and engaging with others who have knowledge to share. You learn by sharing and teaching as well. Let’s do this!!!I am happy to share with anyone what I believe UX teachings are leaving out. Who knows, maybe I’ll write something about it on Medium. Until then, if this group sounds interesting and you are a UX Designer in Boston (or soon-to-be) then send me a note and I will invite you.I win if I make you laugh. I love dogs. I’ve had my hands (and other things) in designing  marketing stuff you likely have interacted with. = Me Happy!

Renegade UX is an experiment that aims to catalyze a sweeping transformation of the digital tools that people use every day. In this experiment, UX professionals, companies, organizations, and most importantly constituents of a problem space, are required participants. As any good experiment begins, we will acknowledge the known information in the form of the problems that we are looking to solve. Thereafter, we will make a hypothesis, define our experiment, define how to measure our data, and wrap up with a call for feedback and action.Ten problems are listed that begin to paint a picture of our situation. All together they get a bit lengthy, so just read the bold if that’s your fancy.Ten problems have been listed towards defining and understanding our current situation. There are likely more problems not listed here. The accumulation of these problems suggests that this situation of ours is a Let’s Let’s Let’s Let’s simply do everything humanly possible to make a great product for the people that we serve. Let’s go nuts, and while we’re at it, let’s get in the dirt and play with it a bit.Let’s Let’s Let’s Let’s Let’s Let’s finally Do I have you? Are you wondering how we go about making this work?Here’s how this could work. A company or organization hires a UX professional for two weeks. The company initially overviews their situation and the specific product or project of interest. The UX professional then goes renegade within the organization. This individual relentlessly pours their experience, talent, and soul into creating the most inspirational and compelling product story possible while, at the same time, analyzing the organization and people.At the end of two weeks, the UX professional delivers a user-centered product story to a core team. The story not only includes a presentation of one or more user stories through the landscape of this digital product but includes an evaluation of the organization focused towards effectively executing on the product story. This evaluation includes topics such as: structural or organizational changes necessary to effectively execute the product story, expected challenges in the execution process, and likely next steps to be taken by the organization.At this point, we should detail a bit about how we could measure the effectiveness of this experiment. Here are a some initial ideas:This experiment is a challenge for everyone. It is a challenge for organizations who are uncertain of their situation and likely limited on resources. It is a challenge for UX professionals to let go of known theory and to just act as feverishly and impractically as possible. The world does not need any more practical people when it is changing so quickly.Self-inflicted musings of a designer, dreamer, UX Architect 

Welcome to the world of the “New Smartphone User”.“Give me a break,” you say. “There’s no such thing as a “Smartphone” anymore. Practically all phones are smart. My 10 year old has an iPhone, and so does my great aunt.”You’re right. Everyone is jumping in on mobile. It’s disruptive technology that didn’t exist in “lots of people can afford it” form 5 years ago.I remember my first “smartphone”. I got it back in the day when the only “smartphones” were Palm Pilots and BlackBerrys.I worked at Verizon Wireless right out of college, and got to watch the users who came in with their “SmartPhone” devices. Most of them were middle age business women and men. They rolled up in their Mercedes’, walked in in suits, and asked us for help re-configuring their email settings.They exchanged their BlackBerry pins at meetings and had inappropriate conversations while looking extremely hard at work. The “Smartphone” wasn’t cool, it wasn’t helpful for the average user, it was a business tool.Then a shift started to happen. Folks began to text like crazy on their flip phones. Parents were coming in to our store waving their cell phone bills around screaming bloody murder at us because they had $1200.00 in charges from their teenagers going WAY over the 250 text limit. (Once a dad even ripped a phone off the wall and thew it at us. People get REALLY fired up when it comes to their cellular devices and bills.)The phone manufacturers realized that it would be easier to text on a qwerty than it was on a regular flip cell, so out came phones like the LG EnV. It was a huge seller. It was still a “Flip” but a long skinny one, that flipped open to reveal a full keyboard in all of it’s teenage text loving glory.The the Moto Sidekick joined the fun too. You could slide the screen up to reveal a keyboard. It was new, it was exciting, and it was incredibly disruptive to the mobile industry.Kids would come into our store, and it was like a ray of light was shining down from heaven on those devices. The gateway to general population smartphone usage was beginning to open.Then entered the very first iPhone. And nothing in the mobile tech industry was ever the same. They targeted the young hipster market — early adopters of tech, not business users. They wanted young adults who were searching for the perfect way to promote their status. The hipsters had something to prove and they weren’t afraid to drop some serious cash to do it. iPhones 1  2 were pretty magical. Only a select group of users got on board that early, the Mac addicts were in heaven.Then came the iPhone 3G, and everything changed again. I jumped into the iPhone scene at the 3G mark. No more CrackBerry addition for me. I became an Apple fan. I wondered how I had ever lived without this little device. I started out using it mainly for email and games, then Facebook stepped up their native game and I was hooked.At this point other manufacturers started to scramble and really try to get in the game. There were LG touch screen phones, but they were kind of messy from a UI stance. Motorola gave them a shot too, but battery life was insanely short; you basically had to have them plugged in all day. No one came close to iPhone, until Android exploded on to the scene.The Android platform had a slow start, then caught like wild fire. Non Apple smartphone manufacturers grabbed hold of Android like it was a lifeboat in the sea of mobile they were drowning in. Some went vanilla, others started customizing, and here we are today: with a ton load of Android devices all running fragmented versions of the OS. It’s all over the place, but it’s customizable, and the users who love it, REALLY love it. The freedom to customize your OS was a huge selling point for the tech savvy folks who had been jailbreaking their iPhones for years.Businesses starting buying employees smartphones, parents starting buying smartphones, they started buying their kids smartphones, the years passed and now even my great aunts and uncles are iPhone and Android-ing it up when they go in to upgrade.So why all the fuss about changes to mobile app navigation right now? “Folks have been using smartphones for years and years, what’s the big deal?” you may ask.The big deal, is that up until very recently, Smartphones were not full blown main stream. They were still a couple hundred bucks, and not everyone could afford them. You can now walk into BestBuy and pick up an iPhone and just add 25 bucks a month to your bill. Or, you can get an older generation phone ridiculously cheap.The smartphone demographic has shifted from the tech savvy hipsters who have used iPhones and Androids for years, to the grandparents who have been using a flip TracPhone up until now. They’re also being used by parents who don’t want to deal with a wifi contract so they let their kids use their smartphones to do research for school, and by elementary kids in the classrooms. A local school just started a BYOD program, and they’re including smartphones in the program.We’re dealing with a brand new demographic of mobile users here folks, many of whom have no idea what a series of stacked lines in a square mean (hamburger icon to you). And they expect more.I think of it this way. Back in the 80’s, DOS was where it was at. Prior, if you wanted to program, you ran around punching holes in things and feeding your masterpiece into a machine. Usability was not the key focus, getting the thing to work was the key focus. Function  than Form, UX  Usability at that point.Then came the internet. If you had a website, you were a magical sorcerer. I created my first one in the 90’s. It was an HTML 1, Geocities back when Geocities was just a big white box to type your code in, Javascript ticker infested hot mess, but it was right in line with industry standards. It had photos, links, the ticker (the shame still runs deep on that one) and that was it.Did it work? Yep. Was it beautiful? Not so much. Was it usable? Barely. Websites and programs didn’t have to be user friendly back then, they just had to exist. Folks piled their homepages full of crazy amounts of info. We were on dial up so images had to be tiny or you’d be sitting there for 10 minutes waiting for a page to load. 26.6k modems. Shudder.Then the industry began to grow and change. HTML grew up, JavaScript grew up, CSS burst onto the scene and things began to improve. Folks started to expect more than for your site to just load. They expected to be able to FIND things on your site, and navigate around with ease. And slowly over time, we moved away from the FunctionForm, Usability and UX mentality into the mindset where we are now, where if your page isn’t user friendly, folks leave and go find another one that is.Form, Usability  great UX are now the focus, functionality is a given. Now user friendly interfaces and a good looking website are the user expectation. The industry has grown up.So now, here we are. Mobile app designers and developers are scrambling around trying to figure out what’s going on with mobile navigation and this shifty hamburger icon. Mobile apps have been around for years now, the hipsters are well versed in the iconography and the expected navigational structures, “It’s always been done this way,” is on the tip of everyone’s tongue. But the way it’s always been done isn’t enough anymore.We’re moving out of the land of mobile being disruptive and new and people being amazed if your app actually loads, and into the land of people expecting your stuff to load in seconds, look fabulous and be usable. Is mobile moving at breakneck speed? You know it. You thought the internet transformation progressed quickly? Mobile is stomping that record right into the ground.We need to start testing all of the mobile things. Designs can’t just be based on, “I’m the designer and I like this so I’m doing it,” like the internet was back in the early days, we’ve moved past that point in the mobile space.People now expect your mobile designs to be sexy AND usable. How do you make sure your designs are usable? Mobile usability testing. And I don’t mean showing your app to your brother who has been using a smartphone for 5 years and him giving it a thumbs up. I’m talking about testing your app design with your specific customer demographic.Mobile Usability Testing tools have come a LONNGGG way in the last few years. Get out there and test your mobile designs with your demographic. Otherwise, your future will be bleak and your apps will wind up chilling next to the old forsaken javascript tickers in that big design graveyard in the sky.UX  Content Strategist at 

First off, yes, UX Design is not UI Design I agree. Although aren’t we doing ourselves a disservice if we’re talking about it this way?Look at it this way. Customers don’t experience just the UX architecture or visual design of a product. Customers experience products holistically. Shouldn’t we design experiences with that approach?This also stands true for the development of a product. If the design and development arent seamlessly integrated then the experience will be lacking. It doesnt really matter if you have a beautifully architected app if it’s so slow no one uses it. Same goes for the imagery and content. Things will only get more complicated as we see the growth of physical/digital experiences. Wearables and IoT are big areas that will be affected by this. Creating a great product that has a deep digital experience will need to focus on product thinking. If these types of digital products want to be successful then all parts of the experience need to be tremendous. Things like the industrial design needs to take into consideration the digital interactions. For example the popular Instead of fighting the battle to carve out what each individual does or does not do focus on executing and communicating as a team. VP, Experience Innovation at A collection of articles created by Universal Mind thinkers.

Летний. Бесполезный. Мой.Уместно спросить: а зачем ты туда вообще поехал? Действительно, я уже не первый год занимаюсь проектированием интерфейсов, и сам учил проектировать, даже оценки в зачетки ставил. Поэтому не могу сказать, что я ехал за знаниями. Скорее было просто интересно посмотреть на хваленую Британку, увидеться с крутыми ребятами. Но интенсив разочаровал. Разочаровал сам по себе, как учебное мероприятие. Кажется, что даже новички вряд ли способны на нем чему-то научиться.Интенсив длился 8 дней: предполагалось, что мы будем слушать лекции и день за днем прорабатывать наш проект, чтобы в последний день презентовать его на суд высокому жюри. Я записался в команду Яндекса, а были еще Альфа-Банк, Авиасейлс, Мейл.ру и другие. Нашей команде нужно было ни много ни мало переделать главную страницу Яндекса.Звучит круто? Да, но вот реализация подвела. Что конкретно мне не понравилось и помешало насладиться учебным процессом:Мы были предоставлены сами себе. Нам давали задание, а потом не проверяли насколько хорошо мы его сделали. Команды сбивались с пути, делали какую-то фигню, но их никто не останавливал. Самые главные стадии работы над задачей: понимание проблемы и генерация идей были скомканы и по факту просто пропущены.Вроде круто делать что-то для реальных компаний, но тогда и процесс должен быть как в жизни. У команд были очень разные задачи, но всех вели по одному и тому же процессу. Зачем для главной страницы Яндекса придумывать название? Какая может быть стратегия монетизации у интерфейса выписок интернет-банка?С какого-то момента команды перестали слушать лекции и идти по правильному процессу, все стали готовиться к презентации, т.е. подгонять решение под ответ.Мне было приятно увидеться с Костей Горским и Юрой Ветровым. Клевые лекции были у Олега Чулакова, и Вовы Лифанова. Артем Геллер интересно рассказал про сайт президента. Но по большей части это были лекции формата «доклад на конференции». Они были плохо связаны с учебным процессом и текущим этапом работы над проектом.Я знаю, что многим интенсив понравился. Командная работа увлекала, амбициозность задач заряжала энергией. Но положительные впечатление, кажется, остались у тех, кто проектированием раньше не занимался вообще. Для них всё было в новинку. Ребята же, которые уже что-то умели, просто нарисовали кучу картинок для своих проектов — в этом и состояло их обучение на интенсиве.Лично я уехал с парой новых мыслей. Примерно такой выхлоп получаешь от посещения, например, «Фестиваля-404». Только тут вместо уикенда пришлось потратить больше недели. Хорошо хоть с погодой в Москве повезло.СКБ Контур. Механический турок. Проектировщик в Диадоке. Руководитель отдела проектирования интерфейсов.

Like many people, I get asked questions. Sometimes these questions lead to answers. Other times they are the jumping off point for an essay about a deeply personal topic combined with a trendy design idea or method. Today I’d like to cut out the fancy-pants essay writing and stick to the questions because, as we all know, a good question is worth a thousand answers… or something like that.Your friendly neighborhood “oy, THIS guy.”

UX researchComing from a design background and working in the industry for a couple of years, I’ve seen many occasions where UX research failed to serve its purpose. It’s not uncommon that after a significant amount of time and effort were put into conducting interviews/focus groups/usability testing, the findings turned out to be unsurprising or not in line with what actually happens in the real world.This is the moment when people, including myself, start questioning about the value of UX research in terms of cost-efficiency and the impact on the final products.Not until recently when I dig a bit deeper into In retrospect, I’m surprised by how easy a bad research can be created, and how few researches were done right. The following are some common pitfalls:Research designs are about making the structure of the research (e.g. what kind of data we should collect to answer the research question?); while research methods are about choosing the appropriate ways to collect the data (e.g. survey? interview? A/B testing?).Although obviously research designs should always be the first step in a UX research, people tend to dive right into selecting research methods, figuring out ways of data collections before knowing what to do with those data. The latter usually produces purely descriptive outcome that tells no story. That’s why it gives the impression that UX research is useless.Interpreting data is a subjective work. Although there are no absolute right or wrong arguments, there are valid or invalid inferences. The invalid inferences often involve the following mistakes:First, confuse correlations with causations — e.g. the fact that the divorce rate and crime rate both increase in 20th century doesn’t mean that divorces cause crimes. There might be the third factor, such as economic environment, influencing both figures.Second, confuse predictions with causations — e.g. knowing the school that a child attends helps us to predict the his/her academic performance, but it doesn’t mean that schools affect performances. It might be because of family status or conditions that first influences school selection and then leads to the differences in academic results.From my experience, these pitfalls are prevalent in both the academic and working environment. For example, long ago in a student project, I designed a calendar app on tablet with the attempt to revolutionize the current interaction of the digital calendar. In hindsight, it can not be more obvious that choosing tablet as the device of the calendar was a huge mistake, because people mainly carry their phones around rather than tablets. However, at that time, I argued in the report that “tablet was chosen as the device because research suggested that people use calendars mostly in a sitting position which is same as tablet’s usage scenario”. Apparently, the inference was invalid because the two scenarios (sitting) are coincidental and uncorrelated.Furthermore, one time our team made an app to introduce a historical district in a city. We made personas and user stories to convince the client (and us) that target users (tourists and locals) would like to use the app to explore that district. We basically just went through the chosen research methods instead of firstly setting up a clear research goal, such as “what do users With all being said, I think we should all care about UX research because it helps to see the bigger picture, making sure to do the right thing at the beginning rather than later on trying to make things right. On top of that, we should invest more in UX research because it is extremely difficult to produce UX/UI designer currently based in Seattle. 

As the father of two tiny people, I’ve spent a lot of time with big purple dinosaurs, curious monkeys and little backpack wearing adventurers. Interestingly, I‘ve discovered that kids shows can teach us a lot about good product design, especially that Dora the Explorer.Every episode of Dora is the same. There is a clear end goal and Dora has to go through three steps to get there. The goal and the steps are articulated (repeatedly) by Dora and her friends throughout the adventure. This repetitive structure makes the show extremely enjoyable for kids because they can master it. They get what needs to happen, they understand the steps to get there and they know what’s coming next.People are driven by a desire for mastery. We want to feel accomplished and capable. The easier it is for a person to master a product the more likely they are to feel good about the experience. Predictability goes a long way toward making that happen. There are a number of ways to make a product predictable:Dora is aimed at little kids so the language is simple and the dialogue is concise.Your product might not be aimed at kids but there is rarely a downside to simple and concise language. The average adult American reads at a On every adventure, Dora inevitably runs into problems. Swiper the Fox steals something, or she has to get past snakes, or alligators, or whatever. But, the ever-resourceful Dora has it covered thanks to her magic, talking backpack and her equally magic, equally talky map. The map keeps her on the right track, and her backpack is full (conveniently) of just what she might need at any given moment.You can’t always predict what’s going to happen to your users in the wild. You can do your best to guide them down specific paths or toward specific outcomes, but people are complicated. They do what they want. And they will definitely do something you didn’t think of. It is important to always have a set of tools available to help them overcome problems they might encounter. This includes navigational tools to help get them back on track if they end up in the wrong place, as well as functional tools to help them accomplish tasks, make decisions, and undo mistakes. Delivering just what a user needs right when they need it makes for a magical experience. You might not be able to give them a magic, talking backpack, but if you are thoughtful about they way you surface and design your tools, you can come pretty damn close.Director of Product Design 

Over the past three years, I’ve been going through a transition. Much of it was in response to an adverse work environment, but in many ways I’ve always been on this path. Bits and pieces here and there, clues and signs, all pointing me in the direction I’ve taken. This is the story about my evolution as a Designer and how a UX process was launched.I’ll admit, when this all started, I didn’t know what UX really was. I mean, I understood the term “user experience” and thought I was doing it, but I didn’t fully understand the process behind it. So you could say that the actual starting point of change was from the moment I truly understood what user experience — the field, the principles, the process — really meant. The role that I was originally hired for had two main requirements: visual design skills and coding skills (HTML/CSS). I had both. To that, I added the creation of user flows, wireframes, and prototypes — skills that I would consider falling under interaction design. And for the first year of employment, I did my job well using all of those skills.After that first year, things began to change internally. Departments restructured, people moved up, people moved out, and turf wars ensued. During this flux, the visual design portion of my role was usurped by the Creative Director in the name of brand management. This left me with interaction design and writing code. In theory, new projects were to start with interaction design, go to Marketing for visual design, and then come back to my team for development. In practice, only the latter happened. I was being cut out of the design process, leaving me as a front-end developer that couldn’t write JavaScript.I was in a state of crisis. I had always identified being a Designer primarily with the visual aspect. If I no longer did the visual, was I still a Designer? The answer, of course, was yes. Design is about problem solving. It’s about making things that work, not just making them visually pleasing. I already knew that, but I struggled all the same.If you want to watch someone suffer, take away the thing they love. And I loved visual design. Suffering is pain and pain is growth. After working past the pain of losing the visual, I began to see Design for what it really was. I also began to see opportunity and how much the organization needed a Designer who truly understood Design. Enough to fight for it.So I fought. Not as a declaration of war — I fought for the users. I always had, but now I fought harder. And smarter. My role needed to evolve, not just for the sake of my personal happiness, but for the quality of the product and the overall user experience.How do you know that you’ve built the right thing? How do you know it works as intended? How do you know if an interface is truly “intuitive”? Because the stakeholder told you so? No. Because you asked the people who use your product. This was the need that I originally set out to fulfill, but it became something more.As you’ve probably gathered, I set out to launch a usability testing program. My manager and I recognized a need for product validation that came from outside the conference room. Politics were high and stakeholders loved to posture and argue, all the while the end user suffered. I couldn’t deliver the best solutions because I had to fight with people higher up the chain. You typically don’t win those fights. And the culture was very top-down.Usability testing held the key. I had already began running “hallway tests” with people from departments that didn’t have much exposure to the application. My manager and I had also began conducting moderated testing with new hires, but we needed actual users. People that sat outside of the org chart and could care less about internal politics.Figuring out what to test was never hard. There was always some feature or some point of contention that needed to be validated. But that’s still coming in from the business perspective. Coming in from the user’s perspective meant scripting a task that felt natural, authentic to how it would actually occur. And that meant understanding the context of use — the scenario.Scenarios, at first glance, translated in my mind as another word for user stories. Our team had begun the agile transformation not long after I was hired, so my world was filled with user stories, story points, and sprints. From a UX perspective, this meant that I had a common ground to speak with the developers on. Though technically scenarios are not the same as user stories, it was enough to get the conversation started.The trouble with scenarios and user stories is that, as the name suggests, it’s easy to tell a story. A piece of fiction that sounds convincing enough, but they’re easily distorted to your world view. The main point of a scenario is to, as mentioned before, understand the context of use. But who’s context? The user’s of course, but which ones? Are they all the same? No, of course not. But that needed to be unearthed.Figuring out the types of users didn’t only aid in creating the scenario to base a test script on, it also helped with screening and recruiting participants. If I’m being perfectly honest here, it wasn’t until I got to thinking about participant screening that I realized we needed to better identify our users. It may seem like the obvious solution is to just recruit from the existing user base. This was something that occurred to me, but I had to assume that the decision makers weren’t going to allow access to our existing users for my pilot program. Plus, from where I was with my self-education on UX processes, it was suggested in several sources that the test results were more profound with new users.I already had available the different types of users that the organization expected to engage with our product, but they were in the form of market segmentation. This at least got me started and gave me access to data that had been collected through marketing surveys. However, what we needed for a realistic scenario to test against was a composite that was based on behavior.When a person performs a certain task, their market segment has little to do with the way they perform that task. For example, a CEO may very likely perform a Google search in the same way a working mother might, but they are not typically considered to be in the same segment (unless, of course, the working mother is also a CEO). Behavior-based personas are a better indicator. Why? Because behavior is based on a need. Scenarios had led me to personas, but their purpose wasn’t to support scenarios. Their purpose was to understand the central context of the interaction — the users’ needs.This is probably where I should mention that, while doing all of this, I was devouring as much information and training as I possibly could on user experience processes and user-centered principles. Most of it, I came to realize, were things I had always done. Research was already a big part of my design process, just not in the form of user research. User-centered translated in my mind as There were several occasions where I would identify a knowledge gap in order to carry out an certain activity and would immediately have to train up on it. For example, I had become familiar with personas and scenarios a few years earlier and thought they were nice tools for creating better designs. But it wasn’t until I began trying to put together a proper usability test that I realized how they fit in with UX processes. They weren’t just nice, they were There were often moments where I would have to stop and reflect on my notes while in the midst of performing an activity. Or I would have questions that would pop up in the moment and I would have to make note and follow up that evening. Not as smooth as someone that had been formally trained in user-centered design, but the first time you do anything is always a little rough.When I first set foot down this path, I feel strongly that — within the context of my environment — Lean UX was where I needed to start. However, I would recommend a more conventional approach to someone being exposed to UX for the first time. This was, in many aspects, a lone mission. I had support from my dev team (we had long reconciled our relationships and integrated into each other’s work flow, but that’s another post) as well as tremendous support and encouragement from my boss. I would eventually get additional help from external consultants, but at the end of the day, I was only one person. Leah Buley’s From that, I acquired many tools and techniques that would make my work flow (and life) as a team of one much easier. Where Lean UX taught me to work on a tight budget and make the best of what I had available, Team of One taught me how to incorporate others into my process and delegate out some of the responsibilities. For example, one of the first activities that I pursued was conducting internal interviews. Not only did it help expose information about our customers and users, but it also served as internal marketing and recruitment for UX.One the most useful techniques of Team of One that I adopted was the use of the sketchboard. You hang and enormous sheet of butcher paper on a wall — preferably in a well exposed, high traffic area — and post sketches of whatever project you’re currently working on. You include requirements, notes, and any other necessary information along with a kit of makers and sticky notes to allow others to contribute. I grew this technique out to include research boards for curating information about our users.As a team of one trying to build a new process, I needed help. Moral support from the dev team and political support from my boss could only get me so far. I needed a UX coach, a mentor. I reached out to several people in the community, some well-known, and did something crazy — I asked for help. And something even crazier happened — I got it.I received advice and direction through phone calls, emails, tweets, and even in-person meetings. The amount of advice I received and the time that people were willing to spend to help out was more than I ever expected. I learned that many of the cultural and political challenges I faced were common. The overwhelming sense of camaraderie let me know that, although I may be a team of one, I wasn’t alone.While the UX transformation was taking place in my work space, it was also gaining traction in the conference space. The 2013 Webinars were the primary source of my UX education, along with countless blog posts and articles. At D2W I was lucky enough to win a 1-year subscription to Conferences and webinars are great for learning theory and listening to the experience of others, but the hands-on aspect is often missing. Trying something completely new on company time is usually considered high-risk. Workshops are a great solution to this (I would highly recommend Attending conferences, webinars, and workshops is also a great way to meet professional peers and grow your network (that sounds very business-y, but I approached it from a place of “Let’s be friends” rather than “Let’s do business”). I met several of my mentors this way. And it never hurts to know people who can point you in the right direction in case things don’t work out. Always have a Plan B.As I began to gain a little steam, I realized that it was important to lay out some ground rules for myself. They were designed for the social layer of process change, which is just as important as the process itself. Here are some things that I kept in mind as I moved along.This is something that I borrowed from Lean UX, but is definitely important as a team of one. Designers are notorious for being project heroes and full of ego. Egos are easy to trip over and can undo progress. It takes a team to delivery a project, so we’re all equally important. Getting a better experience to our users is more important than any single member.I had already experienced first-hand the frustration of company politics. It is unfortunate that there are people in the world that are threatened by the success of others, but it is something to be aware of. That said, is important to always be gracious and thank people for their time and effort. It is okay to disagree with someone, but don’t make it personal. Choose your battles wisely. Sometimes, it is more important to give in now so you can gain support for the future. Lose the battle, win the war.This may seem obvious, but it can be a challenge. One of the many ways that people connect with each other is by sharing stories. These connections are important when UX goals rely on internal support. Often when people share stories, it comes in the form of gossip. It’s okay to listen, but try to keep it to a minimum and avoid contributing. If you want people to lend you their trust — and it is on loan — then you have to show you won’t abuse it. This is especially important for conducting internal interviews as well as garnering support for your cause.This one is challenging as you have to always “be on,” which can be exhausting. It can also easily be overdone, so be careful about how much you bang the UX drum. Squeaky wheels may get the oil, but sometimes they just get replaced. Try to find relevant ways to pull UX into the conversation. Listen to problem areas that your co-workers have and think about where UX can help. If you have a success, celebrate it and everyone involved.Asking for help is a good way to recruit others and explain what it is that you are trying to do. If you make it relevant to their context, you’d be surprise how helpful others can be. The best way to spread the word is by reaching across departments for support. This allows you to delegate out some of the UX activities — alleviating some of the pressures as a team of one — while gaining buy-in across the organization.This falls in line with evangelization and recruitment. Be open and let others into your process. Take ownership in what you do, but don’t lock others out. Design is and always has been a collaborative process, so embrace it. No more designing in black boxes. You are still the expert, so demonstrate your expertise by facilitating and empowering others. Let everyone see what you’re doing. Celebrate the contributions of others. Secrets don’t make friends and closed mouths don’t get fed.This is an extension of openness and transparency, as well as evangelization. Make your process public. Use sketchboards, posters, wikis, emails, IM, and whatever else to make your efforts and findings visible and accessible to all. Evangelize UX by synthesizing the knowledge to the collective. You’re not doing all this for your sake, you’re doing it for the sake of the product and the company at large.Treat yourself like a digital product and be as user friendly as possible. If you expect people to pitch in, it needs to be as convenient for them as possible. Change is hard and people are often resistant. Offset this resistance by making it easy. This means additional work on your end and — I warn you now — it is tiresome. But its not a burden you will have to bear for long. And if you do (you’ll have to determine what is an acceptable time scale), that may be an indication that you’re doing something wrong. It may also be an indication that your organization is not ready for UX. If the latter is the case, be prepared to set sail.Not something that you’ll hear me say very often, but function is more important than form here. If you are lucky enough to gain traction and get active participation from others, run with it! So what if they aren’t doing it “right”? You can adjust the way it’s being done after people see the value and begin trusting the process. Criticizing too early may shun (and potentially lose) supporters.This is part of a larger concept that I refer to as Think about the organizational context and design a process with existing processes in mind. If your process causes heartburn for everyone involved, you will be hard pressed for support. Being aware of any potential conflicts and designing for them will soften the change.It might be helpful to create an experience map of your organization much like you would for a product or service. This will help you to better understand how all the pieces come together. It doesn’t have to be fully realized in order to be useful, just enough for you to start to get the bigger picture. Treat it like a living document — as more information becomes available, iterate (this is Lean thinking coming into play).The process wouldn’t be complete without its own feedback cycle. Leave the door open for critique or suggestions. Ask for feedback at the end of project phases or UX activities. Stop by desks or offices and do impromptu check-ins. This not only gathers insights, it also builds relationships and helps maintain visibility. Remember: out of sight, out of mind.Most of the powering up took place in the latter half of 2013. At my annual review in July of that year, my manager and I decided to evolve my role more towards UX. We also hoped it would better define roles within the organization and create clearer expectations for project management.By the beginning of 2014, I was setting up appointments with customer-facing departments and conducting internal interviews. After each session, I posted my notes in the company wiki. I kept two versions of the notes: one a raw transcript (for my eyes only) and the other edited down to session dates and key insights that was accessible across the organization. Confidentiality was something of a concern, so names and departments were omitted.I also leveraged the existing data from marketing surveys in order to minimize effort and accelerate discovery. My goal was to get all of the necessary information collected up front for persona creation workshops. The intended invitees would have limited availability, so convenience and efficiency were major factors for maximum output. The collaborative workshops would aid in establishing a shared understanding as well as collective ownership of the process.I scouted around a bit for testing facilities. We originally wanted to run moderated tests in-person. After getting the first round of budget proposals from various vendors, we realized that getting executive approval (it was relatively expensive) would be extremely difficult. As an alternative, we set up tests with After almost a year of training, research, and process development, we were finally in a position to make a formal pitch to the new CTO (during all this, the former CTO had retired). Serendipity struck in the form of a Customer Experience consultant, who started just two days before our meeting was scheduled. We quickly reworked the slide deck as a joint effort for maximum appeal. The CTO gave us executive approval, formalizing the UX process.At my 2014 annual review, my job title was changed from Interactive Design Lead to User Interface  Experience Design Lead, incorporating the full scope of the UX process into my list of responsibilities. A few weeks later, a joint meeting was held to redefine the boundaries between departments and job roles, further crystalizing our efforts. It was a success all around.Right when things were really starting to come together, outside consultants started getting involved. The contracting of the Customer Experience consultant ended up being a shot in the arm. He had access to leadership that I didn’t previously have. He also sat outside the org chart, which meant he wasn’t subject to the same political dynamics. The added boon of being like minds translated into a shorter ramp up for joint strategies.Together, we ran the collaborative workshops and recruited others into our efforts. As an important part of this process, all artifacts were curated openly as research boards in the office hallways. This helped to expose those who didn’t attend to the process and allowed them to contribute additional insights (extra note pads and sharpies were kept nearby). As the sessions moved on, research boards were consolidated and eventually evolved into personas and touchpoints. We needed everyone to see the process as it happened as well as be able to easily digest the findings.Right about the time the collaborative workshops began gaining momentum (I was now frequently getting stopped in hallway by excited attendees), another third-party vendor came into the picture. They were a national (international?) brand with plenty of weight behind their name, so in many ways, it was an additional boost. The goals of the CX consultant and I were echoed by their expert advice.Piggy-backing off of our efforts, the vendor ran a day-long collaborative workshop fleshing out the remaining personas, their journey maps, and possible solutions for the future version of the application I worked on (a full redesign was now in talks). Much of our work was validated by their process as well as giving the culture a much needed shock of intense collaboration. The additional output pushed our efforts even further and the similarity between processes proved to the business leaders that we knew what we were doing.On the heels of the day-long workshop, a local vendor, who specialized in UX consulting, began contracting with the organization. Validating our efforts even further, we collaborated together in a month-long discovery phase of what was now an official redesign of the application. I give them kudos for the extra care they took to work with the in-house team and keep the spirit of collaboration a high priority. Our joint efforts produced a detailed competitive analysis (yay, spreadsheets!), a more holistic look at the user-product ecosystem, and additional recommendations on the evolution of our product and services.Where there was plenty of room to compete with and contradict each other, the experience with the consultants and vendors was very productive. It was a fortunate outcome that the efforts of one supported and legitimized the efforts of the other. User experience was gaining traction and the corporate culture was beginning to shift as a result.It took quite a bit of effort and dedication, but redefining a role within a hostile environment is nothing to snicker at. Instead of giving up and succumbing to frustration or apathy, with the support of my boss and many others, we were able to grow my role into something more. This is something that the organization needed, whether they knew it or not. It was a golden opportunity and I am glad to have seized it.I honestly didn’t think we would get approval from the C-suite, but we made it happen. It was the joint efforts that influenced the final outcome, and I am grateful for all the help I received along the way. As anyone who has had to convince a client will know, getting buy-in from the key decision makers is no small feat.Getting buy-in from leadership should be the crowning achievement of this story, but it’s not. It’s the cultural change, the transformation in attitude that I began to see. Hearing the stakeholders refer to personas by name in project meetings was magical. Seeing the excitement around the collaborative workshops was empowering and inspired me to keep moving forward. The biggest thing I learned was, even though it may not seem like it, people are willing to contribute. The silos that had separated everyone for nearly 30 years were beginning to crumble and people were clawing at the bricks. The power of UX isn’t just the ability to provide a better designed product, but the effect it has on the organization overall.As much of the UX process was something I grew into, it was not without its own missteps and failures. But that’s something to be celebrated. Just like in usability testing, it’s the mistakes that give you the most information about the quality of a design. Without the failures, I couldn’t have the successes.One of my biggest shortcomings was not having the experience nor the foresight to establish benchmarks to measure against. I can tell you that the application I worked on grew in subscription rates, renewal rates, and contribution to the company’s overall revenue stream. I can also tell you that customer service calls on usability issues dropped significantly. What I can’t tell you is what those numbers were before I was hired. That is important if you are trying to prove the value of your role (and department) to the decision makers.As we are all in the people business, it is important to identify not only who’s involved in a project, but anyone that your job role may affect. Being more mindful of the Creative Director’s perspective on the application and the job responsibilities therein may have saved me a lot of heartache and frustration. Many of the stakeholder relationships I stumbled upon during the commencement of a project. That is something I would highly recommend identifying before even discussing requirements. It’s the people that make the project work, not the requirements.I do not come from a background in Business Administration, so much of the corporate layer I had to learn in the process. UX as a job function — and they don’t tell you this part — is indeed a leadership role. It has to be. If you are going to truly influence the stakeholders and incite organizational change, it requires leadership skills. That doesn’t mean being in a formal leadership position, but it does mean being a leader. I didn’t understand this walking in, but I definitely get it now.I am not the most assertive person by nature. There have been times in my life where I could see an opportunity, but fail to seize the moment. Much of what I set out to do would have been more effective had I acted sooner. What I was able to accomplish is something to be proud of, but there could have been more.How does the story end? I was laid off with many others from my department (including my boss). Maybe not so unexpected because one could sense that a storm was brewing. But unexpected considering the amount of success and momentum the UX process was gaining. You can’t win every fight. You can’t change people who don’t want to be changed. Sometimes winning really means recognizing when you’ve lost. My take away from all this: Have the courage to battle giants, but have the wisdom to walk away when it’s a battle that can’t be won.UX as a role is in high demand right now. If it is something that you are passionate about, there is no need to stay at an organization that doesn’t support it. There are others that will and pay well for it.I came into UX as a response to adverse conditions, but it is something that I’ve grown to love. And in a sense, I’ve been doing it all along. Ever onward.I would like to extend thanks to the following people:Without your advice and support, I wouldn’t have accomplished half of what I did. This post is my way of paying it forward.Cheers!Visual Alchemist | Codesmith | Brandologista collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

The “user experience” (UX) practice In emerging markets (like the Philippines), “UX” is moving into the creative community’s consciousness through the All of these websites (in the Philippines) existed for years without it.It’s not as if they died away. Some are even More importantly, why shell out money to do it or pay someone do it for you?Let’s see if I can help answer that.Not really.To be specific, I don’t believe in “UX” as something special that you What I do believe — is that “user experience design”:Essentially, it is how you plan and optimize a product to Having said that I will talk about the:I’m always a bit curious about people who call themselves UX practitioners.I used to tell my team “Never just ‘do UX’” (I told my team that because UX is composed of multiple disciplines. And, to call yourself a UX practitioner is to have an expertise in a combination (or all, if you’re a “unicorn”) of the disciplines.This is why there are many different flavors, so to speak, of UX designer.The disciplines under UX design, are summarized in this popular bubble chart, To simplify, I organize them under these four (4) broader fields:Not all products “need” UX.Keep the following in mind when wanting to apply UX to your organization:1) UX is only worth doing for creating 2) The more 3) UX is best planned on a For businessmen and business development managers who want to pitch or incorporate UX, this is a simple checklist to gauge the readiness of your company (or clients) for a User Experience Design element in your projects. Essentially, it’s a gauge of the multi-channel planning maturity of your business.You can use your answers to weigh what kind of UX services would be most viable for the business.From experience User experience design is, more often than not, a struggle to justify.Like anything with a “research” element (like analytics, or ethnography) — The answers to the previous checklist questions help us, by giving us a picture of: the The fact that there’s a concept such as And that isn’t hard to believe considering that how many UX deliverables there are.This is something you need to keep in mind when diagnosing what “UX” you need to do.There are at least 20 kinds of deliverables associated with User Experience Design. You can see some visualized lists of these deliverables in:Three years ago, the team I was working with formalized our deliverables list, so that the account managers and designers we worked with knew what to expect from us.The deliverables in black were the “needs”, and the greyed out elements were “nice-to-haves”.This was our ideal process*, but this was much neater than reality. This process was only reserved for content-heavy platforms and apps.The other projects used a bare minimum type of UX — in a way “minimum viable UX”.Why is it important to think of “minimum viable UX”? Because Honestly, you’ll need a rare kind of Client, who is open and (design) mature to get approval for these “additional” project costs, and is willing to co-create an idea.You can look at it two (2) ways:I have a minimum viable UX that I need to make a project run sensibly.And there’s a minimum viable UX that account managers like to use to give Clients confidence about a well thought-out design.Certain clients would have a more sophisticated grasp of their customer experience channels (understanding that each one works together to build their brand).They see UX as a way to plan their “brand experience” across channelsLastly, there’s a currently rare breed of progressive clientele, who are willing to see the team as Discovery Partners building their product idea.Because some Clients just want “UX” for the name, but not the spirit, it actually affects the level of deliverables they can appreciate.Don’t knock this. This happens. And change management is a gradual journey. So in the meantime, why not give:Somewhere in between just wanting the cool “UX” label and being willing to pay for research analysis, there’s this level (The I-understand-that-objectives-drive-design-but-research-still-takes-too-long layer), where you can give:Really the only level that will pay for delaying their vision of a project till they’ve invested in research.This is a work in progress, and will be building on this as I learn more about how brands will use User Experience Design.If there’s some bitterness seeping through, those would be the dregs of previous project frustrations, from exerting unappreciated effort ☺Feel free to chime in and share what you think and how you evangelize user experience in your company, because we can all use a little help (and sympathy) from our friends.Researcher and data analyst who works for the content and design community. Often called an experience designer. My UI screenshot habit: screenshotcrazy.tumblrContent strategy, product management and UX. Sharing what we learned, from projects that assume redesigning a website just means shuffling the layout.

“The first draft of anything is shit.” -Hemingway“They want to know about your process”. Applying for UX jobs requires a certain amount of self-reflection in analyzing this routine. In a collaborative industry, the question of process comes down to how people think. How they solve problems from different angles and how they will collaborate to achieve a common goal.I believe creative process is directly correlated with how people write. It sounds cliché because writing is in itself a creative process. But before it is creative, writing is based in communication. It reflects how we view the world and ultimately how we view our response. Good writing forces clear thinking and the best writing forces clarity with acute brevity.Of course, creative process is unique and personal. I have talked to people who say their writing process comes like something out of a dream. It just happens when they have thought about something enough. Others told me about a day filled with looking out of idyllic windows, sipping tea, surrounded by minimalism and design only to have their entire days worth of thoughts come to them in a five minute time span.To be perfectly literal, my process starts with a rush of thoughts and ideas. I spend the day working to make sense of something and then translate the meaning in more tangible ways. For me it involves a lot of reiteration. With every revision, I am able to navigate new ways of communicating. But it takes each reiteration in order to see what direction is the best fit for my audience and my message.As a content strategist and writer with deep roots in user center design, my process is cross platform. It is a process of generative and evaluative research. Repetition applies to writing, strategy and wireframing. Its addictive simply because there are moments when I know my writing has captured a truth, a resonance or a sentiment that can be shared. It bakes in the human element of what we do and what we work for. In a sense it creates a community with a single sentence or an engineered experience.Objectively, good writing and good user experience need to capture the personal and the universal while also being concise. For me, writing is intrinsically a UX process. The writer must anticipate what their reader will understand, what they will need from the piece and above all what will keep them engaged.Thoughts and stories from BDW, a 50 week graduate program dedicated to re:designing, re:imagining and re:working the digital world.

Anthropology as a discipline is incredibly varied, and runs the gamut of subfields that cover every aspect of what it means to be human; Archaeology, Linguistics, Biological Anthropology and Socio-cultural Anthropology — All of these fall within the header of “Anthropologist”. The word itself invokes a variety of mental images. While some might picture an Indiana Jones-like character cracking a whip and escaping pre-Miley Cyrus riding wrecking balls, others see a grizzled scholar, poring over books from an armchair settled next to a fire. Those that might know more about the discipline might envision an anthropologist observing the rituals and culture of a tribe in Papua New Guinea, or exploring the social rites of passage of college fraternities. Most, I would assume, would never use the term ‘user experience’ in conjunction with Anthropology — Which is unfortunate, as much of the theory and practices of Anthropological teaching align perfectly with those of UX.Its primary goal is to understand why — Why do we do the things we do? What motivates us? What makes a group of people similar or dissimilar to other groups? How has human existence changed or stayed the same? Anthropology is a holistic science, one that examines the entire gamut of human existence — From its earliest origins to modern-day cultural and social systems to gain a better understanding of how and why we do the things we do. If you think this sounds much like the job description of a User Experience Designer, you wouldn’t be the only one to make the connection. Many large corporations, such as Google, IBM and Microsoft have hired resident Anthropologists and teams of social scientists to help navigate the waters of human experience and help them to understand their users.If you’re studying Anthropology or social sciences and it comes as a very pleasant surprise that you could someday work for Google or IBM, you’re not alone; I myself was quite shocked to find that not only could my degree be applied to a career I had never even heard of, but also that my academic and methodological training as an anthropologist aligned quite beautifully with the professional requirements and methods cultivated by UX designers and researchers.Socio-cultural Anthropological research involves the study of the behaviour of a specific group usually to serve a research hypothesis or theory. It emphasizes ethnography, or the collection of data via field-work and direct participatory observation of the group being studied, along with secondary methods such as survey and cross-cultural analysis. Anthropology majors not only have training in the collection of data related to human experience, but are also quite adept in compiling, interpreting, and reporting on their research. These same methods, which Anthropologists and social scientists have been implementing for centuries, have since been adopted by the bourgeoning industry of UX in their study of technology and those who use it. The term ‘Ethnography” itself, firs popularized by cultural anthropologists like Bronislaw Malinowski, has been adopted by the UX community to describe, quite rightly, their methods of research.User Experience research aims to provide insights and understanding into the perspectives and wants of their users through qualitative and quantitative methods. User Experience research aims to provide insights and understanding into the perspectives and wants of their users through qualitative and quantitative methods. Anthropology has exactly the same motivations and cultivates very similar methods in attaining insight on those they study. So why have aspiring Anthropologists like myself never heard of UX?In my four years of College, I don’t recall a single instance of hearing the term ‘User Experience’ or even ‘Applied Anthropology’, Not once did an advisor or professor relate the possibility of applying my degree and training in anthropology and social science to technology or business in a way that broke from the traditional model of Anthropology. In my experience, the jobs that I was informed that I could attain with my major were either academic or pertained to cultural research management, such as museum work. Why is this? In my opinion, it seems to me that the neglect in reporting professions in Applied Anthropology at the University level, and instead pushing students in the direction of careers that favour of classical and scholarly pursuits seems to go hand in hand with the general view of Anthropologists that private sector jobs and big-business/corporations are wholesale evil or inherently unethical. Coupled with this is the simple lack of transparency regarding the ability to implement Anthropological thought in a technological context and to online, as opposed to small-scale, communities.So if you’re an Anthropology major or recent graduate, and like myself, are unsure about you future prospects, consider researching User Experience and other applied/digital anthropological careers. Look up if your university has a resident Applied Anthropologist, consider interning at a tech company, or conduct some independent research on online communities or social media. I think you might be surprised at how well suited you are. And if your business is looking to better understand your users and what they need or want in a product or service consider anthropologists –We’ve spent much of our academic career preparing for a job in UX without even knowing it.UX Connections is dedicated to knowledge-sharing for digital creatives, technologists and designers worldwide.

For the past couple of years, I’ve kept a detailed list of my favorite UX resources — spanning books that are decades old, to articles, podcasts, and online courses. I believe that the list contains invaluable reads for everyoneEach of these resources have molded the way that I approach projects, and have been beyond useful for my own journey into design.With each project that I take on, I find myself constantly referring back to the ideas and concepts from these books and articles. I hope that they are as useful to you as they were to me.Since I’m just starting out as a designer, I know that there’s always more to learnNot for school, but for life we learn.designer 

A few years ago I attended an entirely fabulous UX conference at a snazzy updated hotel. The place had about 30 floors, was gorgeous and had all the latest tech gadgets.When I arrived at the hotel I was given my room card. The folks at the desk explained that it would also function as my elevator delivery card. The hotel was locked down so that you could only arrive on a specific floor if you were in the elevator with a person who had swiped their card and was staying on that floor. It was odd, and not very secure since anyone who got in the elevator with you could just follow you out, but apparently it gave some people peace of mind. My room was on the 15th floor. I was hauling a 50 lb suitcase behind me, and couldn’t wait to get to the room to crash after my 10 hour flight.When I got to the elevators I was impressed. They were sleek and sexy looking, and each had a small card slot on a pedestal in front of it, along with a button for the gym. There weren’t even any lighted floor indicators, it was a very minimalist setup. I slid my card in, and a few seconds later the elevator slipped to a halt in front of me. I got inside, and again there were no buttons, other than an emergency call.The doors closed, and the elevator swooshed up. I watched the numbers tick by: 10th floor, 11th, 12th, and then started to panic when it shot past 15 and on to 16, 17 and eventually to 30. The panic came from the fact that I’m a touch claustrophobic and felt like I was being held hostage. Malfunctioning elevators is the stuff nightmares are made from. The doors finally opened and I leapt out of the elevator and discovered that it had ushered me to the fitness floor, complete with a sauna and a huge gym. (If I hadn’t been coming down from a massive panic attack I probably would have been offended.)There was absolutely no way that I was dragging my 50 pound suitcase down 15 flights of stairs, so I nervously inserted my card in the card slot pedestal, and again the doors opened. Once again it shot past the 15th floor and back to the lobby. At this point I was annoyed. I marched up to the front desk, stood in line and once it was my turn explained that the elevator was refusing to let me off at my floor, and they apologized and explained that the system was new and that they were experiencing quite a few glitches. They “reset” something, and assured me that this time it would work fine.Long story short, it took no less than 3 attempts and conversations with the front desk to get from the lobby to the 15th floor where my room was located.The ridiculous elevators had triggered what was quite possibly the worst hotel related user experience of my life.New and fancy does not always equate to better. I learned several months after my anger inducing experience that the elevator system had been replaced by a more traditional one, at great expense to the hotel.To this day every time I see a sign for a hotel from that particular chain I experience a flash of frustration.Negative top of funnel user experiences with your product, even small ones, can leave long lasting impressions. Make sure that you’re not letting small, poorly executed details diminish your brand’s good name.UX  Content Strategist at 

IT Global Meetup 5 прошёл 6 июня 2015 года в Санкт-Петербурге. Организаторы — Алексей прошёл следующий путь: Photoshop → Visio → HTML → Axure → Balsamiq + Confluence.С Акшурой проектировщики легко скатываются в излишнюю детализацию и тратят время без пользы.Бальзамик хорош для проектирования под готовый набор компонентов, но он генерирует картинки, которые нужно как-то размещать в интернете. Алексей выкладывает их в Конфлюенс с комментариями и ссылками.Критерии выбора инструмента:Для выбора подходящего инструмента ответьте на вопросы:Среди постоянных инструментов Алексей упомянул GifCam — для создания гиф-анимации.Рассказывал Захар Кириллов из КБ «Собака Павлова».Аджайл-манифест говорит, что главное это:Аджайл строится вокруг фич, а не людей. «Люди» из манифеста — это не пользователи, а команда и стейкхолдеры. Даже продакт оунер и маркетолог не контактируют с конечным пользователем. Проектировщик работает с людьми и в эту схему вписывается плохо.Бывает, что в рамках одного спринта проектировщик начинает работу одновременно с остальной командой. Пока он работает над интерфейсом, разработчики делают не связанные с ним задачи (пилят ядро). Это не работает, на этом этапе проектировать уже поздно.Он придумывает концепцию эпика, проектирует фичи, для каждой юзерстори делает прототип. Чем ближе фича к попаданию в спринт, тем детальнее она должна быть проработана, включая графические ассеты, приёмочные сценарии и так далее. Самую важную работу проектировщик делает на этом этапе, и продакт оунер не должен здесь перетягивать одеяло на себя.Проектировщик помогает планировать спринт: разъясняет гайдлайны, проверяет, что у команды есть всё необходимое для начала работы. Во время оценки задач (planning poker) он объясняет непонятные моменты. Если фича не влезает в спринт, он думает, что в ней изменить, чтобы она влезла и сохранила полезность.Когда команда реализует спроектированное, проектировщик:На стендапах он интересуется, как помочь разработчикам, всё ли у них есть. Помогает, если задача забуксовала. Ищет альтернативные решения. (Но не компромиссы, так как от них страдают все.)Когда разработка завершена:Тестируем Главные мысли:Популярный принцип работы с интерфейсом:Возможно, потому что именно так выглядит рабочий процесс дизайнера. Артём показал таймлапсы рабочего дня дизайнера и фронтендера. Дизайнер больше работает мышкой, фронтендер почти не убирает руки с клавиатуры.Закон Фиттса говорит следующее (если упростить): чем крупнее и ближе объект к курсору, тем проще по нему попасть. Пользователи постоянно страдают от этого закона, прицеливаясь по мелким кнопкам.Частое действие в браузере — открытие новой вкладки. Во всех браузерах за это отвечает специальная (мелкая) кнопка. Есть и клавиатурное сокращение Ctrl+T, но браузеры его не рекламируют.На айфоне Slide to unlock работал раньше только в определённом месте экрана. Чтобы разблокировать экран в iOS 7, провести пальцем слева-направо можно в любом месте. И никто не в курсе. Пользователям об этом не рассказали.Главное действие на главной странице твиттера — написать новый твит. Чтобы это сделать, мы ищем текстовое поле и жмём на него. Что мешает просто написать текст? Пусть он автоматически окажется в нужном поле.Можно изменить интерфейс для опытных пользователей — скрыть кнопки, отвечающие за действия, которые пользователи и так выполняют с помощью клавиатурных сокращений.Мозг человека постоянно пропускает через себя информацию. Естественная информация — это всё, что мы видим вокруг, слышим, чувствуем на ощупь и так далее. Часть информации навязывают источники, конкурирующие за наше внимание. Доступ к навязываемой информации стал проще.Интересная статистика:Корпоративные пользователи так поступить не могут. Поэтому у них снижается скорость работы, растёт число ошибок, теряется интерес к работе. Это может закончиться увольнением. 75% потерь информации случается из-за человеческого фактора.Есть оптимальная скорость усвоения информации. Более интенсивный поток ведёт к стрессу. Пользователь устаёт, выходит на перекур и в конце концов увольняется. Менее интенсивный поток ведёт к скуке.Что ещё ведёт к перегрузке:Для комфортной работы снижаем нагрузку по всем фронтам:ГОСТ Р 52289–2004, п. 5.1.14: в одном месте нельзя вешать более 3 знаков, так как водитель не успеет их воспринять.Подготовил UX-проектировщик, директор samplar.pro, создатель Разговоры про дизайн и всё, что с ним связано. По-русски.

Estive relendo um No mercado internacional é fácil achar cases de estúdios que conseguiram incluir Empresas brasileiras adoram isso como argumento de venda, o cliente adora ouvir e é algo que convence. Mas na prática falamos de algo que quase sempre envolve uma entrega única.É claro, o mercado brasileiro não tem essa abertura, costuma pagar apenas por entregas, não por rotinas. Mas isso também é um desafio lá fora e culpar o mercado brasileiro é a desculpa mais fácil pra nossa incompetência.Quando falam que é impossível vender Em alguns casos, as empresas não fazem ideia do que é De quebra, aquele texto do início traz alguns pontos como o A galera que é pura de UX tem sentido uma falta absurda de estar mais próxima do código. Não à toa, os melhores especialistas UX são aqueles que manjam de código. O mercado tem sentido essa necessidade mas ainda não conseguiu se adequar e encaixar isso num fluxo. Se prestar atenção, isso é Enfim, por mais que o texto seja sobre wireframe e prototipação, reparem que na verdade ele aborda como fazer entregas melhores (algo que todos buscamos). Se vocês repararem, é justamente sobre unificar mais as entregas e aproximar as equipes que estão em disciplinas distintas. Isso não é só baseado no post do início, mas muito no conceito de Enquanto continuarmos cobrando e fazendo entregáveis, jamais conseguiremos nos dedicar a um fluxo completo de experiência do usuário.Isso vale pra mim, isso vale pra você, isso vale pro mercado.Eu gosto de cebola porque eu sou adulto.

Lean startup is a methodology that can help your company articulate hypotheses better, While many product teams are excited about lean startup ideas, they often run into challenges when trying to adopt lean principles because they lack specific guidance on what to actually do. So, we hosted a webinar with Dan Olsen, Product Consultant and author of Watch the full recording below, or read on for our short recap on Dan’s model of product-market fit has 5 components in a hierarchical model where the layer above depends on the layer beneath.Starting from the bottom, the market consists of your target customer at the base layer of the pyramid. The second layer is the target customer’s underserved needs. Your product should focus on that sweet spot of not just customer needs, but needs that aren’t currently being served.On the product side, the pyramid starts with the value proposition: how will your product be better or different from ones already out there? The second tier is the feature set of your product. Last comes the The Lean Product Process walks you through from bottom to top. During each layer, you’ll form hypotheses and then Let’s hop up a few levels of the pyramid. Once you identify your MVP feature set, create your MVP prototype to test with customers. At this stage, you need to start thinking about UX design.Dan likes to think of For example, when the founders of Quicken were designing the software, there were a lot of other personal finance products on the market, but none were easy to use. Their hypothesis was to make the UI look like a checkbook so that the learning curve was much smaller.Dan recommends the following workflow for creating a product:There are 3 types of user tests that you can employ to get feedback on your design: in-person moderated, remote moderated, and remote unmoderated.Dan reviewed his “Dan’s webinar was a wealth of information and tips. I urge you to watch the recap above for more information about how to prioritize customer needs, the dos and don’ts of user testing, and a product-market fit case study.And ultimately, we love the way that Joseph summed up the process:Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

This year’s presenter list included professionals with long term work experience on the global digital scene.First day of the conference started with Among other presenters who shared their experiences was an interesting duo from the studio As a final treat of the day was a ‘performance’ by the 68th year old German legendhe tells his colleagues, whereas to his clients he says:Eric does not believe in pitching, he thinks the clients should first learn how to be clients, he advises us to throw our specs through the window, to concentrate on the content hierarchy and not on the layout, on modules not pages, to base our designs on the content because only complete content can be reduced to its important parts. All hail Eric Spiekermann!Second day featured talks on UX process, tools and techniques by A round table with They all agreed that one needs to have a strong work philosophy and that money is all around us, but what’s sparse are talented people with necessary skills who can solve actual problems. “Working on an ugly site gives the most opportunity for improvement!”, said Andy Budd in his answer to the audience’s questions.Her talk was very insightful and intimate. She talked about her fears that everybody could relate to. She suggested that we eliminate should/must/ought/have words from our vocabulary and transform negative stress to you-stress, that we talk with our inner critic in order to contain it.Closing words were delivered by The conference was organised by With a few less interesting lectures and some minor technical glitches such as lack of WiFi, which made the communication between roaming attendees somewhat harder, the conference ended very successfully and with gallons of Bavarian beer. It is the informal mingling in the breaks and outside the conference venue what makes this type of events an important opportunity for making new friends and colleagues, as well as possible business partners.Personal and professional growth is guaranteed at this type of events. See you at UX Advocate  Prospective General, sometimes Dj. — Prev. 

I’m sorry! This is yet another post(This time it’s something I recently started using again after 8+ years — Facebook. FB earned a reprieve from the tech press after its change of heart on native smartphone apps. But their Android app is still way below par for what is Here are 2 bits that bugged me right away…Facebook states that stories/posts that are See the example post in the image above.My understanding for this horrible UI is that it was just copied over, without a single thought or UX test, from their desktop web UI. On desktop web, that small ‘continue reading’ link is how the full post text would be usually linked. But when the UI was moved, the excerpt text before that was linked to the ‘comments  likes UI’, instead of the ‘full post UI’.Because comments  likes matter more than the full post content.Comments  likes are metrics that both advertisers and common users care for, and pay for. Promoting that, even at cost of bad UX is an understandable business decision.Also, Facebook knows better than anyone: The first issue may be a legacy problem — outcome of moving from a feature heavy desktop website to a constrained screen-estate environment. This second one cant be blamed on legacy, it’s just horrendous app design.For most modern smartphone apps, the ‘settings’ button is normally placed directly in the overflow menu — two touches away from the app’s main user interface. Look at examples of two other ‘social’ apps, Twitter  Google+ below:Quick and simple, isnt it? Not so easy on Facebook.The settings buttons are hidden:Facebook really doesn’t want users to change their default settings! Even the logout button, though hard to find by itself, is slightly easier to locate than the settings (by virtue of being the What about the usual overflow icon (the 3 vertical dots on top right of most apps)? That’s been taken over to show a drawer for FB messages. But it doesn’t do anything in reality, other than direct you to FB’s separate messenger app. If you don’t use the app? Hard luck! That drawer stays there occupying valuable screen real-estate.While the first issue may have its origins in a desktop legacy, this one seems to be a conscious gift from the growth (retention) hackers  user-data gatherers inside Facebook. Users finding settings easily may tighten their privacy, and reduce data that FB’s advertising partners can access.Before I joined Facebook, I used to wonder how the app might have been structured given the wide variety of feature offerings that their desktop website has. It would have taken a lot of data and a strong will to narrow down the website to a tiny set of delightful, high-involvement features that they’d showcase as the mobile app. Separation of Facebook’s Android app feels like a mess — an attempt to fit the The two non-stream, but popular, supplementary features — Photos  Instant Messaging (which are both way better than FB’s versions) — have been moved out into independent apps. If only it had more active users!The mess in Twitter’s app is a reflection of the mess that their management is in, confused over which direction to take Twitter in. Yet, despite the confusion, they managed to produce a better app than Facebook.How much better can Twitter do with their app? They couldn’t find a better starting point than PS: The initial draft of this post had a few more, non-Facebook, UI/UX points. However, given this one is already long enough to require a tl;dr, I’ve moved the remaining points to a new post.Like Loading…Walked up Kilimanjaro, cycled Ronde, sat through CAT  GMAT. Tweet about technology, disruptions and my dog. Restless. 
Bike-hike-run-swim tweets 

Before I started using Spotify, I manage my music library manually. I’ll come clean that 96-98% of these MP3s are downloaded over torrents. My two main reasons are: not having enough money to buy every album and the hassle to convert it to a digital format (DRM free Albums aren’t that easy to find that time). I don’t like the hassle of managing my music by track, one by one (with a few exceptions of course). The reason why I download music by album.I’ve read several articles that made me somewhat aware how hard for artists and bands make money, especially out of their albums alone. So when The first few months was awesome. It is! It was definitely easier to manage almost everything. The synced, seamless experience of being able to listen to my favorite albums and tunes in any of my devices, even offline! With this experience, I have managed to convert a few friends to use Spotify just by sharing it.Everything seems great, until the inevitable stuff and updates happened.I eventually loved the tracks without even knowing the titles since I already have it on my phone. Until Spotify updated the list, without any notification or confirmation If I want to download or replace the previous tracks. And just like that, my beloved running playlist was gone. Thanks Spotify!To Spotify: Why can’t we duplicate playlists instantly?Another frustrating part of their desktop client is the way you need to create a playlist before you can use the “Available Offline” feature. It was changed/updated because as far as I remember, I can pretty much use this feature with ease for every artist/bands or album that I like and love, and now? You just simply can’t.Here are the screens to prove it:So far, that’s most of the things that I want Spotify to solve. Users like me subscribed for the convenience of managing our music libraries, please make it so. Thanks!XOXO, Jan HaroldA Christian and a dropout that can do 5 things well. Interaction design, graphic design and front-end development. Yep, not so much in math.

It’s nearly ten years ago, since I joined a motley crew of academics, recruitment professionals and designers, to tackle the thorny question of defining the core competencies for User Experience (UX). Then, the low barriers to entry in that discipline were a concern to many; as now anyone who calls himself or herself a UX designer or researcher can practice. That’s good for growth but maybe dangerous for long term survival. Fortunately, some of those fears have gone, like will UX mature and grow into a visble job choice?: but others continue to be a worry for anyone wanting to be part of sustainable human-centred design and research profession.The good news is that since the iPhone launched UX is no longer obscure and unloved as it was back in the day of Usability Engineering (UE). Now it is hard to find, let alone imagine any organisation, that doesn’t see the need to deliver accessible, usable, rewarding and engaging products and services; Whether cool or not; UX and Service Design projects are usually sorted and done through good old UE methods; it’s just the names that have changed.The growth of UX is great and is a reason we are glued to our phones and tablets all the time. And why we have UX Baristas and Songwriters. But hang on coffee brewing and hard design work? NO.The exponentional growth of UX means that less savvy employers, who have less experience in the field than the Internet giants, now have to recruit user experience people with little help, ill-defined role descriptions and a lack of industry relevant university courses and standards. A lot of time was invested in defining competencies and methods in the early days of UX, but lets be honest the speed of commercial adoption outstripped what was then a primarily academic discipline.That disconnect between everyday practice and the scientific traditions of HCI and ergonomics should be a worry to all of us, but usually its academics who get the stick for being too academic (sic) while less scrupulous people in the industry use the veil of pseudo science to bag clients and gain the kudos of heroes like Ehn and Milford: that few would name drop today. The fear that seasoned professionals have, that UX has become dumbed-down and its substantive value undermined is well founded. Unfortunately the train has left the station – UX has gone large.This shift became very clear to me when volunteering to help underprivileged teenagers get on the digital gravy train. And genuine good luck to all joining the new Industrial Revolution. Oh well — I ran the same kind of ideation and framing exercises I would with these kids as I would with any client or team. Guess what? I was amazed at the level of innovation and quality of output by people who had never been to design school, but importantly had grown up with touchscreens and Facebook. The digital spectacle is more “disruptive” and hegemonic than any Tanky or Modernist might have every dreamed of Winston.The experience of democratized design, convinced me that, yes anyone can do UX. Just like anyone can make a film, soundtrack or write a book nowadays. If you don’t believe me check out the number of people who do UX for a living, the number of apps in the world and the shortly to end professions like Law and Taxi Driving. Of course doing something at all, like design or driving and doing something brilliantly is a different thing, but I stand by my claim that the maturity of technology has and must shift UX as a profession — and generally that is opening it up from a small band of experts to well everyone. And let’s leave aside the growth of opinion on everything and anything that’s killed brilliant insight and erm; journalism and writing.For ubiquitous usability to happen, the products and services we use everyday, must be highly addictive. And for the most part they are, because if they are not the companies behind them will fail. UX had helped breach tech unbridled and now UX is centre stage, a business critical profession that is unlikely to change substantially. Of course, the discipline will evolve and become even more tightly coupled to data including analytics and market research.At the same time there are newer competing design and marketing fields vying for the attention of businesses and the media including CX, MRX and Service Design. I believe none of the constituent fields will win out on their own which brings me to my personal need to reposition what I do as Design Science. I don’t want to create something new but I do want to surface the key principles of what I do through what its called and Design + Science does a better job than UX designer or UX researcher monikers, especially like many of us I do both research and design. Service Design should have won out but so should have Durutti. Unfortunately Service Design is largely disconnected from the experience of everyday life while the tech monopolies overdetermine it. True ServiceDesign cases studies are rare ergo projects, clients and Erm…value. The advantages of the Design Science tag is that it is:Implicitly humanistic;Aligns to a scientific discipline and uses the empirical method of experimentation, in the service of design;Frames design holistically — goes beyond usability and generic use qualities;Extends beyond the interface, product or service; andDelivers tangible change and not just blue sky thinking but value.John Knight, Design Scientist, 2015The Original Design Games™ Inventor.

Since when has UX become more about ‘delivering solutions’ for IT and business instead of asking question? Has creating UX assets and citing UX research become more important than spending time understanding users?I have watched as many designers and developers have become disillusioned by the Agile methodologies that were supposed to make developing IT products and services a collaborative, engaging and dynamic progression. Inadvertently playing planning poker has become a high-stakes game where developer reputations and even careers are at stake if the task estimates don’t match with the delivery schedule. Since when has Agile become a justification for delivering more with less resources rather than a way to manage change and enable developers to work smarter and more effectively? For some reason we have become more reliant on the methods and tools to do the thinking for us, and we stopped asking questions about what it is that we are supposed to be doing.After constantly being bombarded with various opinions, comments, and suggestions from everyone but the users over the years, I realized that this job is not so much about providing answers (since everyone seems to have an equally important opinion) as it is about asking questions.And that’s the hard part: learning how to ask questions, in the right way, in hopes you can get that much closer to the truth. At times this can be as simple as the classic one-worder “Why?” Often, it is a much more complex challenge because finding out what you don’t know (but need to know) is almost just as tricky.Sometimes it is not even about asking the users questions as much as asking yourself some tough questions. So hopefully let’s ask some questions about UX:The advantage UX practitioners have these days in having so much readily available tools and resources means that you can hone your skills and fill gaps in knowledge with reference materials, online articles and research papers. Maybe you prefer exchanging ideas with your peers at conferences and seminars, or with colleagues at afterwork drinks or their desk when you walk by (debates and not arguments, hopefully) to get inspirations or swap problems and solutions.The real learning, however, will happen when you are out and about listening, watching and understanding people when they are not staring at the screen in a room being observed by UX people. The real experience is not gained by you staring at a screen trying to get wireframes and prototypes developed in time for the next sprint cycle.Despite what people may say, think, or tell you, UX practitioners are not mind readers. We’re communicators.80% of the job is to communicate ideas. People will expect wireframes, mockups, storyboards, user journeys, design guidelines, evaluation reports, and anything else that proves you have thought about and talked with the users. You will have Illustrator to design mockups, PowerPoint to generate prototypes, and Visio to create storyboards — it doesn’t matter what the tool is. What matters is what the process involves.Why does it take so much time and effort? It’s because part of our job is understanding things from a lot of different perspectives and then finding a way to communicate this to all the people involved in the UX design process. This might be the user, developer, designer, business stakeholders or even your fellow UX practitioners.You’ll have to put on your UX thinking cap, sometimes over your designer (or developer or researcher) cap, and sometimes not wear a cap at all. You will have to get inside the mind of people who work on different aspects of the project delivery and also step into their world by understanding the things that are relevant to them.This may seem overwhelming if your perception of UX is something closer to designing user interfaces and running A/B tests. But remember UX is not just about the tools and processes, it is a philosophy and a mindset that you have to embrace, and it compels you to try and get inside the mind of the users.Can you really do all of this inside the office?Education from from the “University of Hard Knocks” is just as good if not better than any formal training or qualifications. Now there is a It is easy to get lulled into a false sense of security, even arrogance with a degree or three under your belt, but in fact you have to know quite a lot just to realize how little you actually know. One way to bridge that gap is not being afraid to knock on doors — or to knock down doors — when the occasion calls for it.It is all well and good to follow the best practices and standard guidelines, but just as there is no ‘average user,’ there is no single set of rules in UX that is guaranteed to work, especially in this day and age where user behaviour and expectations evolve so rapidly.You do have to know the rules to know when to break them, and you should never assume anything in this field unless you have some solid evidence, not just references from textbooks or I have seen many ‘UX myths’ that have been proven or refuted through lots of research and testing, yet we all agree that users and their behaviours are context sensitive. Therefore why should we spend so much time going through standards and best practices when we could be out there in the field and be closer to the ‘truth’?To tell someone how to be a UX practitioner is not unlike telling someone how to live and experience life… there is no right or wrong answer, just decisions and consequences that for which you need to take responsibility.UX practitioners apply their knowledge and skills in a number of different disciplines, and therefore carry additional responsibility when it comes to ensuring that their work meets professional and ethical standards. Furthermore, the nature of our work and the impact it has on user behaviour, so UX practitioners may need to consider their responsibilities and commitment to ensure that unintended harm comes to the user.In saying that, the onus to maintain and uphold a standard code of ethics should rest on the shoulder of the UX practitioner rather than a piece of paper or document. Since the nature of our work varies between different organizations and projects, there isn’t really a prescribed set of standards, but a general guideline to how UX practitioners should think and behave in order to achieve the right balance for themselves and the organization they operate within.Often it is too easy to become pressured by managers or co-workers to overlook the details that we should be paying to, and the responsibilities we owe the end-users to advocate for their needs. Sometimes when the deadlines and resources become too unrealistic, and the expectations become too unreasonable, it takes conviction to stand for what you believe in.Yet if it still becomes too stressful or difficult, then it is probably time to step away and find another niche where you can enjoy the work and feel that you are fulfilling both your professional and ethical benchmarks.The suggestions and guidelines do not define what is acceptable or unacceptable in a UX practitioner’s professional conduct, nor is it intended to form the basis for decision making. Rather, through a continuous process of introspection and practical experience every UX practitioner should be comfortable with the risk and conflicts that they manage in their line of work, and communicate this explicitly to their collaborators and co-workers.Thinking like a user and being a user, not a designer, is one of the most difficult things to do as you learn more about UX design. Developing a deeper understanding and appreciation of UX design can make it more difficult to take an objective stand or to put personal views and ego aside, so you are guided by best practices and not opinions or assumptions.User don’t care about how things work as long as it does what they think it should. It frees your mind of the unnecessary clutter so you can focus more on the problem that you want to solve for the user. Technical details or design principles can sometimes become so much of a distraction that you end up trying to solve those problems instead.Of course, there will be the constant internal conflict between doing what the management thinks is right, what you think is right, and what is actually right by the users. You will need all your wits to negotiate and convince the stakeholders, courage to pick the right fights with the product manager and sales departments, and humility to know that nothing is perfect but everything can be improved.You need to find your own process to do things, your own reasons, motivations, and inspirations as a UX professional. There is no short cut to acquiring the knowledge and experience you are going to need. It is also not just about reading books or blogs or participating in forums. You will have to roll up your sleeves and get stuck into the research, design, and testing work — in as many different projects, organizations, and contexts as you can possible involve yourself in. Then you will begin to scratch the surface of just what the job involves.Had I asked myself all these questions before I embarked on the UX adventure, would I still have ended up where I am today? To be honest, learning more has meant realizing that I know less than I think I do, and through all the trials and tribulations I have recognized that there is a unique path for everyone in this field, and that following a well-trodden path is more likely to lead you away from where you probably want to go.Perhaps that’s all I really wanted to say at the beginning.The answer lies in the question(in association with the University of Hard Knocks Press)

Ara’s article on While the observations are true and work on the micro-level, they do not translate into valid conclusions when applied to the industry as a whole.Below you’ll find my response expressing my friendly but firm dissent (with a minor addition at the end).Yes, in the field of “traditional” web development a lot of standardisation is happening. Certain forms of content presentation work better than others. We’re not in the Wild West of the early days of the commercialised Internet. Blogs, eCommerce platforms, “Social Networks” have created a visual vocabulary that is shared and understood by many users.It is no coincidence libraries and frameworks like Bootstrap, Foundation and Skeleton have taken the web by storm and will reign supreme in the near future. In addition to providing a consistent experience across devices and screen sizes, they also provide a shared UI vocabulary.Looking at the Yahoo landing page now and understanding how it wasn’t optimal by today’s standard is like comparing cars over the course of their century-long evolution. Of course airbags and turning signals make sense When Now touch devices offer a plethora of interaction methods, from pinching to Apple’s forcetouch–yet users have barely embraced swiping.There is no Thus, for as long as we will come up with ways to use technology to meet (or create) future user expectations, there will be obvious and not-so-obvious cases where UX reconsiderations are required.Anyone who has ever built enterprise-grade software or even an app with a moderate level of complexity knows that optimisation mostly happens And continuous wing-making, in my holy opinion, is the future of UX.I see things that other things don’t. 

T30 minutes isn’t long so beforehand we made sure like all good stories we had a beginning, middle and end.From the get go our UX luminaries showed their frustration with the term UX. They felt it was more of an overarching term used to group together a set of practices and tools to create better experiences for customers and businesses rather than one single thing.With one of the panel citing it as a ‘bullshit term’ being banded around by people who often don’t know what they are talking about.To some extent I have to agree with them but in danger of being one of those people I wanted to add my own definition.I really think it is as simple as that. As much as people get excited by the set of tools: wireframes, user journeys, research, personas etc. They are really just that. A bunch of tools a UX designer implements to reach that goal “…an experience with true value”In all honesty the frustration from the first point then spilled over into this and like any good conversation we bounced back and forwards between what UX is and process. The main consensus was that you have a set of tools (as mentioned above). And you choose the right ones for the job and get on with it. Most of all you listen to both stakeholders and customers.I think a really important point mentioned by Most of all be prepared to pivot on the original idea for a better one found through new insights that your UX practice will bring. The whole panel couldn’t cite a single project where they hadn’t. This floored me. I really thought the whole panel would tell us how they use UX to set them apart from competitors, how much of a money spinner it is and how they hard sell it into clients.Infact they do the opposite.From what I can gather clients don’t really want to know about it. Infact if you talk about it too much they get turned off pretty fast. They just want the job to be done and our panel said UX is just part of ‘our normal process’, there is infact no need to make a big song and dance about it.The approach that works best is “we are going to create XYZ for you” and then get on with it. Rather than go through in detail which each discipline is and its benefits. Clients are pretty bright, treat them as such.Though VERB Richard. VERB.Infant ‘The Future of UX’You can get a little flavour of it from his presentation at I particularly liked the apple tree quip, though I’ve probably said too much.Designer.Dreamer.Creator

O que é um profissional de UX? Se você for responder rápido, você vai dizer: “É o mano (ou a mana) que faz o Wireframe do projeto.” Essa resposta é no mínimo incompleta. O profissional de UX é responsável por muito mais que isso. O Wireframe é na verdade uma resposta representativa de todo um trabalho prévio de pesquisa, organização e garimpo de informação junto com usuários e clientes. Há uma preocupação muito forte com fluxo de conteúdo e principalmente fluxo de navegação, além de juntar especificar a função e comportamento do sistema. Por isso, meça suas palavras, parça. UX não é o cara que Na verdade, esse texto é mais um desaforismo. A sigla UX é formada pelas palavras Na minha opinião, quem nós chamamos de UX hoje, deveria ser chamado de outro nome. Eu gosto muito de chamar de Arquiteto de Informação. Mas esse nome também não é perfeito, pois ele contempla apenas uma parte do trabalho. Mesmo assim, ele consegue englobar boa parte das atribuições. O Arquiteto de Informação é aquele cara que vai filtrar as informações importantes junto dos clientes, usuários, donos de produto e também dos devs. É ele que vai priorizar quais informações e ações são mais importantes que outras. É ele que vai dizer onde cada coisa precisa ir. É ele que vai brigar defendendo o fluxo de navegação, fluxo de conteúdo etc etc. É o que o profissional de UX atual faz boa parte do tempo, e logo depois de tudo isso, ele representa esses dias de estudo e pesquisa no produto final, que geralmente é o Wireframe.Outro problema são o profissionais da área de UX que se auto-denominam designers. Eles desenham sim, mas o contexto é outro. O papel do Designer é muito claro, até mais claro que o do profissional de UX. Mas não vale chamá-lo de Designer. E por favor, nem me venha falar que o certo é chamar o Designer de UI.Esse negócio de nomenclatura dos cargos está ficando bem confuso no mercado de web. Chamam front-end de front-end, mas back-end chamam de Desenvolvedor. Front-end não é desenvolvedor? Todos envolvidos no Para mim, existem apenas dois lados no mercado de web, mais especificamente na parte de desenvolvimento técnico (aposto que você leu técnico e pensou em programadores): existe a área onde se executa o desenho. E a outra área onde se executa a função. Na área do desenho, ficam todos aqueles que estejam envolvidos em fluxos, interface, arquitetura e estrutura de layouts, guias visuais etc etc etc. Na área de função, ficam os responsáveis pela área de programa, que vai cuidar de fazer coisas funcionarem da melhor maneira possível. Não importa aqui se o cara manja de JavaScript ou Ruby. Na área de desenho, o cara pode manjar de JavaScript par fazer os comportamentos, por exemplo.Na área de UX, comparada com outras áreas de internet, é um misto de profissionais. Tem empresas que contratam profissionais como psicólogos e sociólogos para entenderem melhor seu cliente usuário. Esses tipo de profissional conhece muito mais sobre pessoas do que qualquer profissional de UX. Eles são UX, então? Mas claro que são. Afinal de contas, eles cuidam e estão preocupados com a experiência dos usuários. Mas eles não deixaram de ser psicólogos ou sociólogos.Por favor, entenda: a minha briga aqui é com o nome UX e não com o que esse profissional faz.Contudo, eu reitero: TODOS cuidam do UX do projeto, pelo simples motivo de que todos se preocupam e cuidam da experiência do usuário, de acordo com as suas tarefas. Não há um profissional específico dono desse título.Tentando ser menos besta e arrogante.

Since I started reading about UX and habit forming products, I discovered that there is much more to UX than just screens.The reason I am saying this is because most of the designers I dealt with focus only on the # of screens and the elements on each screen, while I discovered — yes discovered — that to design the UX of an app you have to consider lots and lots of scenarios that no UX designer ever talked about.I think this problem is bigger when it comes to non-technical founders where they mostly don’t know anything about this and the person who is supposed to design their UX and increase conversion, engagement, and viralty is not caring about it at all.The purpose is to eventually reach complete engagement cycles for the different personas using your app. Each of those cycles start with a convenient trigger (Internal-External) and ends up with an achieved goal.Egyptian Software Product Manager @ Booking.coma collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

– Oi, eu sou o Fulano, UX Designer começando hoje no projeto.– Legal! Eu sou o Beltrano, gerente de projetos. Muito legal ter você no time.– Bacana. Como eu posso ajudar?– Então, nós desenhamos uma primeira versão do app, mas agora queremos fazer a UX pra dar uma melhorada… As pessoas estão baixando o app, usando uma vez, mas depois nunca mais.Uma boa experiência de uso depende:– Faço, faço a UX sim. Precisa emitir nota fiscal?Fernanda tinha três UX na bolsa, e deu uma UX para o Maurício. Com quantas UX Fernanda ficou?UX é igual a experiência do usuário. Essa, por sua vez, pode ser boa ou ruim (no exemplo acima, provável que esteja ruim). Nenhum designer tem uma varinha mágica que “adiciona UX” em uma interface (como se estivesse adicionando açúcar na receita do bolo). A UX já está lá — o problema é que ela está tornando a vida dos usuários miserável.É como se você visse por aí um curso para arquitetos de “aprenda a construir sobrados”. Ignore se o sobrado tem 60m2 ou 6000. Ignore se é para uma pessoa só ou para uma família de oito pessoas. Ignore se é comercial ou residencial, também. Se é construído num morro do Rio de Janeiro ou numa planície na Islândia. Ah, ignore também se ele vai ser feito de pau-a-pique ou paredes pré-fabricadas — em um fim de semana você vai estar pronto para construir sobrados em qualquer situação.– Três parcelas de R$250,00.– Aceita Paypal?Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

The majority of UX designers have online portfolios. It’s an essential component of getting your next design job. Many recruiters won’t even consider you without seeing example projects and the process of how you came up with those awesome design solutions.Most portfolios consist of text and flat graphics. That is, photos or screenshots of the design at different stages, from sketches to finalized product. While this is great, let’s face it, it’s not going to make you stand out from the crowd. It’s time to move your portfolio up a gear and to embrace video. There are many ways in which you can do this, from the simple to the sophisticated.The easiest way to create a video is to use software that is usually packaged with your computer for free. For Mac users, Upload the video to your server or to somewhere like If you have the time, skills or the friends to help you, think about taking it a little further. Budding Like any design project, it’s essential to create a storyboard. This is a series of drawings describing what is shown to the viewer at any time. Align this with the accompanying narrative, describe the transitions and duration of each frame on the storyboard.The components for your video can be generated with an assortment of equipment and other tools. A Once you are done, upload the video as above described. Be aware that in order to create something really engaging, it might take a couple of days to complete. Therefore it’s worth doing a more sophisticated video for the project you’re most proud of or one that will appeal most to employers. It will be worth it, trust me. Not only will you learn new skills, you will have created something to set you out from the crowd and you never know, Hollywood might come knocking.Best of luck and be sure to send us your videos when you’re ready. We’ll get the popcorn ready.— — — —If you want to move on up in your UX career, pop in over to UXswitch is about putting the Experience in to finding a UX job. Your wish list is matched with only the best UX recruiters  employers. For UXers, by UXers

I have worked on a few conferences in my day. Either as a speaker, co-chair, or committee member — not just in the design world either. So when I say that I have felt this for some time, but last night as we did a run through of just one of the four themes, I experienced for myself what we’ve been hoping to happen for everyone who is attending — the Lou Rosenfeld, our ring leader, has had the clearest vision that our program needs to both be created as a conversation, and needs to include moments of conversation and these two principles have been driving our curation and our crafting of the format of the conference. So last night our During the dry-run they gave their talk pitch, gave each other feedback, decided the right order they should go in and then proceeded to give their talks where everyone was able to critique each other, facilitated by a theme owner. This all happened almost 2 months before the event. And listening in the whole time is a speaker coach, to boot.One thing that has highlighted this process as being unique, is when one of our very experience speakers asked the question, “Is it normal for you folks to have your 1st draft of your presentations done months in advance of the conference?” Seriously, I have had one instance where talks were reviewed by the organizer before hand and given great comments. Thank you Jared Spool. I learned so much back then. Never has it occurred though that a group of speakers at a conference were not just encouraged to communicate as they may during a panel, but required to work together to craft actual talks across a theme like this is happening.So after last night I wanted to share this experience with y’all. I wanted you to have some insight into how we are crafting this event and why we feel it will be a special experience.Each speaker wasn’t just sent an invite, but rather invited to a We are providing each speaker the option of making use of a speaker coach. Even the most experienced people can learn a ton from a good coach. This will help our speakers tell better stories, have better presence, and be more focused in their content and presentations.Since the conference is already on a niche topic it doesn’t have its own theme, but we strove to create a narrative broken up by four themes or chapters. This allows the speakers to engage in a more focused away along shared experiences and goals and we hope will give attendees guidance in how to focus their conversations in and outside of the hall.We are focused on specific audience. More precisely we have said from the beginning this event is not for practitioners at all levels, but we are focused on senior level practitioners and leaders within design, research, development and product management.We made sure that each theme had an owner who was a renowned expert in that area of practice and theory. They are responsible for keeping the theme coherent, managing the internal narrative of that theme, and synthesizing the conversation among the speakers in that theme and then during the conversation facilitating that conversation among themselves and the great audience of the conference.Speakers within any given theme are collaborating with each other to make sure that their talks map against the theme narrative. They have been reflexively creating the narrative together. Their talks are actively complimenting each other with the goal of creating a greater discourse.It will mean a better conference experience. Given that this event is a single track, 2-day event the attendee of Enterprise UX will experience a cohesive narrative broken down into distinct, consumable, pertinent, relevant, and well structured chapters. Further, they will be engaged in a shared discourse as there will be ample opportunity, both in the hall, and outside the hall to engage speakers and each other around these topics.So for reading this not only are you inspired to attend this amazing inaugural event, but you are incented to attend with this great discount code: MALOUF15. It will get you 15% off the full registration cost. Dave Malouf is the Principal Experience Strategist at HP Helion Cloud. He loves designing, traveling, teaching, observing, and playing.a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

Imagine you’re a surgeon operating on a kidney. You’re focused intently on that kidney, but you can’t forget there’s a whole patient beneath the white sheet on that table. You’re not looking at the lungs, or the heart. You’ve got a kidney to transplant, friend, and that’s plenty. But if you don’t monitor the heart and lungs — if you don’t remember that there’s a whole patient under that white sheet — you’ve got a well-installed kidney in a cadaver.Similarly, UX designers sometimes take on a design problem and apply This issue manifests in big ways and small. It could be a nice new button style that’s inconsistent with other buttons on the website, which might gradually lead to a Frankensite. Or it could be a (big, expensive) new feature that hasn’t been properly integrated into the user’s workflow, which neuters what might’ve been a much-improved user experience. The classic information architecture example? “Let’s put a link to it in the global nav.”So, how does Designing pages, or elements on a page, without designing the entire user flow is a classic UX pitfall. Basically, that’s confusing the UI with the UX. At FreshBooks, we use a few tools to steer clear of this problem:We use task flow diagrams and scenarios that describe how users will get to the feature we’re working on, and what comes after using it. Of course this is pretty standard, but it’s important to resist the temptation to cut corners and jump directly to the UI design.Every Thursday is testing day at FreshBooks, and when we conduct usability tests of our designs, we test scenarios and flows, not just screens. The design leaders at the table are responsible for calling this out, too — we’ll throw out test results if they don’t encompass a realistic user flow.If we’re modifying a modal window that lets users, say, edit a message to a customer, we won’t simply test the modal. We’ll test how users get to the Invoice section of the app, whether and how they trigger the modal, how they interact with it, and what they do when their task is complete.And once the results are in, we get together as a team to discuss them.The surgeon’s not alone in the operating room. There’s a team working together, and they talk to each other about critical information (one hopes!).At FreshBooks, we have regular meetings to make sure we’re sharing information within and across teams. We’re not perfect at it, and we’ve never seen a company that is, but here’s how we manage information flow.Product development is organized by tribes — groups that have several teams, working towards a common goal. Each team has (at least) a product manager, a scrum master, developers, a QA analyst, and a designer. And each team follows our Lean UX process:Our circles are essential to keeping an eye on the bigger picture UX. Circles include all the tribe’s designers and product managers. This way, the PM’s and other designers can call out potential problems or inconsistencies that we might miss when our heads are in Sketch or Illustrator. And since, at FreshBooks, every new employee spends their first month as part of the support team, everybody’s very familiar with the product and its patterns.The entire FreshBooks design team also meets for weekly critiques, splitting off from our separate teams and coming together to put our work in front of (only) other designers. That, too, helps us stay abreast of what each team is working on, and where our project fits in. And our fellow designers will help us stay on pattern, and keep track of larger UX flows and goals.Some workplaces appoint someone to keep a team aware of the organizational vision and strategy, and how their work fits within it. Usually, that’s a UX Manager, UX Director, or Creative Director. We have those roles too, but nothing tops great group dynamics.In our weekly design charrettes, we come to the table with some key information. Once we’ve defined the problem we’re trying to solve, we ask, “How have we…?” In other words, have we already solved this problem? Are there existing We also ask, “How have others…?” That is, we look at how others have solved a similar problem. Are there patterns that have worked for others that we might adopt?We use those patterns as inspiration for the next step when we ask, “How might we…?” That question is a powerful conversation-starter that can spur innovative thinking.So whatever our team comes up with is grounded in patterns — both within the context of our site and within our competitive landscape.Our Lean UX process keeps us continuously testing and delivering. This means that surprises — and there are always surprises — are just part of the workflow.We monitor — both during our design sprints and after we launch, through metrics — and we adjust the design when we find an issue. Part of the beauty of Lean UX is that we know we’re never locked into one unsuccessful idea.So, that link to the blog in the global nav that seemed so important a couple of months ago? Is anyone clicking on it? Is it distracting users from other links in the nav? Can we test that?The fact is, we all get fixated on what’s in front of us.This is necessary; as designers, we need focus. We’re asked to perform surgery, and that white sheet and bright light help us do our best work.But at FreshBooks we believe in a healthy balance — designers can introduce changes to the user experience while harmonizing with the overall experience. They find ways to make changes seamless, even delightful, for our users.Our team has found that the key to keeping the big picture UX in mind is collaboration. We’ve found that tools and practices that keep us talking and sharing with one another have helped us at every step of the design process.We still work on improving this every day, and we’d love to hear how others keep the big picture UX in mind.Jeff Kraemer is a Principal UX Designer at FreshBooks.Product, Design, and Development at FreshBooksProduct, Design, and Development at FreshBooks

Last week, I had the opportunity to attend the If you want an audience to experience something specific, give them a clue by giving them a cue. The only thing artist and musician This completely changed my experience. Without that cue, I more than likely would’ve enjoyed the piece just fine. With the cue, I felt as if I was being transported, truly experiencing the music. This reminded me how important creating Throughout the performances and workshops, I was reminded of how much I don’t see. Whether it be the harp that seemingly transformed the room, wearing a virtual reality (VR) system to immerse myself in a simulator to see what it is like to fly like a bird, or the history and current practices of the store I’ve been to Story countless times and hearing Founder, I was in The rest of us dove right into the duct tape and began designing. We had so much fun with it and, before we knew it, we were chatting with one another about work, making new friends and doing exactly what Todd wanted us to do: stop trying to think so much, just have fun and actually create something. If you ever wanted an easy DIY project for the weekend, I highly recommend giving this a shot!That was just the first day! Day Two kicked off with FoST for Good sessions with Following their talks, I attended the All this was followed by more insirping, eye-opening workshops. You get the point… It is important to feed your soul. Find events like Future of Storytelling to surround yourself with people who think like you and are open to creating new friendships to create a better world. No excuses, just pure inspiration.Conferences are a great way to learn and be inspired by others who may or may not be in the same industry. They help you learn processes and help build connections that may benefit your business,. However, I believe that getting to know your customer and their frustrations will always do more for your product/service, and one of the best ways to do that is to create a journey map. You can click below to see how we use journey maps to help find the problems worth solving for our clients!You can also follow Motivate Design on Twitter discover // design // disrupt // 

Do we really need another food delivery service? No, we don’t but that’s not why I think Maple is sticky (pardon the pun). What makes Maple sticky is great UX: from before you knew you were hungry, until you’ve eaten your last bite of seared edamame and quinoa salad. Here’s what Maple does exceedingly well to grab customers (like our extremely excited team members below) and hold on:Every day, at 11:15am, I get an email from Maple with their lunch selections for the day. Then, at 5:15pm, I get their dinner selections. In both cases there are a limited number of choices. Four to be exact; No more, no less. Enough to fit in an email message that I can scan quickly, and each with its own call to action and a price that serves as a reminder of how inexpensive it is (lunch is always $12). Doing so allows Maple to deliver on quality and price everyday.That means, at just about the time I start to get hungry, they are providing me with a solution to a problem. I am now getting the chance to order without any hassle.David Chang is well known in these parts (New York). Momofuko was an upstart Food Truck that became an upstart restaurant, that grew into a multi-location dining experience group. Getting Mr. Chang to sign on as “Chief Culinary Officer” means that all of the upstart qualities that he brought to the street can now come to your desk at work. On top of that, this guy knows how to create maximal experience with minimal resources. However, if you visit their website, there is nothing about David, or anyone else for that matter. The digital experience is all about what’s cooking, not about who’s cooking it.Once I have signed up with a credit card and location, there are only three clicks between me and my food. If someone actually carried me into a deli and back I’d still have to do more work. Even Seamless, the emperor of the lazy lunch, has more choices than I need.I feel like I’m actually making good choices by sitting at my desk.The visual experience of Maple is modern and minimal. It’s a good example of how the minimalist dogma can be both a blessing and a curse for companies that rely on a digital experience to be their voice. Maple hosts a website and mobile apps for iOS and Android. Both apps and website can be appreciated for being well designed, no-fuss, utilities for ordering food quickly. The site is there for no other reason than to display the dishes; reflecting the same economy that can be found in Maple’s dish, delivery, and service design. These dishes are the exception to an otherwise sparse visual experience.Each plate is given its own “glamour” portrait. (This is, after all, the point.) In this respect, the site is a little more than a frame for the food, rather than a menu or entrée to the company. With the limited number of options, there is plenty of room for creating a visual experience that is simple to use and also delightfully engaging. A great meal accesses all of our senses and Maple’s minimal aesthetic creates space to let your eyes feast, but information beyond the plate can be frustratingly hard to find (such as; “who is it that’s making my food”?).So, the hungry visitor is well served by the large images, which double as giant buttons. This alleviates the need for superfluous calls to action (“Order Now!”) which can seem forced and significantly streamlines the ordering process.Three clicks and you’ve ordered your food, and on your way you are presented with some nice (and minimal) icons indicating what’s actually going into the food.Unfortunately there isn’t much else for Maple fans to see if they want to learn more about the company or the discerning diner who wants to know more about the food they’re eating. This is a missed opportunity for Maple to further distinguish itself from its peers. As a “digital restaurant” Maple can excel with its data sources by showing customers some of the useful and interesting information that it has the power to collect. Information, such as where ingredients are sources, typically end up deep within a typical restaurant’s site (if anywhere). By removing the typical accoutrement of brick-and-mortar, Maple is taking a step toward getting out of the customer’s way. But Maple has plenty of space to explore ways to connect their customers with their food. They shouldn’t squander their first-mover advantage by ignoring the data that they have at their disposal.The folks at Maple realize that workplace culture is changing — and workerbee dining is changing with it. The attributes of a “great dining experience” is changing as those traditional places become more scarce and crowded, and as workplaces strive to be where people actually want to spend time. We might not be able to enjoy a three martini lunch in a white tablecloth bistro, but we can have a nice meal prepared and brought to our desk. I’ll have a few minutes of peace at my desk over a bed of field greens. Thank you.Maple broke into an entirely new market because they understood what the customer needed instead of what they thought they wanted. If you want more insight into how we helped one of our own clients understand their shoppers then click below to see our research methods in action!You can also follow us on Twitter discover // design // disrupt // 

How do you evaluate just how committed a tech company is to UX? You might be in the middle of the interview process and you want to know what life will really be like on the inside. Or you might currently be in a company like the one I describe below and you’re not sure how to evaluate whether to stay.Below are 10 hard-won and very specific red-flags that the company you are dealing with isn’t really committed to UX yet. And if you currently work for a company like this you have to decide whether you’re up for the difficult challenge of changing their culture or moving on to a company that is more committed to UX (they do exist).1. During the interview are they asking you to “clean up our interfaces” because “they are a mess” OR are they asking you to come up with the overall flow, vision and bonus: do they expect you to do customer visits and usability testing?2. When you mention you always do research before a design is their response “we’ll get to that eventually but we can’t right now.”3. Does Design (any discipline of design), B.A. (Business Analysis), or god-forbid Product report to engineering, the VP of engineering or a CTO (this really happens).4. Do they not have a formal Product Manager at their company and I don’t mean Product Owner. (lol bonus red-flag: Do they not know the difference between Product Manager and Product Owner? super yikes)5. Was the company started by an engineer who has little to no business savvy (this is very common in Utah) if so RUN AWAY FAST.6. Do they actually have dedicated front-end developers (UI engineers, Web Designers or whatever you call them) or are the back-end programmers also doing all the front-end development?7. When you say a design will take a month is their response “oh gosh no we don’t have time for that we need stuff today.”8. Have they done a usability test ever in the entire time they’ve been in business?9. Are they asking you to code your own designs (for example: you design it in Sketch and then you build it yourself in HTML/CSS/et.all)?10. Are they asking you to actually design in HTML (design with code) and not in some kind of drawing program or sketching process? (Or god-forbid are they asking you to design in an IDE’s interface builder?)And just because I’ve seen so many, here are some bonus red-flags:11. When they describe your job requirements are they actually describing what a traditional graphic designer does? For example, do they say the phrase “We need someone who can make it pretty.”12. Did someone at the company with no design experience “try” to design their interfaces and failed miserably but still to this day thinks they nailed it?If you run into these red-flags be warned you are entering or are currently in an environment that is not really committed to UX yet. But that doesn’t mean you have to quit or not take the job. It just means you’re going to be spending a great deal of time fighting for UX versus actually doing UX. It can be very rewarding to change a culture to love and fully commit to UX, but this challenge is not for the feint of heart and especially not for someone who just wants to spend their day designing.Senior User Experience Designer at Dealertrack.com, Movie Lover

There is no UX problem or ambiguity with a link. You assume it will open in the same window and if you do not want that then you hold cmd (or ctrl for Windows) as you click it. A simple, easy process. Alternatively, you could right click it and be given myriad choices.This solution adds a layer of inconvenience. You would be given three choices every time you followed a link. Also, the mockup above assumes that the link is within text with no other line above. Would it still work as neatly over more text, or even an image link?I am a Graphic/Web designer from Manchester.

One of the definite advantages of being a part of an acceleration program is the permanent contact with other teams (or at least the permanent access to them). Since designers are scarce here at Surprisingly I did like the way those conversations went: there were no speculations on typography and color, no look, no feel, no round (or squared!) corners — nothing of what is profusely called “visual design”.We talked bare substance: what is the user flow, what are the hierarchy of user needs, how do you structure the content? It is not that founders are ready This observation made me even more assured that the fundamentals of UX (or product design) is pure information architecture, the way you design your product’s structure and provide an access to your content. Which basically means thatIf you are lucky to have a designer on board, make sure he or she is able to think as an information architect who questions product logic and keeps it consistent. Having no one in the team responsible for a clear information environment reduces your product’s chance of getting to work to freezing zero. Even with rounded corners.Channelkit co-founder, product and information designer, bull terrier ownerThoughts on organising digital stuff and work. By Channelkit co-founders.

We recently launched We didn’t know what to do. After all, who are we to tell people if their company is a UX company or not? You see UX has a broad meaning. It encompasses many different disciplines from Human Factors  Ergonomics to Computer Science and Architecture.But, perhaps we could all agree on Now that you’ve read this list, do you still think you should be in UXdesignin.be? If yes, then what are you waiting for?UX Designer at Central — aspiring climber, biker, bread-maker apprentice, flâneurWe help international companies design and optimize digital products. 

In a time when dev teams are moving (or have already moved) towards an Agile software development methodology, why aren’t more design teams moving towards a Lean UX design process? Innumerable new products come onto the scene everyday, which is why it’s becoming more important than ever for designers to be able to move quickly. One of the best ways to do this is by focusing on designing for an More likely than not, you’ve already heard about the concept of an MVP. In case you haven’t, it’s essentially an idea in its simplest form that provides the shortest path to validated learning. This focus on learning is a big break from traditional UX design practices, which usually focuses on features and feature sets. As In essence, MVPs are the embodiment of all the best practices associated with Agile and Lean UX. These include an emphasis on collaboration and delivery (Agile) as well as measuring and validating product/market fit (Lean). Naturally, these are all great practices to implement with your whole team, but it’s worth noting that the ability to design effectively for MVPs is an especially great measure of general skill level for UX designers.Having a holistic understanding of the concept of an MVP is a good place to start, but you need to have an understanding of its components in order to be able to effectively design for it. While the traditional UX model asks us to think about the design of a product holistically, Lean UX practices leave room for inevitable changes in plans. In line with this approach, MVPs allow us to take measured steps which can easily change according to what is learned through testing and iteration. However, choosing what type of MVP to create can be tricky because the focus of an MVP isn’t on the feature set, but on learning. While there is no one absolute correct way to create an MVP, here’s what it generally involves:Understand what kinds of assumptions you’re making in relation to your product — these usually relate to your presumed customers and problem definition. Out of all of your assumptions, identify the riskiest one, which you will test first. The riskiest assumption is the one that has to be true in order for your product to succeed, and yet is most likely to be false — in other words, it’s your hypothesis. While this might seem like a painful process, it’s important to go through because the sooner you do it, the sooner you can identify assumptions that are invalid and pivot to a solution that works. You might even find that a problem you assumed was widespread doesn’t actually exist (e.g. what’s the point of the Segway?)Once you’ve formulated your hypothesis, create the simplest design possible that will effectively test it. Contrary to popular belief, you don’t always have to “build” your product in order to accomplish this. There’s a wide variety of methods you can utilize to test your hypothesis. You can go with something super simple, like an interactive prototype using programs like PowerPoint/Keynote or To test his assumption, Ryan and his friend talked to many coffee shop owners and managers. They very quickly found that the owners and managers didn’t see long lines as a problem. In fact, some even saw long lines as positive because they signaled high-demand and quality to potential customers.In the unlikely event that your first assumption is correct, test your next riskiest assumption. Most likely, your initial hypothesis will be invalid, in which case you should repeat steps #1 and #2: go back to the drawing board and reevaluate your problem definition and target audience, then test your new hypothesis.After their riskiest assumption was invalidated, Ryan and his friend returned to the drawing board. The big thing is that they didn’t end up wasting a lot of time — they only had to spend two hours to figure out that they had a shitty idea.In the end, you’ll probably end up using more than one approach to testing and iterating on your assumptions, so don’t feel like you have to limit yourself at the outset. You just have to look for the approach that offers the most learning at the lowest cost and best tests your riskiest assumptions. One of the most important things to keep in mind throughout the MVP creation process is that more often than not, your first idea won’t be your final idea. Nokia started out as a paper mill in Finland, Twitter was originally a podcasting company called Odeo…you get the idea.UX designer a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

We at I thought that it would be fun to share the list with the wider world. Disclaimer: You may not agree with our list. But that’s the whole point — and I am shamelessly going to use the asshole’s defence: “I’m just trying to start a debate”.Time and again, we see the same project train barrelling towards the feature bridge, only for the bloat banditos to dynamite it. The most effective apps, products or sites perform a seriously limited set of functions. This has a double effect: Firstly it’s super-easy to explain what it is to the user before they even open it — so you get more people through the door. Secondly, there is a straightforward learning curve for the user, so you’re much more likely to get the UX right first time.As an example, Colour is something that is incredibly powerful when used correctly. However, you shouldn’t rely on using colour alone to mean something. Around 10% of men are red-green colour-blind, so you need to be really careful around things like traffic light systems. This means pairing colour with iconography or copy, or both. You may be proud of your Look, I know, copy is not sexy. For a lot of visually-oriented people, they’d rather not have to read at all. But when it’s done right, copy can make the difference between a good app and a great app.Take Slack for example, the enterprise messaging tool that You may be noticing a pattern here. I’m sorry to bang on about it, but icons on their own are not necessarily the best way to go. Think of a label on an icon as a safety net. You may think the hamburger menu icon is universally understood, or that everyone is now aware of the jack-in-the box share icon. But they’re not. Think about the people who have only just got a smartphone. Children. My mum only joined Facebook last year. People are still learning about these things.Also you should consider that not everyone who accesses the internet can actually see, or see well. There are plenty of visually impaired people who use a screenreader, or need to seriously jack up the font size to be able to read text. What use to them is a beautifully rendered retina-resolution icon if there is no label?I’ve already mentioned a few of the accessibility issues — text with icons and using colour to convey meaning, but there are plenty more to be aware of. For example, have you stopped to consider if your application has enough contrast? This is a common cause of conflict between “beautiful” design and “effective” design.What about people who can’t use pointing devices? There are plenty of those. If you can’t use all of the functionality on your web app with the keyboard alone then you are not meeting accessibility standards.If you want to find out more about accessibility standards, a good place to start is the Sketch really helps you to be organised and create re-usable components. It has a great community who are actively writing plugins. Compared to illustrator it’s super cheap, so what’s not to love?Vector graphics for the win. There is basically no such thing as pixel-perfect design anymore, unless you are designing for a highly specific device. This means that we should be taking advantage of them as much as possible. Let me count the ways that SVGs are sweet:The disadvantage: Will not work on IE8, the RGB is how our devices work — there are red, green and blue pixels all combining to make the colours we see on our screen. HSL is a much better reflection of how human beings work — we see different colours as the same and Markdown is great, markdown is wicked, markdown walks in truth and light and is blessed upon this earth. It creates lovely readable readmes in github, it’s easy to remember and to use, and even A favourite for when we want to worry about things like the choice of This is a Ugh. This is what people who have never tried to make anything say. It is utterly meaningless. You may as well say “make it better” or “make it more successful”.Far better to consider the options for making something more striking. Does it need more contrast? Is the typography right? Is the visual hierarchy correct? These are all questions you should ask, right after you have hit the person who said this with a lead pipe.This is a major offence under the Unnecessary Hiding of Content Act 2015. Why are you keeping lovely hi-res images from me? I have a lovely hi-res screen. Instead I have to look at a crappy image of the PowerPoint causes people to make terrible, terrible design choices. It Another effect of PowerPoint is that people present by talking about their slides, and not talking about their topic. It makes them awkward and stilted, and seems to actively work against clarity. PowerPoint slides seem to be some weird “font of truth” in some organisations — they act as if it can’t be true unless it’s in a slide deck. Baffling.There are some circumstances when a spreadsheet application is a good thing. If you want to explore some data, it can be a reasonable place to start. However, if you find yourself running a business process through Excel, step away from the computer and call in an airstrike.The use of Excel in business processes results in jerry-built (Americanese: jury-rigged) solutions that are eggshell fragile, undocumented, not version-controlled and reliant on the continued presence of the person that built them. When that person leaves, you end up with Zombie information — it’s not dead, but it’s not living either.As for Word, it’s not the best solution for creating beautiful print documents, it’s not the best solution for collaboration, and it’s a bloated world of pain and hurt that will ruin your life once your document gets past 20 pages. Even the people who seem to like it Confusing navigation, yet another thing to charge, and no clear rationale for its existence. Next.Everyone tries one when they start designing, and they almost never work. Inefficient use of space, upside down text, awkward transitions. The one exception is on certain tablet-based drawing tool menus where they can work well.Another offender in the unnecessary hiding of content category. It has been Another “Oooo aren’t I clever” UX travesty — this one relies on doing something different to regular scrolling when the user tries to navigate up and down a page. Sometimes, very rarely, they can be effective — for example this Let’s look an offender. This Social is hurting the internet’s soul. That is just the kind of thing that I could tweet and get loads of RTs and feel all warm and fuzzy. We have already mentioned that comments are terrible — they are a classic de-individuation paradigm. You have no relation to the individuals you’re communicating with, and there seem to be no consequences for your actions. So everything is Twitter seems to have become an inadvertent manifestation of the Google Plus, if not dead, is certainly Those social sharing buttons? I think what we are seeing here is the emergence of the true design challenges of social media — challenges that so far no-one seems to have solved. These challenges are relevance and context. None of the social media giants have got close to nailing these. And without them, social is dead.Hardly any end user customises software when the option is there. Often its existence is a result of timidity or laziness of the design team in establishing prioritised user needs during the design process. In other words, it’s a cop-out.Drag and drop is inaccessible as it requires a relatively high degree of dexterity. It’s also quite a fussy interaction — either you have affordances that indicate draggable items (which is messy), or the user has to guess. For example, up until recently I had no idea that “chips” in Google’s material design were Even worse than PowerPoint itself is applications that export slides, or slide-sized images. It’s like giving arsonists free kerosene.The’ve been around for 24 years. They look like they are saying something, but all the say is “Oh look how complicated this is”. The fancy spring metaphors are not an adequate replacement for insight.These are the modern equivalent of what Horrible cognitive burdens, the source of massive password-related anxiety. They work against each other with each one having different arbitrary rules concerning the types of characters that the user must use. People are given poor advice about what constitutes a “High security” interventions that require multiple factor authentication, physical devices or other measures often have the perverse effect of rendering systems even more vulnerable. Quite often this is because the requirements are so onerous that users have to write down their passwords and log in instructions.No-one likes forms. They feel like a hangover from the age of bureaucracy, it’s very rare that you fill an item out that you haven’t filled out somewhere before. Features like Chrome’s autofill are going some way to dull the pain of these forms, but we’re nowhere near where we need to be on this.Stock photos that look like stock photos are terrible. They normally add absolutely nothing to a site or an app, and they are beginning to look a bit untrustworthy. Want to sell a crappy quack weight loss scheme? You’ll be wanting some stock photos of people skipping through meadows. Want to get people to sign up to a service that exists only to steal people’s data? You’ll need some stock photography to stop looking sinister. Stock photography is an anti-pattern, and you should avoid it like the plague.There we have it, the pebble {code} 2015 UX List. By the way, we’re hiring at the moment. If you’re in or around London and an amazing designer or UXer, Creative Director at pebble {code} in Vauxhall, London. Design, Ergonomics, Product Development, UX, Research, Neuropsychology and Data Visualisation.

I bet you would have seen something like the statements below, each, at least a few hundred times in the last year.As a designer aspiring to carve my own niche in business software design, for the last 3 years, I have come across this below phrase thousands of times, exactly or some variant of it.Prior to my product design phase of my professional career, one of my key exposures was being an operations designer/ analyst, which involved Job Design, an area of system engineering that defines a role and describes it in detail, viz., title, description, roles and responsibilities, educational qualification, skills and qualities needed etc., and how to manage the same.So, after gaining enough understanding about how the professional field of design functions, I couldn’t help being surprised by how this phrase So, in order to give a brief taste of how, for the lack of a professionally harsher word, ‘inefficient’, the phrase Well, as the hashtag #uiux and #uiux design are quite popular, you can still continue to use them on Instagram and Twitter!Hmmm. I cannot make this any simpler. Good luck!Y(UX) — The job is of the person who leads the value generation process by both understanding holistic view and also possessing enough knowledge about the various stages of the process itself. Sometimes the person in Y job, would have once been in the X job, or occasionally, perform the duties of X also.X (UI) — The job is of the person who is in the last phase of the value generation process, whose outputs are the ones directly experienced by end-user of the process.Product Designer with background in Industrial Engineering. Currently serves as Senior UX Designer at an ad-tech firm in India.

Для создания по-настоящему качественных продуктов необходимо понимать нужды пользователей и их поведение.В нашем сегодняшнем материале — подборка из 7 интересных, но не особенно известных в Рунете инструментов, которые помогут владельцам бизнеса, решивших прийти в онлайн, разобраться в желаниях своих потенциальных клиентов.Notism — это платформа для совместной работы над визуальными материалами и видео, которая отлично подойдет компаниям из креативных отраслей (дизайн, реклама, медиа, архитектура, развлечения и т.п.). С помощью этого инструмента можно превращать статические экраны в интерактивные прототипы веб- и мобильных проектов, а также проводить юзабилити тестирования без необходимости написания и строчки кода.Этот набор UX-инструментов позволяет проводить удаленные пользовательские тестирования — например, сортировку карточек или отслеживание распределения кликов по странице. Кроме того пакет включает еще и набор инструментов для повышения конверсии и еще один для сбора обратной связи от пользователей в режиме реального времени. При покупке подписки можно пользоваться всеми тремя пакетами.Простое в использовании средство для работы над элементами дизайна. С его помощью можно организовать командную работу над любой графикой (и упростить добавление пометок к ним) — мокапами сайтов, интерфейсами приложений, логотипа и т.д. Таким образом, благодаря Firefly члены команды могут обсуждать разные варианты дизайна и тут же предлагать новые решения тех или иных задач.Сервис HotJar помогает компаниям понять, как посетители в действительности пользуются сайтом. Он включает различные инструменты для аналитики и повышения конверсии, например тепловые карты, модуль записи действий пользователей, анализ воронки и веб-форм, есть также отдельные модули для проведения опросов — доступ к каждому из этих элементов осуществляется из единого интерфейса, что очень удобно.С помощью Proto.io можно быстро создавать прототипы мобильных приложений, которые очень похожи на конечный продукт — это полезно для сбора обратной связи от пользователей, обсуждения идей внутри команды и проведения демонстраций проекта, например, перед инвесторами. Таким образом бизнес может добиваться своих целей без дополнительных затрат на разработку.Отличный способ протестировать что угодно от мокапов интерфейса до текста на страницах сайта или внешнего вида иконок. За 15 минут Pickfu проведет опрос среди 50 пользователей, которые расскажут, какой из представленных вариантов бизнес-решений им нравится больше и почему. Такой быстрый качественный и количественный анализ помогает при работе над проектом методом итераций.Простая в использовании платформа для аналитики и создания тепловых карт, которая пригодится разработчикам, маркетологам и UX-специалистам в их работе по улучшению продукта и достижению лучших показателей конверсии и увеличении продаж. В Ptengine используются технологии аналитики кликтов, скролла, учета распределения внимания пользователей. Сервис собирает и анализируюет данные для десктопов, смартфонов и планшетов, что позволяет компаниям получать доступ к разной информации из одной точки.Технология, по которой работает проект Decibel Insight, запатентована и помогает компаниям разных размеров выжимать больше из своих сайтов. С помощью этого инструмента можно проводить тестирования для определения того, какой контент работает лучше, в каком месте на странице его нужно разместить, чтобы получить наибольшую отдачу, что больше всего нравится топовым клиентам. Проводить оптимизацию интерфейсов можно не только на десктопе, но и на мобильных платформах.Конечно, мы перечислили далеко не все существующие инструменты для развития бизнеса (например, использование Аналитика — сложный и длительный процесс, но с его помощью можно действительно вывести проект на новый уровень.Журналист, маркетолог, сооснователь студии RockinRobinCashmyvisit — лучшая технология для интернет-маркетинга.

Whilst not an exhaustive list - instead this article aims to match the most common The nosiest person you will ever meet. Determined problem solver and UX Researcher from Dublin, Ireland.

Reality: the North Star is not the brightest star in the galaxy, but it has been used for navigation throughout history because of its “fixed” location in the sky. In the context of the digital age, a team identifies that fixed point as the goal of their game plan and then sets course for it. This traditional business-strategy approach can work to galvanize a team in a large slow-moving enterprise. But what if your solution is an innovative digital product about to be launched in a fast-moving consumer market full of uncertainties? This requires an agile process — one that is variable and iterative with continuous feedback loops at several points along the way.You don’t want a North Star to guide your UX strategy; instead, you want a goal or point toward which to steer every time you pivot.Reality: I guess the opposite of this would be, what, doing nonstrategic UX design? UX design and UX strategy are two different things. When you are doing design, you are creating something. When you are doing strategy, you are coming up with a game plan before creating something. One way to explain it is to just substitute the word “product” for “user experience.” A product strategist thinks about all the possibilities for the product and defines it after researching the potential customers and existing competitors. She thinks about how much the product will cost to make and be priced to sell at, and how it will be distributed to different customer segments. In contrast, a product designer actually fabricates the thing. They are two separate disciplines.Too often, I have seen UX designers work on products without being informed of the overall business strategy. They are blind beyond what they’ve received in the business requirements document. This disconnect is why the Lean UX movement is so popular; it advocates that UX designers take on a bigger leadership role (“getting a seat at the strategy table”) by becoming the glue that holds cross-functional teams together.Reality: Misinterpretation 2 points out the similarities between a product strategist and UX strategist. However, that doesn’t mean that you can easily substitute one for the other (even if my parents think my little brother [a product director/manager type] and I do the same thing for a living). The people who design the real-world shopping experience of a brick-and-mortar Target as well as the products in that store are thinking about a very different set of issues than the people designing Target.com.But UX strategy goes beyond just one digital product or online experience.It spans dozens of different digital products, services, and platforms; it interconnects all members of a digital interface family.Here are just a few examples to consider:The UX strategy makes a case for all touch points and weaves them into a seamless ecosystem between buyer and seller through the UX design. It accounts for the user’s entire journey down the funnel.(For more on this, see Chapter 9 in the book Reality: brand strategy is how, what, where, when, and to whom you plan on communicating and delivering your brand messages through your distribution channels. Aspects of brand strategy can help define aspects of your product’s UX design, and vice versa. But it’s easy to confuse these branding efforts and goals with a UX strategy. A poor UX can actually decrease the “brand value” of a product, but not so much the other way around. Even the brandiest of brands can’t overcome the poor UX of a product.In their book Another important thing to remember is that a solid UX design no longer differentiates brands. For companies such as Google, users assume the UX will be good. Google doesn’t have to announce it anymore, and when it’s bad, it’s all the more jarring. That’s why a UX strategy becomes even more potent. As the company grows and expands its digital properties, you need to constantly pivot and shift your game plan, baking your strategy into all online services effectively, reliably, and without friction. — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —Like this shit? It’s straight out of my new Me = UX strategist, lean startup freak, mom, professor, experimental music lover, ballerina, lefty w/green thumb

Como o próprio nome já diz, UX é a experiência do Com certeza, muitos de vocês já passaram por esse momento: você passa dias trabalhando em um protótipo que você achou incrível, mas na hora de colocar tudo aquilo à prova com os usuários você descobre que nada faz sentido.É claro que nem sempre é fácil deixar o gosto pessoal de lado durante o processo, muitos Por mais incríveis que sejam os processos de O “cinto de utilidades” de UX é enorme. Algumas ferramentas são mais focadas para o planejamento, outras mais voltadas à Você está indo bem, já definiu como vai ser o processo e quais ferramentas utilizar, é aí que aparece o fantasma dos entregáveis. Jornadas de usuário, Como UX designer você sabe que precisa registrar o processo de modo que os desenvolvedores possam entender o que deve ser feito para que tudo o que foi pensado se torne uma realidade. Mas, é importante que essa documentação não se torne um fator de impedimento do processo. É preciso encontrar o nível ideal, somente o necessário para dar apoio ao desenvolvimento e à criação, não reescrever O Senhor dos Anéis.Mas como descobrir esse nível ideal? Converse com quem receberá esses entregáveis para entender suas necessidades e expectativas. Tente garantir que não haja trabalho desnecessário nem que falte alguma coisa.Alguém aí nunca ouviu do cliente o famoso “não dá pra aumentar um pouquinho o logo”? Todos nós sabemos como as vezes é difícil ter o cliente interferindo durante o processo de Se o cliente participa do processo de Ainda sobre o cliente, outro desafio para muitos dos Como UX designer lembre-se de que você está tentando obter Geralmente o protótipo é uma das últimas etapas de um processo de UX, o que significa que o Como dissemos, ninguém é infalível. Muitos desses erros são cometidos pura e simplesmente por “inércia”, por falta de prática e de experiência. Aqui na Taqtile nós sempre fazemos uma retrospectiva ao final de cada projeto, repassando os pontos positivos e negativos que tiveram maior impacto no resultado final. Com isso, planejamos os projetos seguintes já pensando em como solucionar os pontos negativos e sabendo o que de positivo podemos aproveitar do projeto anterior. Outra dica, essa mais simples, é manter sempre à vista alguns Sintam-se à vontade para compartilhar suas ideias, nos dizer quais foram as situações parecidas pelas quais vocês já passaram e quais são as suas dicas! Obrigado pela leitura!Nós somos a Taqtile Taqtile

Every time I publish a blog in Medium, I feel: curious, excited, and reluctant. Curious: because I feel Medium is trying its best to avoid imitating other bloggers, they want to be creative and unique, and I love it. Excited: because designers at Medium could create simple and aesthetic design where user can enjoy reading or blogging. Reluctant: because I always feel reluctant on how my blog will look on Medium’s homepage? Why the images on the header looks weird when are posted at Medium’s homepage? Why Medium is limiting its users by recommeding to using a rectangular image at least 1000 px wide? In this blog, I will present my user experience and suggest solution that I hope Medium can use.The user’s mind process the pure settings by choosing the right image on their blog! Why Medium would adjust that? The user uses their emotions in their blog and their emotions guide the user to what they want to say and display to the audience. Users talk to themselves while writing a blog, they mostly would say: “oh, I have an image!” We all go through these emotions. Images speak louder than blogs.I took a screenshot by blogger George Lange! Looking at the image he posted on his blog it is obvious that this was not what he wanted to tell us (fig. a.) How did Lange feel after putting efforts on writing his blog? For me as a user I can not understand the message from this image: what the forehead has to do with the title? In fact it destruct my eyes, my emotions, my feelings, and made me reluctant to check his blog. I have same problem! In fact many Medium users have the same issue as well. Look at (fig. b.) to the actual image that Lange posted, it is an aesthetic photograph, it has feelings, it tells a story: a cute looking boy heading somewhere without his parents, the title says Medium destructed the message though their strategy is to increase the number of bloggers  become the best blog forum in the world. We cannot blame Lange, he did the right thing, Medium destructed his path. Lange came to Medium, and Medium wanted him to come. Most likely, user Lange is not satisfied with the whole performance. Well, it is not only Lange! Many users at Medium are facing the same issue.On (fig. c,) the actual image by user Rebecca Martin is on the bottom, the image tells a story: students studying the human brain, holding the brain, interacting with the brain. While on Medium’s homepage, I got destructed, was the message about Snoopy on the student’s t-shirt? If yes, what was it to do with the title? The original image provide a central concentration on the brain, Medium moved the central concentration toward Snoopy! How many bloggers lose readers this way?I observed the wireframe through multiple posts at Medium’s homepage (fig. f.) The designers at Medium have built seven concrete elements for each post: author  date, likes, image, title, introduction, continue, and reading time  bookmark (fig f.)I separated the seven elements and looked back into empty canvas. Then I studied the user’s perception on the images they post. I figured out the concentration of the user is at the center of the image. The concentration becomes less busy on the right and left edges of the image. (fig. g)I spent the weekend thinking about solution! Even Steve Jobs crossed my dream but he did not dare to give me solution! I could understand the user experience on observing an image but finding a solution was almost a perpetual challenge! I continued sketching different concepts. Nothing. I was looking through the window and saw our neighbor Yeji reading the SF Chronical while sitting on the bench! I took the camera to snap photo of Yeji while reading the newspaper (fig. h)I noticed the front page of the newspaper is like the homepage of Medium. The homepage of the SF Chronicle shares similar values that Medium has: title, author, date, image, introduction, and if you like the subject you follow the page number or in case of Medium you click on the continue button.From (fig. i) I began to visualize some ideas! Watching Yeji reading the SF Chronicle made a big difference! Although, another challenge I crossed by: users at Medium post different size of images. Landscape or portrait or none. After thorough sketches, I started to finalize some ideas that would work for all users together. If the image is landscape size the introduction goes under it. If it is portrait size the introduction goes to its right. If no image posted the introduction goes under the title. This way, all users will share similar experience and won’t lose their original expectation. Check (fig. j) I designed a proposal on how would Medium’s homepage look like:It would be great to hear from users and Medium staff about this concept (fig. j) If there is something I misunderstood, please let me know.Regards — WozAbstract Painter  Design Thinker | 

Detta är sammanfattning av undersökningen Det jag slås av är ett otroligt engagemang som dessa personer har. Alla är riktiga hjältar som verkligen försöker skapa nytta och en bättre värld. UX området är verkligen något speciellt och jag känner mig stolt över att arbeta med andra i detta skrå. Så till själva underökningen.Först några demografiska delar för att du ska få en bättre bild av vilka som har svarat på undersökningen.Vad är det som en UX’are älskar? Skapa en bättre värld, träffa människor, förstå, lösa problem, söka efter behov. Alltid förbättra. Nedan är en textanalys av vad alla svarade, sedan några citat av vad som skrevs.Hatar är ett starkt ord, men jag uppfattar som många kämpar med ungefär samma sak, förståelse, respekt, ofta behöva förklara och övertyga. Det blir bättre och bättre med tiden men vi UX’are får fortsätta att vara tålmodiga och starka.Men vad är det som gör en bra UX’are då? Vilka Fantastiskt att 53% träffar sin användare någon gång i månaden eller oftare. Arbetar man med User Experience måste man träffa sina användare, punkt. Och för er som inte göra, använd denna undersökning för att visa på hur andra företag gör.Extra roligt att se att Jeffs och JoshsSå vart går UX’aren och hänger på konferens? Det känns riktigt roligt att se att Martins och Maryams UX Open är så populär. Sedan är ju FBTB en självklar UX konferens med internationella vibbar, otroligt bra jobbat av Inuse. Känns skönt att även internationella konferenser som Lean UX och Adaptive Paths finns representerade. Saknar dock min en av mina favoriter, UXLX i Lissabon.Intressanta siffror, UX mognadstrappan är nästa helt upp-och-ner jämfört med Det känns skönt att veta att nästa 70% av de som svarade känner att de har ett stort ägarskap i UX frågorna. Men visst kan det bli bättre?Ger dagens utbildningar hjälp i det dagliga arbetet? 6,4 av 10 kanske är ett ok betyg men borde inte detta vara bättre?24% av alla som svarade söker aktivt efter ett nytt arbete……och de flesta verkar prata med kollegor och före detta kollegor, intressant att nätverket LinkedIn kommer på så hög plats. Tråkigt att se att Arbetsförmedlingen inte är där man hittar jobb. Under Otroligt att se att det skiljer nästa 3.000 kr mellan kvinnor och män i Sverige 2015. Här får vi nog alla kämpa, förhoppningsvis kan denna undersökningen hjälpa till att förbättra framöver.Så här ser medellönen ut för UX’are i Sverige 2015. 21+års erfarenhet hade bara 2 svar så ta siffrorna med lite salt. Resten av resultaten hade mellan 6 och 30 svar så där är det en bättre relevans. Stämmer detta överens med din bild?Själv blev jag lite förvånad att lönen på byråer var lägst per typ. Kan kanske ha att göra att de som svarade hade lägre erfarenhet än de som svarade i de andra grupperna. Att jobba som egen verkar dock vara mest lönsamt.Jag grupperade lönerna utifrån vilken titel personerna hade. De som jobbade som typ interaktionsdesigner  UX designer blev en grupp. De som hade mer av en strategisk roll typ UX lead  UX strateg blev en grupp. De som hade någon typ av chefsroll, manager blev en grupp. Övrigt var de som jobbade som AD, testare, scrum-master eller coach.Tjänar man mer om man har en längre utbildning?Så det var ett axplock av undersökningen, är det något du saknar, De frågor som jag ställde i år var följande, vilka frågor skulle du vilja se nästa år? Är det något du saknar eller tycker är orelevant?Director of User Experience at Handelsbanken // Mostly in English // 

By Victor S. YoccoAmbiguity can be a good thing. Let’s take common fairy tales for example. The protagonist often does something morally ambiguous, such as steal treasure from the rich for the cause of the poor, leaving those reading or listening to the story to question what they might do in a similar situation. Is the protagonist acting morally or not? Is stealing ever OK? Likewise, ambiguity in academic definitions allows for productive conversations about theory to unfold without ever coming to a proper resolution. Academics make careers off of trying to resolve ambiguity. However, most people want to quickly resolve ambiguity in everyday life, which can lead to heated argumentation among those with strong opinions and frustration for those observing and wanting resolution.Defining user experience (UX) is another example of ambiguity. The Nielsen Norman Group People have been asking just what the hell is UX since the beginning of time. It’s true — they have found these exact words carved into the blocks of Egyptian pyramids and Mayan temples.More recently, I have enjoyed reading the thoughts of some very talented and intelligent people in design, such as First, it might be helpful to explain what I mean by paradigm. In an effort to remain unapproachable, academics have tossed us another word that sounds more complex than necessary. Modern science credits Thomas Kuhn’s work as giving paradigm its current scientific meaning:Yeah.I like to think of paradigm as another way of saying “worldview.” Is that any more helpful than Kuhn’s definition? Probably not.Let me be more specific. As it relates to this post and your life as someone attempting to define UX or attempting to figure out if you can legally call yourself a UX-er, a paradigm is:UX is not a single position that excludes others, or specific to one field of practice; it is a worldview one holds. UX can and does include content strategists, designers, developers, engagement leads, researchers, project managers, and While I agree with Craig Tomlin’s The UX Paradigm includes:The UX paradigm asks the following questions:The UX paradigm includes the following critical roles:UX includes UI, UX includes design, UX includes a process, UX strives to understand behavior and psychology, UX focuses on the user. UX is not one of these things; rather, all of these things are needed for the UX paradigm to exist.I would say if one piece is missing, you are not operating under the UX paradigm. You are not UX. In the same vein, you don’t go from not doing UX to doing UX overnight, just by thinking about it. You won’t get a job “doing UX.” There is no such thing.Now try living the rest of your life with that knowledge. By definition, paradigms are flawed in that they are informed by our current best (and fallible) human knowledge of the world and its occurrences. As we evolve in our knowledge, so must our paradigm. In other words, we function under an accepted paradigm until it becomes obvious our views cannot account for the reality of a situation. We must then evolve or shift our paradigm. This does not happen frequently, in individuals or in fields of work and study. Paradigm shifts involve growing pains, shedding past beliefs, and An example of a paradigm shift would be the transition most of us had from being children that were cared for by someone else, to being fully responsible for our own care and maintenance. Things like bills, jobs, healthcare, and shopping for groceries became a part of our lives whether we liked it or not. A permanent shift in our worldview occurred.We have seen design paradigms shift from focusing on simple data entry (dos-type interfaces), to providing users as much information as possible in the form of link farms and word walls, to the current focus on displaying appropriate information based on the role of the user and the type of device they are using. Design paradigms tend to shift in response to growth in technology and changes in social norms.I think UX is larger than a single design paradigm (e.g. responsive design), it is what you design, why you design, and how you design. The UX paradigm encompasses our view of reality, and is a shift from one that failed to put the user first — the creator knows best paradigm. But is the current UX paradigm the ultimate and fully evolved version? History would suggest not; not if we are still growing as practitioners or as a society.I have presented my thoughts on how we should define UX. I do think that UX is a commitment and that you cannot simply say you “do UX.” There has to be something concrete backing up those words. However, UX doesn’t benefit from excluding others. Our colleagues don’t benefit from being told they are or are not in UX; particularly if they are functioning within the paradigm. I believe we all benefit from thinking of UX as a paradigm, a worldview, that has many components. Defining the UX paradigm is critical so that we can focus our efforts on creating good experiences, sharing knowledge, and understanding where the knowledge we have created is applicable. Eventually, we will outgrow UX as well.My goal is to continue a conversation around what is UX. I think UX will remain a sufficiently ambiguous term into the near future. I have read enough to know that many people will disagree with my view. I’d like to hear your thoughts on my argument.Researcher and Strategist at Intuitive Company, a Philadelphia based design and development firm. Author of Design for the Mind a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

These principles describe Agile practices typically have the development team interact with a single “product owner”. This person is designated to decide what gets built, how it behaves, and whether it has been delivered to specification. Essentially, the Product Owner represents the rest of the world so that the developers can focus on building software.Developers are given permission (if they choose) to act as order-takers, absolved of responsibility (and accountability) for understanding why the thing is being built, and what the product is setting out to do.In order to create products that customers and users love, the “owner” role must include three distinct responsibilities, divided across a balanced team of owners — each as important as the other.Teams that share accountability for product ownership tend to invent better solutions and achieve traction faster with less internal friction.Built Wi-Fi networks in Africa, lobbied governments on spectrum reform, connected the Dalai Lama to Desmond Tutu. Works 

Outro dia durante um almoço com amigos pirei quando fiquei sabendo de um aplicativo que informa condições de ondas com um branding e UX animal desenvolvido por surfistas e designers chamado Na palavras dos próprios caras: “Como seria um forecast de surf se visto através dos olhos dos surfistas? Uma previsão de surf com mais design e menos números. Afinal de contas, nós estamos indo para a praia, não para o escritório.”Mesmo não sendo surfista não tem como não ficar amarradão neste app. Ele é intuitivo, simples, fácil de usar, divertido e fala a língua da galera do surfe de uma maneira objetiva e direta, sem enrolação e com os dados que realmente importam.Fica a dica de mais uma descoberta que pode servir de inspiração para sua idéia de App.Para baixar o app na Appstore: Para baixar o app no Google Play: Para ver o site dos caras: Vivendo, descobrindo, aprendendo

During the last couple of years the market has opened up and shown us new developments that revolutionized industries, brands and people, namely the high level of technology that appears day-by-day, non-stop.With this transformation we started listening and caring about So, Of course UX is mainly a focus on digital industry, but it’s not just a simple website. Many factors can influence a person’s experience, for example the images that we use and the emotions of it, content, colour, structure, functions, which combined can tell the right message in the right moment. Nowadays, UX professionals need to understand who their customers are, their behaviours, when and in what circumstances they get involved with a brand or product, and of course, where: if it is in physical presence, if they use a desktop in their comfortable home or if it is in movement outside with mobile devices. This is extremely important since people are in constant movement and it is crucial to understand how it affects and how can impact their state of mind, their emotions, feelings, mood and body.So it’s more than designing a good experience to users, the crucial part is building a powerful experience to people, driving the right message at the right moment, contributing with relevance across their experience independently of the product or the brand.Art Director at J. Walter Thompson Lisbon | Portugala collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

An IntroductionI get asked a lot about getting into user experience (UX). It’s been a really rad career for me, so I understand why it garners a lot of interest. Let’s look at the facts:But how do you break in? Truth: it’s not easy. That said, the demand for skilled UXers in the Twin Cities is ridiculously high. Ten years ago, UX was still a somewhat niche field, especially in smaller markets like Minneapolis. Now, companies large and small know that an effective UX team is essential to business success.Because I’m frequently asked about getting into UX, I’ve come up with some pretty solid advice that I give over and over. For the rest of this week, I’m going to share one post each day with my advice for getting into the field. Stay tuned!Twin Cities native. UX Engineer 

I prefer notebooks rather than sheet of paper. Faster to retrieve ideas.I use 2 sizes: one for smartphone, one for general ideas.With 5 pens:Because I always need my pens with the notebook, I use velcros to stick them together.Thanks.. What’s your job? Well, I’m saving Planet Earth from Bad Design. Funder 

I am going to use a simple analogy to explain this.It can taste good or bad, spicy or sweet.Our taste keeps changing, the today’s good might be tomorrow’s normal. Each of us prefers different tastes and flavours towards various kind of food.There is no such thing as the perfect taste.And, there is no such thing as the perfect user experience.The goal of cooking is to solve one’s hunger or craving. Hunger is a need, craving is a want. So, the food must be edible, tasty or not is optional.The goal of designing is to solve one’s problem and provide a journey with good experience while using the solution. So, the problem must be solved, good experience is optional.One can cook tasty food with just ingredients from the nearby grocery store. The key is the skills and techniques.One can design a journey with good user experience with just little graphic design knowledge. The key is the thinking and understanding behind the journey.One can make his/her dishes look extremely beautiful and colourful, yet it might lack of seasoning and taste bad.One can come out with the pretty user interface, yet it doesn’t achieve any goal the solution is intended to or it adds extra steps to achieve one goal.Food that is tasty but unhealthy will not be consumed daily. No one wants to eat McDonald everyday even it tastes really good once in a long time.However, Subway proves it different that fast food can be made the tasty way with “healthier” and “fresher” ingredients.The journey that provides good experience and valuable insights will make us want to come back for the second and third time.If it just comes with pretty interface that doesn’t provide any value to the users, it is just eye candy. Users might never come back again.Make it fulfil. Make it tasty. Make it beautiful.Make it work. Make it fast. Make it beautiful.In reply to my friend’s post — “Yes, anyone can. Good UX doesn’t cost money, nor long hours, it takes heart and brain.There is always a cheaper way to design it, if one spends enough time to find that way, he could have make it.Just like UX  UI Designer @ yugenele.com | Coffee  Tea Lover

With the new UX for Medium, I guess we should expect a new mobile client soon, right? One where we can create posts?managing director, workfutures.io, and editor-in-chief, Work Futures

I recently downloaded the Google Inbox app because Apple’s native email app feels like a relic compared to the newer email apps. Inbox looked sleek, is gesture friendly and had good reviews on the App store. Lastly, it is from Google, so what could go wrong. However, there is an unpleasant twist to this story!This post highlights two glaring UX issues that Google needs to address because it simply doesn’t work.Let’s start with the email bundling feature which on surface seems like a great idea. Bundling groups similar emails together, which makes scrolling easier and the user gets a larger snapshot of unread emails. However, it comes with a pitfall and I learnt that the hard way.I don’t trust online providers with keeping my financial data safe, so I created a checking account exclusively for online payments and with an account balance of no more than $200. So if any of the merchants get compromised, I don’t lose my shirt. In addition, I have notifications setup in the event of my account balance falling below $100. Upon notification, I simply replenish the account back to $200 balance.On a beautiful Sunday when I was at a beer garden I received a text message from a merchant stating that my payment was declined. After the issue was resolved and my reputation was tarnished, I wondered about the email warning me about the low account balance.It turns out the email was bundled (buried in this case) with other finance related emails. The bundle A quick visual survey of the summarized bundle gave me the impression that there was nothing important to pay attention to. A simple inbox interface that was meant to improve my email experience actually cost me my reputation.I reviewed my Inbox to see if there are any other forms of mis-categorized bundles and I found a few that made absolutely no sense. For example, my weekly HTML newsletters were bundled with online forum emails. Although bundling can be disabled, it comes as a default option at the time of onboarding and most users accept the default.I am not blaming the bank incident on Inbox but I’m pointing out that bundling fails to understand that even if certain emails belong to the same category, the importance or priority of each email may be different.Without bundling, I am forced to go through each email and take appropriate action.I enjoy reading newsletters during my commute. I tend to load the articles beforehand in the Safari browser (as new tabs) so I could read them even if my connection is lost during the commute. But all that changed with Inbox.When I click on a link, Inbox opens up the article in a Chrome browser and provides an option to go back to Inbox (replacing the usual browser back button). Seems like a useful and innocuous looking feature. Wrong!Instead of creating a new tab/window for every new link, Inbox re-opens the link in Chrome over the previous page, without an option to go back to the previous page (see below). Even worse, clicking on the “back to Inbox” button simply closes the tab.Re-opening Chrome takes you to the default home page. I have to manually open up the history via burger icon to retrieve the visited pages.Inbox assumed that I would always finish reading an article before clicking on another link, which in my opinion is presumptuous.It’s frustrating to see new features break the flow of work or in some cases making decisions without considering different use cases. UX should be effective (getting a task done) and efficient (in shortest time possible) and a few features in Inbox fail to deliver that.On the bright side, I absolutely love the pinning of emails and turning emails into a task on the calendar. Google Inbox changed the way I manage my Inbox. Kudos for that!supports =

So, Jayz announced that he is the new owner of Tidal and now the music industry will be saved. Good. I’m not sure the music industry needed saving, however, I’m sure glad there’s now overwhelming publicity for the only available streaming service that supports lossless audio.Yes, I’m one of those guys, I Right now, Tidal has a momentum, but will that be enough to shake off all the User Experience issues it currently has? If not, Tidal might become another company that wants to solve something big, and do that loudly, while fails to cater to the most basic requirement of any modern service: effortless usability.After I had started to write this post, I realized that in the last 5-or-so days Tidal has already fixed a few annoyances. For starters, you can now change your password in the settings menu, whereas last time a checked it about a week ago, it was only possible if you were logged out and pretended to have forgotten it.But that’s not the only change they made that surprised me when collecting exhibits of bad UX. I wanted to mention how terrible their desktop Mac application is, which it is, or at least was, since now the desktop application download option vanished from their web page completely.I installed it earlier, and it’s still functional, and frankly, very much needed, since lossless playback with the web player only works if you use Google Chrome.It seems that the Mac application is deprecated, so let’s not talk about it in extent, just have a look at the ‘unsaved state’ appearance of the red traffic light, and realize how little sense it makes in the case of an online music streaming destkop app. Infinitely little.Usually, it is pretty straight-forward to handle user logins in a web application. Unfortunately, Tidal is very confusing even in this matter.I’ve been using Tidal everyday for the past 2 weeks, yet, whenever I open a new Chrome window and load tidal.com, I am encouraged to login once again. Fine, let’s do it. So I click the login button and I am presented with three options, Twitter, Facebook and conventional e-mail + password login. If I hit the cyan-colored First of all, signing up for a service is not the same thing as trying it The sickest thing is that Tidal already knew who I was, and in fact, I was already logged in. Had I clicked the Menu button, and then selected the Web player option (burried Finally, it is only a minor annoyance that when I do log in, unaware of the fact that I was already signed in, I am, before all else, presented with the page that I want to see as rarely as possible: Subscription  Payment. Hopefully, now I can find my way to the web player after all, which is as of now, English-American major @ ELTE Love podcasts  electro parties Interested in video game  usability designa collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

Here at ContaAzul we are always working to improve our processes. We have in mind that our design process works right here and right now but tomorrow it may not work so well, and we are always opened to embrace any changes that may be necessary. And that includes finding new ways of working together.We’ve adopted several ways of coworking. Design critiques, weekly design talks and progress follow-ups are among our practices. This suits us very well, since we work in a Design Guild (You can learn more about that in That’s what motivated our product manager to schedule a UX Task Force. We’ve put four UX designers, two accountants, one administrative person and a product manager in a room located outside our company to think freely. One week earlier we had discussed the situation to find what was the main problem in our product, what could be the possible causes and consequences of it and how it was affecting our results.During this week-long spam, our product manager had analyzed and quantified with concrete metrics all these possible causes and consequences and brought us some light.We’ve started our day-long exercise with a in-depth presentation concerning all the data our P.M. retrieved from his analysis. We were encouraged to take notes of every idea would come to mind, being it the most obvious or the most nonsense. Every new data he would present, people would write one or two post-its with questions, solution ideas or problems that would sprout out of the main problems. This was really interesting because we could see a lot of common considerations among the team, but also unique points of view (and I can say part of that was possible because we had people from several areas with us).We then Discussed the ideas presented, grouping together the similar ones and evolving them into concepts to work with. We took sometime to listen to the different opinions and it was really important, and I say REALLY important to do it.Next step was an exercise of every skill we could use. We divided into three groups, each with at least one accountant or administrative staff person, with the objective of developing ways to solve our problem based on the concepts we found earlier. Redesign of screens, repositioning features, changing the structure of one or two features, and so on. What we found in the end was amazing.We had three solutions from the three different groups, and even though the groups didnt talk to each other during this process, the solutions were able to complete each other in a very promissing way.We now have a lot of metrics to go after, a lot of validation and tests to make, but we found something precious.My conclusion was very satisfying after the day was done: We found out value in working with people outside the design area, and we found out that we didnt need to creat a new super-feature to solve everything out. No, we just needed some knowledge from the right people to open our eyes so we could see how to make everything better.ContaAzul design guild

According to Inspired by Peter Smart who took on the challenge of I am a The rules of my challenge were simple.With my new challege, I wondered, could I do this, could I find a problem every day and try and solve it? When you start, you never know where you will end.My journey started on April 26, 2015 and went through to May 10, 2015. Here is the list of my problems and my design ideas.Problem: Finding a central place and time for friends to meet.Situation: I was on the phone with my friend in Baltimore and we were talking about meeting up sometime soon. I live in NY and thought to myself, is there was a way for us to meet when we are both free and in a location central to us?Design solution: Center points App-this mobile app would sync calendar location with your friends and family to find a central location and dates when all parties are available. The app would provide recommendations based on the most popular areas to visit.Problem: Business card overload.Situation: I attended NY Tech day, the worlds largest start up tech event with over 400 vendors. I received lots of business cards for various reasons; cool product, business opportunities and some people I just took their card because they offered it. I ended up throwing a lot of the cards in my bag and mixed up the cards of people I wanted to connect with, with those whom I had interest in their product/service.Design solution: A folder with 5 pockets; 1 to connect; 1 to collaborate; 1 for those little cards; 1 for impartial; and 1 for Fascinated. This would allow people to put the business cards in a compartment and not get lost or mixed up with other cards.Problem: Lots of Resources for UX Design, no central place to find what you need.Situation: As I looked for various UX resources, I found myself going to multiple websites to find what I was looking for. I also got a lot of advice from friends, colleagues and former instructors.Design Solution: A web application which will show various resources specific to UX and its various part such as Research, Interactive Design, etc.Problem: Planning a memorial service.Situation: A dear friend of mine passed away a few months ago and I was on the phone with the brother of my friend. He mentioned that the family was looking at a time to have the memorial service to gather all the loved ones of his sister but they weren’t sure of the venue, how to get the word out and when would be a good time. Having lost both of my parents before age 30, I know a little about planning a memorial service/funeral.Design Solution: A web application, which will answer common questions to help facilitate the process of planning a memorial service or funeral or other mournful events by providing the resources a person, would need to begin planning a service.Problem: Last Minute Interview.Situation: I found out last minute about an interview and had to prepare notes for the company and had to search more than the company site to find out the right info.Design Idea: A web application, which will answer the 10–15 most common facts about a company in an alphabetical list similar to a Gary’s Guide. It would be like combining best websites into one.Problem: Building a website from scratch.Situation: I was in the midst of learning how to build an HTML/CSS website from scratch and encountered issues and had to look at a lot of different sites to find the answers to the errors I faced. As a project manager, when a project is complete I often did a lessons learned; what we did right, what we did wrong, and what we could do better.Design Idea: Create a website of lessons learned for various topics not only related to web development to show people what others did right, did wrong and what they felt they could do better. In the end, taking the action of doing lessons learned is a good methodology and I will continue to practice. I felt the website is not the best design option and that there are existing sites like Problem: There is so much turmoil in the world, how can one person help communicate peace?Situation: A friend of mine was planning an event for World Peace Day and it triggered an idea to create a solution from an individual and community standpoint to bring some peace through the device we use the most our phones.Design Solution: ‘Peace Giver’ mobile application. This application would allow individuals to choose a super power by asking a few questions like what superpower would you bring to the world? Based on the selection of super power, the super power will be tied to a local charity where the user can donate time or money.Problem: The Political landscape and the lack of public awareness.Situation: Every Sunday morning I watch the political programs and it had me think about the fact that about only 50% of Americans know about politics.Design Idea: Make a Memory Matching game for Politics. Showing the branches of Government, Republicans, Democrats, and public landmarks.Problem: Working-out-No time to workoutSituation: I was on the subway and noticed a man standing in the doorway with those rubber bands you pull for resistance and he was really working out. It had me think about working out on the go.Design Idea: A phone app, which would show exercises, you can do on the subway or wherever you are without equipment.Problem: No breaks at HackathonsSituation: I was at the International NASA Space Apps Hackathon in NYC working with a team of people I had just met that day. After seven hours in a room together, researching and looking up data with no breaks, the five of us were going nowhere with our initial idea.I asked the team to go outside to get some fresh air and they reluctantly agreed. We went outside the Microsoft office on 41st and 8th (which is ironic if you know Midtown New York and the location of the Port Authority). We spent about 10 minutes outside and chitchat a little about the day. When we went back and sat down we all felt re-energized and we were able to come up with a solution for our problem.Design Idea: ‘Take a breather’ would be the name of section of best practices handbook for Hackathons. People work non-stops during Hackathons and sometimes get burnt out. My idea is to provide a recommended set of best practices for the teams and newbies to a Hackathon and include set times to ‘take a breather’ along with some guidelines about working in teams.Problem: Diversity in TechSituation: I had been reading a lot and seeing a lot on twitter about the diversity issues with women and minorities in tech. I wondered what was the solution for the and how can people get more involved?Design Idea: Create a web application, which will provide a platform for users to find resources for free courses, local community resources and online classes. The site would also support diversity efforts in technology through published research. I feel this is an import site to have to further incorporate more diversity in the workplace.Problem: Loss of motivationSituation: While working on a project with my friend, we were both feeling exhausted and we lacked motivation to continue forward.Design Idea: At first I thought there could be an app to show various levels of motivation based on a person’s current state. Then it hit me that no app was needed. The only thing we really needed to do at that time was to ask ourselves one question, ‘why’ we were working on this project in the first place and that is what got us back to work.Problem: Meeting people and first time introductionsSituation: At a meet up I found myself being asked, ‘What do you do?’ and I would answer the same thing every time I looked around the room and saw everyone asking the same questions and people giving their regular response.Design Idea: ‘Creative Introductions’ would be an app to supply people with different questions to ask other than, ‘What do you do?’ Instead of asking what do you do, you could as ‘What is your passion project?’ or other questions which address who a person is instead of what they do.Problem: RelaxingSituation: When you live to give things your all, as I often do, I’ve found that I was not able to put my all into getting relaxed after finishing work.For a few years now I have been going to a spiritual director who specializes in breath work and I’ve learned some breathing techniques that have helped. I thought it would be great to incorporate mindfulness, relaxation and breath work for my fellow Type A friends.Design Idea: create a community to support my efforts with relaxation by setting a weekly goal and communicating this with my other friends who are looking to do the same. Goals include daily relaxation and mindfulness exercises such as taking a walk and looking to the vastness of the sky.Problem: Mother’s DaySituation: Mother’s day is a day to celebrate our mothers or those who are like mothers or to celebrate us.My mother passed away several years ago and I thought about people who no longer have a mother to spend the day with and what can be done to celebrate the person who gave us life?Design Idea: I didn’t have to think long or hard on this idea. My idea is to do what gives you joy, because those who gave us life whether they are with us or not, want to see us happy and living a life we enjoy.After 15 days of documenting problems I see in the world and coming up with design ideas to help solve them, I know that no idea is to small to turn into reality and that my mom would be proud to know that I am living a life I enjoy and doing work that I love.User Experience Designer. People connector. Avid communicator. Passionate about accessibility, design and tech.

Inspired by This story does not focus on the person The first impression when you open Beme (assuming you did get an invite) is not a very good one. The interface seems cluttered and the design and font choices seem a bit odd. One may interpret this as “character” but i think it needs just a little bit more love for the details. I don’t focus too much on design in this post because a better version of the app is already announced but i tried to tweak it a little bit here and there.What’s even more striking than the design is that there is no onboarding process whatsoever. Especially when you are introducing new interaction patterns, like the “put your phone up to your chest to record”-thing, some kind of onboarding is a necessity. There are a bunch of other challenges and problems with Beme which I’ll try to adress in this post. In generel Casey and his team did a great job drafting the idea that he wanted to bring to life with this app. Now they should focus on making the experience flawless and easily understandable. So here comes my idea of a better user experience for the Beme app.Let’s start with a splashscreen, shall we?A splashscreen is not only a good way to introduce the brand once again, it could help to buy some time while loading the apps assets in the background. The current Beem app is lightning fast, so right now there is no need for one but perhaps in the future, when the app gets a bit more content that should be initially loaded, this could come in handy.When the app will be available for public the first step for the user would be claiming a username. I implemented this as the first step of the onboarding process.After successfully claiming his name the user gets a confirmation screen with two options. First option is to proceed to find some friends, second option would be to skip this part of the process. In this case I’ll skip the friends finding part and jump right to the next stepstone of the onboarding.Which also happens to be the last part of this short onboarding process. It’s more or less a kind of warning that introduces the new video recording concept of the app in form of a short text. Users who believe are savvy enough or already educated themselves about this new kind of interaction (f.e. in some of Caseys videos) can go straight ahead into the apps main view. Users who want to learn more would be redirected into some kind of tutorial (perhaps a video of casey using the app) after they pressed the “learn more” call to action.This is where the user starts his journey into Beme. The main list view or “Home” or whatever you may call it. It’s the list with all your friends and interesting people you can follow. In this example the user already added some of his friends. I really liked the idea of mixing in some random strangers so I sticked to it.This function you see here was very well implemented in the current app. If the user just taps a list item this message is displayed. The user is forced to hold down the list item he wants to watch. The user learns, on the go, that he has to press and hold the screen to watch a Beme.If he presses and holds the item it starts “loading”. In my design the little bump on the left (which also happens to look a lot like a part of the Beme logo) starts moving to the right indicating that something is happening.When a new reaction is available it’s indicated by a little number on the reaction tab in the lower right corner.When the user scrolls to the end of the list he is greeted with the possibility to add more friends to his list.When the user pushes the big green button on the bottom of the screen, this screen explains to him what to do. This seems to be a better place to implement this explanation than the onboarding process following the principle of “learn as you go”.In the current app the user can record a Beme straight from the main list view. I still would offer this functionality as it’s a really good shortcut for pro-users. But having a dedicated place in the app where users that are not as savvy can access this functionality, is a good thing in my opinion.The start of a recording is indicated by an audio signal. A visual confirmation is shown on screen simultaneously. I would recommend showing a countdown that indicates the time the user has already recorded. As the length of a Beme is limited to 4 seconds this would be a useful piece of information. It’s possible to just keep on filming after the 4 seconds have passed. This is also indicated by an audio signal.If the user cancels the recording by removing the smartphone from his chest (or other bodypart), it’s also indicated by an audio signal. Also this message would appear explaining to him why the recording was canceled.After successfully making a Beme the user is send back right to the main view where a loading bar is indicating that his Beme is currently uploading. After upload is complete a confirmation would be shown in the then full green loading bar.I left this function as it is in the current app. There is a white time indicator on the edge of the screen which is barely visible here, but I left this as it is as well.I would suggest placing the reaction thumbnail in the lower part of the screen. If it’s placed in the upper part it’s more likely to cover up faces in the footage.Right here we see the left handed version of this functionality. I would implement an option in the app settings to set this view for the left or right hand use.If the device is placed in the left hand, the thumb can easily be placed in the lower left corner freeing up space for the index finger of the right hand to tap the thumbnail and vice versa.To send a reaction the thumbnail needs to be tapped. As explained in the screen before (upper left corner).When a reaction was sent the screen flashes as a confirmation. I would also suggest to incorporate some kind of icon (f.e. a check that is bouncing and then fading out, some kind of animation like the hearts in Periscope) to give more noticeable feedback to the user that his reaction was sent.In the current app design the information of how many people spent time with the users Bemes, is shown in the main view. I would move this into the account settings as it’s not a crucial piece of information. I can imagine that it’s meant to be an emotional piece of info but i just ignored that fact for the sake of reducing clutter in the main view.I would split the settings view into different sections. This provides the freedom to add more options in the future.As shown before i would provide an option to switch into a left hand mode for the reactions while viewing a Beme.Beme is a cool new way to share personal life with friends and follow interesting people. The thoughts that went into cutting out the barrier between the user who records video and the things and people he records is a good start. The never before seen way of using the front sensor of a smartphone to trigger the camera is an USP worth talking about. But considering that this app needs to gain a huge amount of early adopters, their peers and multipliers fast, leads to the fact that some of the mentioned UX problems should be adressed in the near future.Please bear in mind that the examples I provided above are labeled “quick fixes”. It’s nothing more than that. Making any digital product the right way and come up with a top notch UX, serving the products purpose, needs time and a lot of thought.If it has a screen, i design for it.

It’s been nearly a year since I officially made the switch from lead UX to product manager. I can look back on this past year and say that it may have been the year I grew the most professionally. The response I’ve gotten from most people is that it was quite a jump to make- which I will agree with. I came from a place of comfort and knowledge as a UX designer. I had years of experience and had worked on all sorts of projects. I knew what the processes and tools were. I knew what questions to ask and how to solve common problems. I was in my comfort zone.When I became a PM I basically started over. I had to be okay asking very very basic fundamental questions- which was a bit rough on the ole’ ego at first. I was coming from a place of strength and leadership and basically put myself in a place of unknowing.This was actually exactly what I wanted, though. I’m a firm believer that if you’re not challenged you’re not growing. In life- and in tech especially- if you’re not learning you’re stagnating and falling behind the curve. Acknowledging that I was going to be a little shaky at first made things easier. I gave myself 3 months to second-guess myself and be okay not being confident in my answers. I knew from my experiences in product design things would click- I just had to be okay being the new kid on the block again.Basically changing roles changed my goals. One of the reasons I made the transition was because when I honestly took a look at where I wanted my future to be I didn’t see it leading a design group. I was more interested in strategy and listening to not only the user but the market as well.For years prior my career path centered around design. I knew what that looked like. I knew what a design director’s role was. I already had a network of kickass designers, but not kickass product managers.So, I started engaging with different people both at home and online. My work network changed, and I really enjoyed it. It was a whole other tribe in the software development community. I found myself relating to PM’s. It was around that point that I felt really comfortable in my move and confident in my new role.Being a product manager isn’t like other roles. There are so many different types of PM’s and so many different types of companies all in different phases of growth and development. You can’t just go major in product management or assume an MBA is going to get you where you need to go. I did my best to get a strong base in fundamentals and then apply my own experiences on that. I tried to up my game in the finance and general business categories as well as professional development in general. I watched videos, listened to podcasts, and dabbled in free online courses. I also asked mentors and people in the community for their favorite books. Then I read those books. Then I went and talked with those people about the books they recommended and asked for more. I gave my Evernote a workout for sure.Here are a few of my favorite links from my internet stash:I found that list from There are in fact many awesome articles on Medium. There are also articles that I call total BS on. Great lesson in being a PM: trust your gut. I’ve found I spent too many Friday nights on I looked at I got to know I started following different bloggers. I’ve got a bunch now, but I enjoyed finding new content and people that provided focus and new ideas.#hustleProduct Management 

I have always said, “UX is a team sport.” This is because often we are our own worst enemies when working in UX by ourselves.It is easy for a designer to slip into the trenches of doing without coming up for air. Checking, communicating, examining and challenging the design may fall by the wayside.We also slip into the opposite mode and get stuck in the clouds — becoming paralyzed by inaction and indecision. In this moment we need to dig in and experiment by doing.A strong UX team has people on it who can live in both of theses worlds, as both are necessary for any project. A great way to combat falling too far into one or the other is to work with a others who can hold you accountable or challenge you in the areas you are weaker. I believe this is true for any domain — we pair program and code review each others work in development — but this is often undervalued in UX.The other reason I believe in “UX as a team sport” is the aspect of collaboration. For this I have two points: 1. holding a project too close to your chest when working alone, and 2. the quality and speed of decision making when working alone vs. collaboratively.Anytime a person works on a project by themselves for an extended period of time that project tends to become their “baby.” And as is the case with pet projects, it is much more difficult for that person to receive feedback. They have invested so much, their mind shuts out external input by those who have not. This is nearly always to the detriment of the quality and success of that project.I have observed this not only in myself, but from the highest C level position to lowest junior level position. This psychological effect impacts us all. And while it is true it affects each of us to varying degrees, I have yet to see anyone who is immune.With all projects we face a bountiful harvest of decisions. Beyond the typical decisions, we face an even greater plethora of micro-decisions. Often a dysfunctional team will slow down the speed at which they make decisions. But with a small, collaborative team I believe that micro decision time is actually reduced.My reasoning is this: when facing a few decisions we are capable of burning through them alone. Once we begin to uncover the mountain of decisions we can become paralyzed. Being able to bounce ideas off of a peer — not eventually but immediately — we are able to rapidly collaborate on those ideas and reach decisions quickly.Additionally, with peer collaboration when making decisions we are challenged by them. Often, we may not see all sides of a problem or find other perspectives. Peers working in functional teams will engage in productive conflict and and thus vet a decision more thoroughly than a designer working alone. So then working in a team we not only increase the speed of decision making but also the quality.You are not alone. By that I mean that many of us that work in the UX field do work alone. So here is some advice:Thank you for reading. I would love to hear what you think, or what advice you would share with others in this situation on twitter I love solving real problems for real people.

Deciding to hire a dedicated copywriter can be a tough decision for many design teams. It means prioritizing things that are often seen as nice to haves, particularly for startups — voice and tone, brand and personality, and wordsmithing. There’s often the perception that a copywriter will be merely polishing already-adequate copy written by designers, product managers, or engineers. Faced with the choice of hiring a writer and hiring another designer, many teams will have trouble choosing the role that is “only” writing, especially if getting resources is already a battle.A writer probably won’t be your first (or fifth, or even tenth) hire. But do any of these situations sound familiar?If so, a writer can help you.Good writers are good thinkers. Writing well requires understanding and clearly defining problems, accurately identifying audiences and shaping writing toward their needs, and taking input from multiple sources and synthesizing it into a coherent narrative. As a student, these skills are used to translate research into arguments and term papers. In the product design process, these skills mean a resource who knows how to take an ambiguous situation and act as a force for clarity.Good writers build consensus. A strong writer will know when to do research, will have internalized how your users think and feel while using your product, and will be adept at getting your marketing, product management, support, sales, engineering, and executive teams to all feel heard and validated. Good writers understand that their job is sometimes 25% writing copy and 75% making all their stakeholders feel good about that copy.Good writers aim to do more than write grammatically perfect strings. Writers can name features and products, craft narrative experiences, and help your product develop stickiness and emotional resonance. They can set up frameworks and strategies for help centers, notifications, and messaging about sensitive user issues like privacy and payment. They can tell the whole story of your company in a way that resonates with users, press, job candidates, and investors.Good writers also — no surprises here — write well. Clear, effective copy can influence metrics such as conversion, NPS, and task completion and has broader effects throughout the product. Best of all, writers can scale their impact by creating style guides and templates so that everyone in your organization is empowered to create consistent, accurate, on-brand copy.Rather than prioritizing specific previous experience, look for smart, flexible, confident candidates who have strong portfolios. When hiring your first writer, look for breadth over depth in the portfolio — microcopy, product tours, headlines for marketing campaigns, and FAQs. Specialization in one area can come as your team grows, and you can’t forsee what the work will look like in six months. Hire a general athlete who can adapt.Writers with backgrounds in travel writing or help documentation are often particularly good at writing with clarity and precision, since they have experience writing about complicated procedures and logistics. On the other end of the spectrum, experience in advertising or marketing can be invaluable in helping communicate your product’s benefits and shaping your brand voice. Typically, though, a writer who is strong in one area can quickly pick up new skills.Administer a quick writing test to all candidates, no matter how dazzling their portfolios. Particularly if this writer will be writing, reviewing, and shipping her own language with minimal review, make sure she’s got a good grasp on mechanics. On the other hand, beware of candidates who overemphasize their copyediting chops. You want someone who can spot the grammatical errors in your job posting, but who doesn’t think that qualifies her to do the job.When interviewing, look for all the qualities you would in a strong designer. A good writer (like a good designer) will care about user research and usability, about measuring the impact of her work, about the product voice and which words will communicate it well, and about having a strong team around her to set her up for success. She’ll be Here’s the bad news: one writer can’t do everything, and there are specific things writers can never do, no matter how many of them there are.Writers can’t fix larger UX problems. If copy is all that stands between your users and failure, you have a bigger issue. A writer can, however, help you see all the places you’re relying on copy as a crutch, and improve these the weak points in your UX.Writers also can’t fix your business. No matter how good they make your product sound, if there’s no market for it, they can’t make users pay. A good writer will tell you when you’re asking them to lie to sell a product, and you should listen.A good writer isn’t afraid to try defining a product that hasn’t existed before, but she can’t do it alone. Writers need the same things designers to do flourish: an understanding of business priorities, a clear product vision, enough time to practice their craft well, actionable and substantive feedback, and plenty of sticky notes.We’re building a UX writing and content strategy practice at Oh, and UX Writing Lead 

Petty observes that quite a number of UXers that come from big companies have had the luxury of specializing, on research or interaction design for example. Small ambitious teams require someone that is willing to turn their attention to a wider range of activity, from conducting some research on Monday to using InVision to craft an interactive prototype on Friday.It’s also the case that UXers are not telling their own story clearly enough. They might be capable of what is required of the role but poor portfolios and cv/resumes hinder their appeal and ultimately limit the opportunities available to them. Understandably, designers spend most of their time designing for other people and often neglect their own brand or Internet presence.Petty prefers to see a nuanced story when looking for the right designer. Someone who is able to effectively tell the story of how they went about tackling a design challenge.Need help in creating the perfect portfolio? Pop on over to UXswitch for more tips and advice.If you fancy joining as a designer GoCardless and innovating around online payment, See original article UXswitch is about putting the Experience in to finding a UX job. Your wish list is matched with only the best UX recruiters  employers. For UXers, by UXers

Since the launch date, Bungie denies making the user interface more interesting, fun and advanced to use. The updates are not so good as expected and do not bring many new features, only minor adjustments and bugs corrections. Even the DLCs failed in deliver something interesting for the player in terms of user interface improvement.Destiny is repetitive and required to play a In the 3 or 4 hours spent playing, it’s normal the player losing 30–40 minutes on menu screens. Thinking about this problem, I thought about some solutions to reduce it.Some basic shortcuts on the menus, improvements on the gameplay and a new interplanetary navigation system will make time spent playing Destiny a lot better and improve player’s life. Starting by reducing the amount of loading screens. Here is a simple change to the navigation system:One shortcut in the Once accessed the • Ability to switch beyond of basics three equipped weapons. The • Messy and long road to access the recharging system in battles. The • Bounty master. The dance command and other social communication controls will be located on different screen, using a incredible The interface solution here is similar used in Battlefield franchise.The select/back button now needs to be held down to activate theThe idea is to let the D-Pad free to be used by the Working with design and UX, I’ve learned that research for good examples its fundamental for a great results. Some The idea is not to bring all weapons arsenal for this functionality. The basic functionality is a system provide a set of custom weapons pre-defined by the player in the equipment menu. It contains: three primary weapons, three special weapons and three heavy weapons, being possible to quickly switch between them in the This is an example how the system will work. The player could choose 3 weapons of each kind. Each weapon has its individual amount of ammunition and individual refills in the Alternates the weapons in left and right D-pad. See it below:If the player already has fitted an exotic weapon, the gun is not available in fast switch menu, forcing manually unequip exotic weapons.Finally and very important, to reload your ammos synthesis, use D-pad up, simple as that, and the time penalty will be displayed next to the weapon board.Tower, Tower and Tower. You always have to go there!If the loading was short, it would not be a problem. But tower’s loading takes almost 1 minute. It makes me yawn! The constant trips to the tower would be basically to socialize with others players, but this rarely happens, because there is no advanced communication system or chat area in interface.With social tools settled in the Bounty tracker will have a Destiny needs to be improved and small changes can be fundamental to the future of the game, making the Destiny universe more friendly and easy to play. I researched a lot before, devoting myself to this article.I found a lot things and many UX improvements proposals of other players (Reddit), who are also dissatisfied with the current state of experience in the game.I could keep writing forever about improvements, but my intention is only to propose a system to switch weapons fast. What bothers me most in the game is have more than 30 weapons in the arsenal, and many of them needs experience points and use them at certain times.—What I have shown you is reality. What you remember, that is the illusion.

Haftalık derlenen UX ve UI tasarım notları. UX süreçleri, araçları, tasarım fikirleri.UX Notları mail listesine göstermiş olduğunuz ilgiden dolayı teşekkürler! Haftalık mailleri, her Cumartesi gönderiyorum. UX Notları mail listesine UI designer, developer. Co-founder of Haftalık derlenen UX ve UI tasarım notları. UX süreçleri, araçları, tasarım fikirleri.

In this post we will look at the thinking of the User Experience professional as it relates to software design.User Experience is a user or viewer’s experience with an application (web site, mobile app, blog, e-commerce store, etc.).User Experience is quite difficult to classify. As software designers, we talk around UX all the time. We constantly explore the boundaries of substantive feedback and criticism with our peers.User Experience (UX) designCan a visitor easily and intuitively use an application? Furthermore, can ALL visitors easily use an application, including those who are a bit older, those with large fingers, those with degraded vision, those with poor monitor contrast, those who do not respond quickly to icons, etc?Can we propose a set of criteria to evaluate a software application? Many times our teams have gathered around a conference table or monitor, with no real substantive feedback or critique other than personal preference like “I don’t like green” or “Add a modal, add a shadow” or “I hate that font”.Does the size of elements reflect their importance? Does the position of elements on the page reflect their importance? What is the primary, secondary, tertiary purpose to each screen?Is an interface easily usable in the event of the following?Is color used consistently to indicate the nature of links and action elements?Is clear descriptive language used for buttons and navigation elements? For example, “Save”, “Continue to Step 2”, “Update” vs the generic “Submit”.Does the state of objects change visually to provide feedback to user actions? For example, ‘selected’ states for navigational items.Is form layout consistent across each part of an application? Is that layout the most efficient, useable and intuitive for the user?Is an application still useable with more data added to the interface? For example, things seem to work well with three widgets in my list. What happens if I add 100 widgets to my list?Does an interface respect users with physical constraints? Are click targets large enough and intuitive to provide easy use?Is an application still easily useable by first-time visitors? Many designers get fatigued while creating their interfaces and completely overlook the fact that the unconditioned visitor will be confused by how their interface has evolved.Does an application respond effectively to the visitor’s screen size? Is an interface easily useable on the following:Author of Rocket Fueled Process (

If you had ever put thought into launching your own app or startup, you would have come across a thousand and one articles on how user experience (or UX) is the pillar of any self-respecting startup.Unlike other articles like this, I am not going to justify this post by delving into a list of success startups with puke-inducing design.No, I’m not going to talk about how Cragslist, eBay, Gmarket and MySpace were ugly but insanely popular.I am also not going to talk about how startups should focus on feature set rather than UX. That is the false dichotomy of overlooking alternatives for you.My first startup was incubated, and I have since returned to that incubator as a Mentor. From my observation, what strikes me most is that 99% of the startups being incubated there spend 99% of their time working on the UX of their apps and website.Their apps are pixel perfect, and they spent hours debating the placement of every button, how they should color each button to ensure the highest probability of user activation, and going through the screen flow to ensure minimum ‘friction’.6 months later, they have the most beautifully designed website or app that nobody knows about or use. They run out of time, money, or both and collapse. All that effort in polishing the app or website down the drain.How did THAT happen?Think about it. When you are building an app or website, you are building something that helps users with their needs or wants.I tend to look at it this way: If users need you enough, they wouldn’t mind dealing with kinks and flaws in your UX. On the other hand, if your services are not relevant, needed or wanted, even the best UX designer cannot rescue you from that inevitable pit of failure.A startup is so much more than the app or website it produces, don’t you think? Chief among your non-UX concerns are your go-to-market strategies and execution (user acquisition), your talent acquisition and retention, and your source of cash and cashflow.Your UX won’t break your company. Any of those three items listed above will.A startup still working on their app probably have not proven their market validity yet. To prove validity, we have to launch first (or early), launch fast, and iterate fast.If you went for good UX the first time, this means that it becomes harder (emotionally, and in terms of time and money) to tear down what you have built for another go when you realize the first version didn’t quite work with the market (and this almost always happens).Know that there will be changes, and there is no point trying to get anywhere close to perfection the first time or second time.You want the market to tell you if you are on the right track with your business assumptions and solution. You want to know if you have the right product market fit.All too often, users or beta users confuses good UX with a good product. They get a general sense of satisfaction when using your app, and would send you the mistaken signal that your app is on the right path.They will tell you they like your app, like using it, and are satisfied with it. But it is next to impossible to tell if this is because of your good UX design or that you are on the right track with your app or website.If you can take good UX out of the test scenario, you strip your app bare and expose your app for what it really is. Then, you can get real feedback on whether your assumptions and solution are right.Consult with 5 different UX designers and you would come away with 5 different definitions of what good UX is about.Throw your app or website in front of 50,000 users from all ages, races and occupations and you can’t find one thing that everyone agrees on.Don’t bother. Make something people really want or need, and they will make do with what you designed.To me, UX is about increasing your competitive advantage. When you have many competitors, in the same exact market, targeting the same exact demographic, good UX will give you a definite edge.But that is a story for later. Good UX will come as you and your company mature.Don’t worry about it. You will cross that bridge when you get there. IF you get there. That is the hard part.Programmer since I was 13. CEO  Founder of Originally US. No bullshit digital marketing and app development.

“Make a list of everything you can do with a brick.”I frantically start to scribble in my notebook. Rows of unusual ideas materialize as my hand flies across the page. A smear of black ink streaks as my finger brushes the wet ink of the previous line. I lightly chew the inside of my cheek. My hand starts to cramp, so I stop writing to shake it out. I catch a glimpse of my neighbor’s notebook — perfectly penned rows of text with evenly-spaced bullets — and continue to jot down thoughts in my sloppy, uneven handwriting.“Okay everybody, let’s go around the room and introduce ourselves. Tell us your name, what you do and the first and last items on your lists.”I twist around in my chair and listen as people introduce themselves, chuckling at ideas such as “throw it through a window” and “hit somebody in the head.” When it’s my turn, I clear my throat.“My name is Landon Schropp and I’m a developer and entrepreneur. My first idea is to build a house. My last is cruise control.”Yesterday, I attended By the end of the workshop, I was doing mental gymnastics from all the great information I had learned. Here are a few of my favorite lessons from Jon and William.If you’re hungry for more, the Im a developer, designer and entrepreneur based in Seattle.Articles from friends we’ve met in UX Launchpad and Design Play

Face it, your car’s User Experience (UX) is an afterthought. Whether you’re driving a €200.000 Ferrari or a classic family car, the in-car UX will be equally bad. Manufacturers spend their marketing budgets on aligning the models with the brand. They all tell tales of empowerment but the actual in-car UX feels quite the opposite nowadays. Geoff Teehan already wrote about in-car UX failures in his witty Why can’t we have the latest and greatest User Interface (UI) in our cars? The problem is the different product lifecycles. In-car UIs need to be It all comes down to different paces, as The average lifespan of our mobile hardware might be 2 years but the software won’t even last that long. UI design becomes outdated very quickly. The first iPhone was released 8 years ago but its UI looks like an eye-soar. It’s impossible to have a UI stay beautiful throughout the years.The first big trend is fighting the status quo of bad car interfaces. New companies like Tesla try to None of Tesla’s UI is that new though. If we look at the 2011 Volvo concept car, we see much of the same interface.No human is flawless and drivers are no exception. Nearly 1.3 million people die in Speed kills and it’s a difficult problem to tackle as car manufacturers often market the top speed and overall performance of their cars. Toyota created an app to make drivers more aware of speeding and The main trend here is equipping cars with an abundance of sensors that monitor all aspects of the car itself car and its driver. Cars will detect when you’re not watching the road (and know when that’s a problem and when not). An At the same time car UIs will BMW provides a set of gestures to perform key tasks such as adjusting the volume or accepting a phone call. These kind of innovative UIs will phase out as the awkwardness and inconvenience are higher compared to current solutions like accepting a call on the steering wheel or by voice commands.Luckily there will be other interactions that need less eye contact using Apple designer Matthaeus Krenn created a proof of concept of such an interface: depending on the number of fingers you use you can control all the settings of your car quickly. The UI adapts to the kind of setting: changing volume is a different scale than changing audio source.A similar app based on the same principles (though a lot less attractive) is available for Android. Apps like The ultimate being Google’s self-driving car that seems to haveThe two big mobile players (Apple with iOS and Google with Android) are fighting for the dashboard and want to become your car’s UI. They have a strong voice as any current smartphone is many times more powerful than the average car interface. More importantly, our phones contain our lives. Your upcoming meeting’s address? The audiobook you just downloaded? All there, right in your pocket.We use Google Maps to navigate us anywhere and expect the same quality from our car’s GPS, yet the typical in-car or after-market system can’t compete so the smartphone experience enters our cars and takes over.Apple and Google both have their solutions ready and manufacturers are starting to implement it in their lineup. With CarPlay you basically use the bigger screen in your car, as the intelligence is in your phone (like your The influence of mobile devices on cars will continue with mobile operating systems being at the front and center. Big manufacturers will have their own Android-based OS that runs the car UI.But there’s more than just connecting. The next step is Taking control also means Even though software is eating everything, some car companies still try to work their magic with As the software lifecycle is very short, manufacturers will have to either keep up or drown in the sea of more advanced mobile devices. Newer manufacturers like Tesla have built-in data connections for free Yes, data is eating the world and the automotive industry is no exception. Cars are data powerhouses. The more sensors they equip, the more they can tell about themselves and their environment. With high gas prices for example, insights in fuel economy can save you a lot of money. At the same time your car could predict car failure and save you fixing costs.The self-driving car from Google generates almost Startups like It’s a matter of time before big manufacturers start selling these after-market add-ons to upgrade their older cars. Bringing a connected experience to their older models or maybe even models from another brand, so they get insights from their competitors. These kind of product-service systems (PSS) could be a welcome new revenue stream for manufacturers that struggle bridging the time between car purchases.Sharing Manufacturers will need to make changes to the car UX to support this change. I often use a car-sharing service called The rise of Cambio, BlaBlaCar, UberPOP/X and Lyft will continue with many more services to follow. But it doesn’t stop there. More grassroots You rate the driver and they rate your car while Getaround provides insurance for both. People don’t give their car keys to random strangers, so the social aspect here will be very important. But after a while, accepting a user will be one Tinder-swipe away!Product designer at Namahn. Sourdough baker at home.

Most tech startups generally begin with a strong engineering-focus to get off the ground. They decide they want to create an app so they hire developers to start building things and then add an Agile project manager to organize it all.A common problem arises when a shiny new UX Designer joins midway through the project because your developers don’t have the time nor expertise to make your product user-centric. By then you could be too far along to take action on the research that uncovered a boatload of required changes. Your scope will creep and you don’t have the budget to adjust. Everyone is overworked but your new hire will stand in the corner pondering his / her job security. No one will end up delighting in your product and you can’t articulate why.Think about this person as your The value of being experience-focused from the start will help you get a better handle on your project. A good UX professional will start off by asking the right questions with a childlike persistence. This skepticism will help you stay lean, move closer towards building the right product, and helps you solve the most important problems first.Every member of your startup becomes so used to wearing their version of the UX hat that it can become difficult for you to justify hiring your specialist.Here are the most common UX hats I’ve encountered at many places I’ve worked at:A key thing to consider here is whether these things should exist within the realm of the team members above. There’s no doubt that the entire company should be experience-focused but recall that they need to focus so you may need the specialist to offset the tasks here.The difference with how a UX professional will work and think is in how the information gathered is synthesized into action items. Your team may not question every move they make and you may not have a grasp of the holistic impact of subtle changes.Instead of asking “How should X look?” your hire will ask “Should there even be an X there?” or “why is X necessary at all? This process is absolutely more disruptive when the questions are asked mid project. You can UX, Maker, Thinker, Writer, Mentor

My friend is going through a divorce. Like When this UX intrusion happened to her, it reminded me of a similar, psychological violation I’d read about four months earlier. That post, I remember first reading this post the day it was published, Christmas eve 2014. When I went to look it up after my friend’s own violation by a Facebook app module I was surprised to (re)discover that it had been titled, generously, “But of course, it did come from an actual person. “[The app] was awesome for a lot of people,” the product manager for Facebook’s Year in Review app, Jonathan Gheller, later “In creating this Year in Review app, there wasn’t enough thought given to cases like mine, or anyone who had a bad year,” Meyer wrote. “If I could fix one thing about our industry, just one thing, it would be that: to increase awareness of and consideration for the failure modes, the edge cases, the worst-case scenarios.”If I could fix one thing about Last year in the US, Right now These are not “edge cases.” These are not “worst case scenarios.” These are all “The design [of the Year in Review app] is for the ideal user, the happy, upbeat, good-life user,” Meyer wrote. But if you are a product manager or UX designer creating experiences that will affect hundreds of millions of people and you are only designing for an “ideal user”… at best that’s just As Oliver Burkeman writes in Much in the same way that the “just world” cognitive bias can actually lead us to make crueler decisions, designing product features with the “happy, upbeat, good-life” ideal user bias can lead us to create crueler user experiences.“To shield ourselves psychologically from the terrifying thought that the world is full of innocent people suffering,” Burkeman writes, we, as humans, “endorse policies more likely to make that suffering worse.” And by denying the full spectrum of the realities of people’s lives, awesome and tragic, we, as experience designers, do the same. Except we’re the ones with the power to actually do something about it.“Just to pick two obvious fixes,” Meyer wrote at the end of his post, “First, don’t pre-fill a picture until you’re sure the user actually wants to see pictures from their year. And second, instead of pushing the app at people, maybe ask them if they’d like to try a preview — just a simple yes or no. If they say no, ask if they want to be asked again later, or never again. And then, of course, honor their choices. This is… designing for crisis, or maybe a better term is empathetic design.”Or how about just, you know, design.In the wake of Meyer’s post, the product manager for Facebook’s Year in Review app But four months later, Facebook’s photo collage assault on my friend suggests perhaps they don’t really think they can.“Faced with evidence of injustice, we’ll certainly try to alleviate it if we can,” Burkeman wrote, “But, if we feel powerless to make things right, we’ll do the next best thing, psychologically speaking: we’ll convince ourselves that the world isn’t so unjust after all.”. . .UX Strategy@ brightincorporated.com || Writer @ socialcreature.com

Fixing and updating my portfolio over the years has been unpleasant, especially when rushing in order to apply to jobs. After attending Portfolio Day with AIGA in San Francisco, I decided to ditch my custom designed and coded Wordpress portfolio for a simple Squarespace. Here are my reasons:While at Portfolio Day, I received continual feedback that my portfolio was not showing my process enough. This was confusing because I started with a lot of text to explain to full story of my UX projects. However, I noticed people didn’t stay on my site long enough to read the text and skimmed the images.After gathering enough photos from my past work, I added in the text and bolded key terms for scanners. Time will tell if this method works better than my previous attempts.No matter the quality of the content, it will never be able to show my true capacity as an interaction designer (I think we can all agree we’ve seen enough generic sticky note images). In fact, nothing would be better than giving me a problem while I have a marker in hand at the whiteboard (see portfolio image at bottom).This is a similar process as other disciplines such as software engineers. They don’t get judged on portfolios; they get judged if they can’t complete a Fizz Buzz. Already, we’re seeing senior level designers without portfolios or others speaking out about their poor representation.For the past couple years, I’ve talked to several designers about “full-stack” design, which is visual design, interaction design, and programming mixed or some similar capacity. In contrast, some designers are siloed, which means they only do one of the latter disciplines. Different companies seek different types of designers. Companies such as Facebook, Pivotal Labs and other startups want full-stack while Salesforce, Google or Oracle want siloed designers.Because I’d worked at startups, my portfolio attempted to show UI/UX skills, however I’ve always thought I was better at IxD and UX.While at my portfolio reviews, a large amount of the viewers were distracted by the visual design. Too much padding here, too much blue there, etc…After the fourth or fifth redesign over six years, my portfolio is just not interesting to design anymore. I’d much rather be working on a cool product, someone else’s brand, or a passion project. Unfortunately, this showed in my visuals.Because my portfolio took so much time, I would continually end with half-finished designs when I thought the version was passable.So, I mentioned that whole “time” issue. My latest portfolio took around 40 hours to complete from visual design to changing PHP or other Wordpress code. My time would have been much better spent learning specific topics or solving problems for projects other than a portfolio. I can’t imagine the struggles designers go through that don’t know how to code. It would be impossible.After all the years of doing custom portfolios, it was painful at first to switch to a website like Squarespace. However, I think it was an inevitable change. This time, I spent three working days on my portfolio, with the chunk of that time spent on the content in my project pages and much less time programming or tweaking the theme design. I now feel it shows my process and allows for easy updating or expansion. As another bonus, I no longer have to wrestle with Wordpress for my blogs as I’m using Medium (obviously).Going forward, I would definitely consider these arguments while working on your own portfolios. Someday, we might not have much need for them at all.Want to see where my portfolio is at now? Check out Further reading: Product Designer. Past 

Everybody loves a pat on the back. It feels great to be told that something we’ve done is good, has worked, or has achieved something. It’s also well-known that positive reinforcement can be a far better strategy than negative chastisement in motivating a workforce (or when training a dog, incidentally). We react I’m not about to dispute that.The key take-away is this: Previously, while contracting on a service design project, I began to notice a culture of unwarranted back-slapping. Regular company update meetings gave way to hearty ‘aren’t we doing well?’ rhetoric. Particularly after a user testing feedback session — relatively shaky insights would be spun into great successes;User clicked the intended button? High-five!User progressed through the test flow User Areas where the user experience might have been greatly improved were being forgotten amidst the hurrahs. Almost as if one positive insight could discount two or three not-so-positive insights. Designers remained satisfied they’d done the job Let’s be clear, identify successes. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. There are more productive ways of communicating the status of the project or test results to the wider project team:I get it. It’s easy to become so engaged in nurturing a project to fruition that we create the environment for it not to be questioned. In fact, more dangerously, we can set out to ‘prove how good it is’, subtly orchestrating user testing sessions to ‘validate’ what we already think about it. Reporting back to the team later on, we might cherry-pick small triumphs and mask less positive analyses to maintain morale — especially if the project has a lot at stake. This can actually be counter-productive. Balance your feedback.Freelance UX Designer. Eyebrow-raiser.a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

I recently travelled from London to Corfu, a beautiful Greek island where my grandmother lives. I enjoy my visit there every single time. She is a lot of fun to chat with and I’m always blessed with warm milk and her handmade cookies, which I can’t have enough of.As we were chatting and laughing, one thing stood out to me; her set of keys.She is carrying around a set of 3 keys of almost the same shape and color. On the bow of each key, there is a piece of crudely torn and glued on masking tape, with the numbers 1, 2, and 3 written on it respectively.Knowing her resourcefulness and recognising her handwriting, it was evident that this was her handiwork. I was intrigued.“Why are the keys numbered this way?” I asked her, while my hand was scanning the big bowl that was full of cookies.“Well, there are three doors I need to unlock before I get in the house; the porch, the entrance, and the main door. The numbers on the keys correspond to each door they open, in the order I open them.”, she enthusiastically explained and offered me another cookie.While I was loudly chewing the last bite of the cookie impatiently scanning the bowl for the next in line, the UX Designer in me couldn’t stop thinking about the keys. It was that brilliance and elegance of this solution to her everyday problem.Let’s break it down:Obviously, one can come up with numerous solutions to this problem, for instance, naming or color coding them. Without considering alternatives, she opted to number them in the exact sequence required to open each door; key number 1 opens the porch (first) door, key number 2 opens the entrance (second) door, and key number three her house (third) door.To sum up, my grandma, in her late 80s, to whom the term “User Experience” is unbeknown, (as is what I am doing for a living, despite my oversimplified explanations that always boil down to “something with computers”), managed to find a quick, simple, inexpensive and effective solution to a user experience problem she encountered.Having a deep understanding of the problem, clear expectations of the outcomes, and being fully aware of physical, contextual, and environmental limitations, she was able to quickly come up with a “no brainer” concept with zero iterations and no stakeholder meetings.Lastly, a few things I realised while I was soaking the last cookie in warm milk:Dreamer of a more exciting but less complex world through technology. 

Inspired by art and creativity. 

Applying UX Design to help realize it.

If you work in the web industry on large or complicated projects, you’ve most likely heard the phrase “We’ll just hardcode it” thrown around. Usually, it’s in response to a one-off flashy element for a single page. This is almost always a bad sign.This impulse generally comes up after the initial discovery period when everyone is excited and tossing out all ideas. In an effort to trim those ideas down for a tight timeline or budget constraint, we’re all tempted to ignore our better judgment in favor of something we know will really wow the client. In that situation, sustainability is almost always the first thing cut.But when teams do opt for a less sustainable option, and even if they feel like they have done their due diligence to explain the pros and cons to the client, the client is still always shocked when they want to add a new page and have to go through the design team again.Because that’s ridiculous, of course. It’s our responsibility as people who make things for the web not to let that happen, and that job starts with the Content and UX teams on day 1.There are a lot of aspects that go into designing sustainably, one of which is modularity. At its core, Modularity is a focus on building standardized units so that we can more quickly put together a variety of formations for a variety of different needs.A focus on modularity keeps the code clean, allows for faster updates and iterations, and creates predictable systems so that we can spend more time focusing on bigger issues. Think of it like lego blocks: if you had to re-build each block every time you built a castle, you’d spend all day on building a single wall. With the blocks already built, you’re able to focus on how many turrets you want, or how long the drawbridge should be. You know, the fun stuff.But this isn’t a new idea. There’s a lot of really smart people that have been saying for years that the future of digital design is in modular systems. If you haven’t already, I’d check out The downside of all the talk about modularity? It’s discussed a lot in development circles, and not nearly as much between designers or content strategists.Often strategists view it as a development responsibility, but it’s time to start taking on some of that responsibility ourselves. Not only is it more efficient from a workflow standpoint, but as strategists, we can leverage our standpoint between the client and the users to plan for long-term growth.We already have the unique position of translating the human part of the equation into Doing content strategy and information architecture in a modular way is actually very systematic. There are four main steps: assessing the user needs and content types, defining each content type by it’s elements, narrowing down repeatable blocks, then building and testing the system. I’d encourage you to keep the pieces that resonate with you or chime in with your own strategies. Every project is different.Every project starts with at least some level of Content Strategy. At its most simplistic level, After auditing the existing content, evaluating business and user goals, and planning for new content, the Content Strategist will typically put together a prioritized list of what types of things need to be on each page of the site, called a For example, I’ve created a fictional page table for this exercise.This speaks the client’s language, it’s easy to understand, and gives a clear outline of what type of content is needed. This prevents us from having last minute surprise content and also prevents us from designing and building elements that no one writes content for.The problem is: there is still a long way between this and a working development requirements doc. There’s really nothing modular about a page table, because it’s focus is on human needs, not page structure or systems design.Building a predictable system to meet these varied and complex content needs requires an act of translation. The first step is to start with breaking down and defining each of these content types by their basic elements.Listing elements primarily involves writing quick technical definitions of what each content type requires. This is the easy part. It’s important to cover every element required to build each piece of content, including titles, instructional copy, and buttons.I’ve listed these out in column C below.While each step in this process is designed to be sequential, you may need to revisit these answers along the way. As long as you consider fallout in columns D and E, it’s fair to expect this to be tweaked.Once each element is listed out, it’s time to do some pattern matching. Any grouping that lists on multiple pages we’ll consider a “block.” For example, if the newsletter signup needs to appear on three different pages and look the same on each page, that is one block.Pick a color to assign to each block. It’s not pretty, but makes the next step much easier. Leave any block that only appears on one page in black.From here, we know we need a WYSIWYG block on each one of these pages. We also know that we need a Contact block on two of the pages (Home, About Us), but on the About Us page that block needs one additional piece of information: a photo. Make a note of it in the notes column.While you’re going through, you also need to consider if any content types can be combined. For example, on the About Us page, the “Our History” text area and “Our Mission” text area can most likely be combined into one WYSIWYG. It’s less sustainable to break these out into two sections because it will be harder for the client to manage long term. It may help you to remember if you merge the two cells into one, shown below.Continue until you’ve gone through every piece of content in the page tables. Now is a good time to audit the amount of blocks, and see if you can trim it even further, or unify similar ones.When you have all of the blocks listed in column D, you can start assessing the amount of templates needed, as well as which pages can share templates.We have some clear similarities here between a few of the pages. “About Us” and “Careers” have the same blocks listed, so it’s reasonable that they could share the same template. “Our History” has almost the same blocks, with the addition of a testimonial block. We could consider building the testimonial block into every page and making it be optional, which wouldn’t require us to build another template. Or, if we know it will only ever be on this page, we could modify the template for this page only. This would be a great place to consult your developer on what they would prefer.At this point, you can get a concrete count of exactly how many unique templates you will need, development knows exactly what tools they will need to build, and we have a solid roadmap with which to guide the rest of the creative process.Speaking of development, if you haven’t already, now is a good time to sit down with your developer and go through all of the work so far. Solicit feedback, answer questions. You’re in this together, even if the bulk of their work hasn’t started yet.Here’s the tricky part. We’ve started building a comprehensive system, which is exciting. But sharing blocks with the same stylings across so many pages can feel restricting on a large site, and it requires a lot of careful design consideration from the start. For wireframes, this mostly affects the structure of the blocks and how they work relative to their surrounding components. In comps, you have to make sure the colors and typography can work visually on any page. That’s a tall order if you’re used to designing on a page by page basis.You quickly learn that the more common blocks need to be designed very simply, and the more unique or page-specific ones can be more adventurous. You don’t want a situation where the design system fails because you weren’t thinking broadly enough.But, of course, there will be occasional design exceptions. For example, say the Contact block is full width on every page, except for the Home page, in which it is only half width. Maybe it’s a higher priority on the homepage, so our only option is to put it in a half width space. If the design requires that, it’s important to assess how valuable that really is to the end user, and if it’s worth development writing an exception for it. If it is, make sure to make a note of it in your master block list.The block list doesn’t end with the wireframes: this is a core tenant of your project through launch. Both the visual designer and the development team should be basing their work off of this. Not all of your initial assumptions will have been right, but that’s what testing, iteration, and QA are for.It’s certainly not easy to design for this complex scenario, and it’s also not easy to explain to a client why you can’t just change the font size for the contact box on just this one page. Part of being a good strategist is being able to sell it, and to show the long term value of sustainability to the client. And once you’re familiar enough with this process that it saves you time, it certainly wouldn’t hurt if you spend that extra time on some cool flashy stuff.It’s important to write a thorough By spending a little extra time in strategy enforcing modularity, you’ll be able to spend more time focusing on the big complicated pieces of a project. You’ll avoid maintenance frustrations with messy code or multiple styles for similar elements, and you can assemble future templates faster with less design input. There’s also the unintended benefit of internal team communication: both strategists and developers can become much better at their respective jobs when they learn from one another. The end result is a stronger site designer 

AMA with Andy Vitale, Sr Interaction Designer at 3M HealthcareCo-creation is defined by Professor Thorsten and his colleagues at London Research and Consulting as “an active, creative and social process, based on collaboration between producers and users, that is initiated by the firm to generate value for customers.” This experience of co-creation becomes the basis of value, and that value creation process is centered on individuals and their experiences.The concept of customer participation in production, or co-production dates back to 1979. John Czepiel suggested in 1990 that customer participation may lead to greater customer satisfaction. The term began gaining traction in 2000 in a Harvard Business Review article by Prahalad and Ramaswamy, who went on to write about co-creation in detail in their book, Originally coined as a management and business term, companies began using co-creation as a tool to engage customers in product design.Nike was an early adopter, who through Nike ID allowed customers to create their own sneakers. In the mid 2000s, co-creation really caught on due to the rise in social media and began to drive marketing techniques. This led to co-creation morphing into what it is today. You can read a detailed history on Feel free to ask away along the way but in the meantime, I can dive into how co-creation works.Traditionally, before co-creation quality was based on what the business had to offer. Co-creation exposes the disconnect between company think and consumer think at the point of interaction which spans across multiple channels, options and transactions.Co-creation begins by recognizing that the role of the user has changed from isolated to connected, from unaware to informed, from passive to active. This is manifest in many waysHow many people go into the Apple Store and play with a device before deciding to buy it?The key is transparency. Of course people always want things that may not be feasible at the time. However, even as far back as MacWorld 2007, HP admitted that they were no longer able to design products and services alone. They learned that customer co-creation was to be a big part of their future.The biggest piece of the puzzle is the user. It’s great to collaborate with stakeholders and involve them but to ultimately co-create you need to involve the users throughout the process as well.It’s great to personalize products when possible but ultimately if you keep trying to design functionality for each users desires, you will never ship a product.Keep a feature list and spreadsheet and go over it with users and stakeholders to help prioritize based on resources.I stay on the project working with designers and developers and users to continue to build and test until we are ready to release and I will QA too so that I know the interactions end up as intended. From there it’s all about gathering feedback and continually improving the product.Designers have to do more than advocate for the users and assume they know the business before really understanding it. Rely on the users and stakeholders as they know what they want. On the flip side, when it comes to our process, they don’t know what they don’t know. We have to explain our process to them._________________________________________________________________Mostly tweets about Design, UX, Products, Marketing and startups. Lover of food and outdoors. Follow me as 

В продолжение вчерашней темы Параллакс — это техника использования на сайте нескольких слоев с целью создания 3D-эффекта при прокрутке. Некоторые называют это эффектом параллакса.Бесспорно, что хорошие сайты с эффектом параллакса выглядят изумительно. Когда в 2011 году компания Nike запустила свой сайт И хотя многие люди полагают, что крутизна и качество — это одно и то же, я видел столько аналитики подобных крутых сайтов, что не могу согласиться.Так что, параллакс — это хорошо для UX?“Я все скролил тот сайт вверх и вниз целых 10 минут. Ежу понятно, что параллакс — это круто”.Параллакс Эффект параллакса — это как маленький член: важно то, Если вы используете параллакс, чтобы обратить внимание пользователя на объекты, на которые надо нажать, — отлично!А если для чего-то другого, то ответ: нет, это не хорошо для UX.Параллакс-эффект заставит пользователя сказать “вау!” и проскролить сайт до самого низа.Но там, внизу, если вы спросите его, о чем был сайт, вполне вероятно, что он ничего вам не скажет.Почему?Потому что этот очумительный скролинг гораздо интереснее самого контента. Упс.Пользователь видел кучу крутых картинок и усвоил ноль информации.Если ваша цель — Но если ваша цель — Увлеченность зависит от того, что пользователь Пользователь, который проскролил сайт сверху вниз, ничего не помнит и никогда не вернется. Поэтому он бесполезен.И помните: вам Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. От профессионалов новичкам

UX design is the fastest growing design sector in Ireland. The IDI now has members from Price Waterhouse Cooper and a number of other big financial firms — this is a big switch. We now have large businesses that are actually creating in-house design teams to start look at innovative ways of packaging products that can be sold online or on a mobile platform. There’s a lot of investment now, but maybe not the resources to match. Intel are offering 200 new positions in UX in Ireland and you wonder where they’re going to get those designers — the colleges are slow in reacting to this. We should be introducing springboard courses to get people into UX. The penny is dropping with industry, in terms of the value and importance of design, and they will respond faster than anyone.Right now, I’d say the industry is at 5% of its potential. We’re moving from the period of technology into the period of design. And then of course, with the arrival of the internet of things — embedded technology — there’s going to be an increased need for collaboration and UX has a place in that.But, as I said, there are a lack of graduates in the field. Perhaps there’s a communications issue there – I think people tend to apply to traditional disciplines because they understand them, they understand and comprehend those roles, whereas many people don’t understand what UX is.This year, we tried to shake up the categories for the awards a little bit, to reflect changes in the design landscape. Up until now, the categories had been quite dated really. The idea of ‘connect and transform’ was something we’d seen in the UX awards in America, something which is a little bit less tied down to an artefact and more about how people were achieving a design product, which mightn’t have been something that was tangible, but more virtual. I’m hoping this is the beginning of moving the awards towards becoming a little bit more ubiquitous. And I think this year we’re going to see a lot more collaboration between disciplines, so that’s where I think the disciplinary boundaries are going to start to break down a bit.I’m hoping this is the beginning of a transition away from the atria of design disciplines and towards the measurable impacts of design. This is very challenging for us as people will complain if their exact discipline is not reflected in the awards.I’m a great believer in a blended model. I think increasingly we’re going to see people looking for more holistic solutions to problems, which will involve people from different disciplines working together. And I think that needs to be reflected in education and in the awards themselves, as well as in membership of design organisations and then into government policy.In terms of the IDI, we’re trying to establish a plan for UX in the long-term, but we need to increase our numbers internally before that can happen. The more UX people get involved and start realising we need to promote education and awareness within the IDI, the better. Our doors are open — you can come to us, and we will help you create targets and action change, but this doesn’t mean we will do it for you. The IDI is a community — what you get out of it tends to reflect what you put in.I think it would be really useful to have open-disciplinary workshops so people from different design disciplines, and even clients, got to actually know what UX could do. I think there’s a lack of knowledge in general, even within the industry itself, of how to define what UX is. Taking Frontend as an example, I know that there are seriously savvy tech people working here, as well as serious designers and serious systems people… so is UX all three of these things working together?The time is ripe for disruption. The recession pushed people out of their comfort zones and caused unexpected collaborations between designers. There are a lot of things that are broken and I think this is a great opportunity to propose how they can be fixed. Does that mean I think the government are going to propose that designers tender to fix the HSE? No, because the government doesn’t understand the value of design and disruption. But, we can see it being used effectively elsewhere — the New Zealand government is being redesigned at the moment from the ground up, by designers. The UK voting platform has been completely redesigned from a UX point of view and it’s been massively successful. If we’re going to let Irish people abroad vote, why can’t they vote online? Why don’t we trust the internet to do these things? There are so many systems that are ancient in this country — there’s great opportunity for disruption, literally everywhere. It gives you an idea of the potential of UX and service design in Ireland.Changing the categories for the IDI Disrupt awards this year was the beginning of disruption. You have to do it gradually, to be able to bring people with you. You can’t get radical immediately.We need to push innovation, and not just in the sense of innovating with traditional forms of design. You can have an innovative logo or an innovative chair, but I’m not sure that drives innovation itself… And the unfortunate thing about innovation in the abstract is that the press have no interest in it — they won’t feature UX in an article on design because you can’t show it to them. The government aren’t interested because they can’t get a picture in front it.My Milkman [an award-winning design solution by Frontend] is brilliant because it has a story, and I think we should take a lesson from that. Irish people are really good at stories and Milkman is a great story — people can relate to it. UX almost has a PR problem — maybe it should be telling its own story more.Award winning UX Design awesomness

Some experts fear that the sharing economy will destroy a traditional capitalism with its global corporations, banks, and supply chain. For instance, Uber — a simple service to search private drivers — that practically destroyed the licensed taxi labor market and led to mass taxi drivers’ strikes in New York, Chicago, San Francisco and London.However, this trending concept of sharing economy is not only about consumer behavior changing, it`s about mind transformation. Thousands of years ago it was necessary to find a local marketplace and get some goods through the barter deals. Later it became all about money, but nowadays new solutions appear to bring back a «hand to hand» model on a global scale.How can it change our reality? Let’s take, for example, music industry. On one side, hyper-distribution leads to a significant drop in profits from the classic forms of purchasing music content. On the other side, brilliant indie projects can appear on the market freely. Besides, market studies show that revenues from live performances increased significantly.Actually we are talking about the fall of market barriers. It’s never been easier to start your desired business, even if you don’t have enough resources. It means we have to find solutions that will fit a free market needs. New models to develop business at the age of sharing economy, because the economy which was held on resources deficiency disappearing. Instead of dictating terms to the client we must learn to predict his wishes.Even the banking monopoly is forced to take into consideration technological progress. Peer-to-peer loans from ordinary people, non-bank wire transfers, and crowd funding invade the inner sanctum. Bitcoin experiment went even further, in order to prove the possibility of an independent e-currency existence which entirely based on p2p technology.Lots of latest technology startups rocketed on sharing economy concept. For example, AirBNB started offering peer-to-peer property rental in 2008 and evaluated at a 10B dollars six years later. Sharing platforms are all around us: Uber for taxi, GitHab for coding, eBay for selling, Alibaba for wholesaling, TaskRabbit for helping, DogVacay for pets, GetAround for car rent, Parking Panda for parking, Postmates for delivery, Zopa for loans, Kickstarter for crowd-funding, Bitcoin for currency, Skillshare for education, Vayable for travel, 3DHubs for 3D printing and so on.Why do they succeed? Because they offer simple and clear solutions comparing with traditional competitors. To achieve that they have to understand consumers, find out consumers needs and behavior and put those insights in the framework of business model. Other words they using technology to provide an excellent user experience. Their design is literally disrupting industries.Take it into account — in user-centered economy you need user-centered service. Make a complete UX redesign of your product and start to share happiness with your users.Thank you for your time and attention.CEO  UX StrategistUser interface (#UI) and experience (#UX) #design agency focused on human centered design for #fintech and #banking industry. 

I am sure many of you heard or read the term UX, UX design or UX designer before. However, not everyone knows what it stands for. In this post I’ll introduce you to UX, show you how it started and why it became popular.UX simply means Interaction is what builds a relationship between a product and a user. It actually forms the portal that establishes user relationship with the brand. Our perception is created from the minute we walk into the store, interact with the seller, buy an item, unbox and use it. For instance, Apple and Nespresso use this concept to create a special experience for their customers. Thus, using UX to differentiate themselves from their competitors.A great experience is the one that is The goal of UX is to create a seamless and fluid experience. When designing and building the product, the designer consider all informations, details, and usage scenarios. Thus, many disciplines overlap and interplay in the process.One of the common misconceptions about UX field that it deals only with visual design. Actually, visual design is the only visible layer from the different layers that encompass UX process. One way to understand how UX works is by imagining an iceberg. An iceberg is a large floating ice sheet. You can see the top part but you can not see its massive part that is immersed under water. UX is very similar to that. It is composed of different essential elements that are not visible to the surface. What people see is the final interface that is created.Another way to think about UX is that its an overlap between science and art. There is a lot of quantitative and qualitative research used in the process to reach results. From researching the user, analyzing, prototyping to testing. Additionally, it is an art form because it generalizes solutions, collects components and looks at the big picture to meet users needs.Despite being a modern field, the basic principles of UX are ancient. A roman architect named Vitruvius introduced the concept of Late 19th century and early 20th century saw the rise of manufacturing. The focus was on using technology to increase production efficiency and increase profit. During the 40s, Toyota introduced the humanized production process. Instead of focusing on technology alone, now the focus is shifted on aligning technology with human capabilities. Then in the 1950s, Product development has shifted from manufacturing devices to creating Good designs are the ones that don’t leave users hanging or confused. They elicit positive emotions, create a memorable and a pleasurable experience. This can be achieved by using affordance. For example, in one video game app there is a controller like buttons on screen. They are added to afford players the feel they are holding a physical controller. As an Indie game player, I don’t see this affordance as interruption. Instead it enhanced my gaming experience through raising emotional connection with the game.Pinterest is another example of how affordance can play a role in shaping experience. It is a social media platform that allows users to share ideas or images they like. If you like an image, just hover over it and a pin it button will appear. Another good example is the game controller; the shape plays a role in the gaming experience. If you look at the image, you can see how PlayStation game controller shape evolved through the years.There are cases when enhancing a user experience can go wrong. For instance, Microsoft introduced a fictional small character called Clippy in their old word versions. Clippy was created to ease user’s experience by offering guidance and assistance when needed. They tried to create a sense of dialogue between the software and the person. However, it did not create pleasurable experience. Instead it was a source of frustration, confusion and annoyance. It kept popping up when it was not needed, offered irrelevant suggestions and disrupted work flow.Another design that failed despite its popularity, is Philippe Starck Alessi lemon juicer. Although the juicer invoked positive emotions and focused on usability, it did not succeed in the market. Some complained that it was not functioning effeciently and others said it did not add value. Why did Alessi juicer fail, despite following design guidlines and principles? Why some products are widely accepted while others not? Finding an answer to this question requires a deeper understanding of humans and their environment.I’ll leave you with a great video of Don Norman in Ted talk. He explains how good designs makes us happy then explains the levels of design (visceral, behavioral and reflective).References:Digital Experience Innovation

When I get into a conversation about the There are actually a lot of overlapping UX problems in the Internet of Things.Right now, companies are trying to make their connected product work, but few are focused on making it usable. There needs to be a designed experience for users to find value in connected products.One way to do that is utilizing Journey Mapping to understand the pain points of interacting with connected products.Part of designing for this nascent field will be educating users. How do we teach people not only how to use connected products, but also how it is beneficial to their life?We see a lot of onboarding for mobile applications to educate users on new applications. We can borrow that tool to enhance the learning experience here as well.As a UX Designer, I find that there are many opportunities for design to contribute to the Internet of Things. I’ve only briefly gone over a blossoming discussion of future technology that I hope UX Designers will become more involved in.get out of bed or die tryin

Lean UX is not designed to cut back on wasteful activity. As the phrase “lean body” indicates, the purpose of Lean UX is to achieve and maintain a lean (corporate) body make-up from UX perspective.In general, in order to successfully diet, I believe that it is necessary not to semi-forcefully restrict one’s own diet, but to rethink one’s life-style instead. This life-style corresponds to corporate culture within the corporate setting.By rethinking one’s corporate culture, wasteful activity is naturally reduced. To state it once again, the purpose of Lean UX is not to cut back on waste.In particular, with regards to the IT industry, I believe that a rethinking of corporate culture is going to be necessary in the immediate future. The reason for this is that changes in the IT industry occur shockingly fast. Beginning with Web 2.0, a popular phrase referring to new ways of using the web that gained traction era that around the mid-2000s, information acquisition and distribution channels, such as through mobile phone and tablet use, have grown exponentially in number. In addition, stories in the news reporting that some companies have grown to double their previous size while others were cut in half, and that some have gone bankrupt while others succeeded in procuring new funds, seem to appear every day.We all live within this kind of competitive society.In other words, going forward IT corporations must search out the answers to the questions:A certain company has analyzed the essence of these answers to their core, utilizing them to progress large-scale organizational reforms.The company is Yahoo!. Marissa Mayer, CEO of the company around 2 years ago, directed employees to physically share space. This provoked ill will among certain employees, but it resulted in Yahoo! being able to unify itself and a 74% increase in stock price over the year after she took her position. She is apparently recognized as one of the best CEO’s in Yahoo! history.She explained that in the current world, as it moves in a direction in which workers are no longer tied to offices and able to utilize the full potential of IT with a nomad-like work process, constructing an environment, in which ideas can be exchanged back and forth in a cooperative yet random way, facilitated the creation of new wonderful ideas. This is similar to the old Japanese saying of “Sannin Yoreba Monju no Chie”, which essentially means that two heads are better than one.Like Yahoo!, which successfully revised its corporate culture by prioritizing creativity over productivity, I believe that the true essence of a company lies in its culture. To design corporate culture; this is truly what Lean UX aims to achieve in the world.It is definitely not easy to undertake the challenge of revising one’s corporate culture. Corporations with long histories have especially large influence, and as almost 50% of corporations with more than 100 years of history are Japanese in origin, it is easily seen that Japan has trouble accepting change.Despite this fact, I am very pleased that Lean UX has been able to slowly penetrate the Japanese market. This is because I believe that Lean UX brings to the surface the problems that a corporation potentially face and acts as a trigger leading corporations to search out the true nature of their creative and productive capacities.This is not to make excuses, but it should made clear that Lean UX is neither a silver bullet nor a panacea. Lean UX is a form of management, a method, and a mindset. Therefore, Lean UX does not tie down users with rules such as what should or shouldn’t be done. We believe that if you give a good-faith effort to put into practice the things repeated on several occasions in this article, you will surely and naturally come closer to achieving the culture explained in this work, one step at a time.I am still inexperienced, but I hope to continue working, together with all my readers, toward creating corporate cultures that can draw out their true creative and productive capacities from UX point-of-view.User Experience Designer / Product Owner based in Tokyoa collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

Wonder what the UX of a $5 billion E-commerce company looks  feels like?The Company in Question is In order to get the feel of the entire process I would have to take you through the entire process right up to ordering something (yes I know you will say what about people that our window shopping well let’s leave that for the next session).Add yes I am going to test Snap Deals I am performing this analysis onI am going to buy a So here we go (there is big drama in the middle and a valuable summary in the end)Product Manager, UX  Information Architect

It’s graduate season and summer, which usually means companies are looking for candidates to help them achieve their goals as third and fourth quarter loom on the horizon. Also, some employees are ready to make a change (or have been forced to with layoffs) after spring didn’t bring with it a renewed sense of job or work/life fulfillment. Whether you’re a senior UXer or new to the industry, here are 10 interview mistakes to avoid as you venture out in search of your perfect employment match.1) Neglect their resume, thinking it’s irrelevant — your resume exemplifies your design aesthetic and how you organize material. It should be a showcase, not an afterthought.2) Don’t come prepared — it’s your job as the candidate to know why you are a great fit for the opportunity before you arrive. Research and practice your pitch.3) Forget to preload your portfolio or work samples onto a laptop or tablet — don’t depend on a good internet connection. Plan for potential problems and have saved digital and printed hard copies of your best work.4) Arrive late — being prompt signifies a lot about you as a potential job candidate such as self-discipline, preparedness, planning, and organizational skills. There are many steps and tasks you need to accomplish before you walk in the door and say, “Hello.”5) Fail to research the company or the people they will be meeting — do your homework by researching details on some (or all) of the following resources — company websites, employee message boards (Search Google with the company name and the phrase “employee message board”), 6) Use one word or brief sentences to answer questions — “Yes.” and “No.” don’t cut it. Go into detail using examples if applicable when answering questions. Refer to your prepared materials to highlight the skills or accomplishments you reference in your answer.7) Dabble in storytelling — don’t exaggerate or fabricate your experience. This will backfire on you 99% of the time. Even if you are caught in one small lie, people will think lying is a part of your character. It’s extremely easy to verify details in today’s digital world.8) Disrespect the receptionist, administrator or assistant — your interview starts the moment you enter the building. Be polite to everyone, learning and referring to people by name, which can put you more at ease since it forces you to focus on others rather than your worries or nerves.9) Ask questions that that highlight obstacles — hours, vacations, benefits, hardware/software, work locations — be careful not to mention anything that implies you are not flexible, available and committed. You can work out these details during subsequent interviews and through HR as you complete the hiring process.10) Preface answers with negatives or qualifiers — “no,” “just,” “once” and/or “only” — these words can convey negatives and inadvertently curtail follow-up questions and in-depth conversations. For example, what if that “just one” mobile project was a year-long engagement that completely changed how a sales force logged orders and how a company did business? You want the opportunity to speak about your achievements in detail. Since negatives can imply limited acumen, take care to answer questions either with an affirmative “yes” (when it makes sense to do so) or with an “I” statement, “Absolutely, I created….”Are you looking for a better user experience employment match? You can reach Lois discover // design // disrupt // 

Before studying and re-imagining the table feature,Before conceptualizing and redesigning the feature, some of the usersTo create and format the table in a seamless way, a interface that stays and works all time with the table was introduced.Here on the first action, user would be able to determine the spaceSoon after determining the space (Width  height) of the table, user would be either able to specify the rows and columns using the numeric input creation or dragging over the cells.(Newly named) Object ribbon allows the user to format in the way it was created. Which brings the seamless experience between creating and formatting the table.Here, user would be able to change the alignment, add custom no.of. rows and columns in the specified amount of space.Object ribbon that stays all time with the table can be toggled to show or hide.Young designer from, India. Frequently Experimenting with Art  Design (Thinking)

“We think too much and feel too little. More than machinery, we need humanity; more than cleverness, we need kindness and gentleness. ”Charlie Chaplin knew how to connect with his audience by being empathic and being real. We can also become empathic by focusing on our audience.We analyze data to extract statistical information about users’ behavior, but we can only see a result of users reaction, not a reaction itself. If we want consumers to build connections with our products we need to remember that users don’t have the same experience level, and they have not invested as much in a product as we did. We have to assume they don’t know anything about our product/service or about how to use it.Find not less than five people in your life with different skills and in different age groups that can serve as an ongoing help. These could be people in your life, your spouse, grandmother, friend, child and a person with a disability. You need to observe them in your daily life using different interactive products, without trying to change their behavior.All your observations should be done with kindness and gentleness. It’s not about showing your guides your cleverness. This experience if done with openness can take you out of your head and focus your mind on another person way of doing things.Mirroring our own experience is another way to think like a consumer of a product we are working on because we are consumers ourselves.Designing things to be easy to use doesn’t accomplish everything. If experience it’s not memorable consumers will not use it. Then, we need to think if we listened to their unique needs or just took them on the path that we thought was best for them. It’s always good to consider as my customized experiences as much as possible, although in reality budgets and timelines don’t always allow for that. We can however always look at a mirror and be honest with ourselves about our work, ideas, requirement of a project or clients expectations.Collaboration is a big buzzword in many corporate environments, but until it stops being that many might prefer to work alone. Collaboration has to do with relationships. Unless we work on the relationship that are real within the company a true collaboration might be difficult. One relationship that we have in common with our peers is our relationship with a consumer our audience. When focusing on our audience rather than what others collaborating with me will think, we can build a relationship with consumers and make everyone feel part of the same team.It’s a team brain melt that can produce ideas fast and fail fast, that a single individual might take longer to come up with.All designers know that simplicity is a key to good user-centered design, but as Charles Chaplin says “simplicity is not a simple thing”. I like to call it, design without noise because everything that’s not essential becomes noise in the design. It’s not all in the visual or making things simplified, as simplified doesn’t always equal simplicity.As a user experience designer, I need to ask myself constantly what’s essential in any given project. The essential is defined by stakeholders/clients, business objective, legacy, customer pain points and gains, etc. It’s our job to filter all the noise to find a value proposition that creates a desirable outcome and product that simply does all it needs to do. A lot of noise in the design is created by the need to sell users something down the road, which they might be happier to buy if we just let them get what they want when they want it.We are constantly driven to push our product design to be more efficient and profitable and look at data to observe consumer behavior. But do we really understand why some consumers might be stuck in a specific point in a user flow? We iterate on a design based on assumption that something is not efficient enough or doesn’t accomplish a certain task. We should be looking at experience end to end to find improvements instead of trying to improve a single step in a process. Without seeing a whole picture, we could be forcing our consumers into efficiency instead off trying to understand their real needs and problems.As a user experience designer, my hope every day is to design products that speak to real consumer needs or help them experience something new that might enrich their life in some way. To accomplish that it takes a daily commitment to leaving one’s wants and needs to focus on somebody else.Anita Wypych is a Toronto-based UX Designer of interactive products. UX Designer — Interactive Products. Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Hello there! I am a UX designer in Seattle and last month I spent quite a few evenings looking for a new job. Along the way I became really interested in my portfolio site’s analytics. I’m not a Google Analytics expert, but I learned a few key features that allowed me to see which of the companies I applied to visited my portfolio and how they interacted with the site.In this article I’ll walk you through my daily Google Analytics routine.This is a simple one. I always start out by setting the date range to “Today” to make sure I’m looking at the very latest information. The date selector is located in the upper right corner.The next step is to narrow down to visits from the USA (or your preferred country).I combined this data from what I knew about the companies I was applying to and who I was in contact with. For example, a visitor from Mountain View was most likely someone at Google; someone from Richardson, TX, was probably a Samsung recruiter.This is absolutely my favorite part. Narrowing down by Network Domain allows you to see which companies looked at the portfolio. It doesn’t always work, but when it does it’s awesome.Again, combine this with what you know about the company and the location. For instance, when I applied to Adobe I knew that if the visitor was in California she was probably the recruiter, if she was in Seattle it was someone on the team.Users Flow allow you to see the sequence of pages users looked at on the site. These require a couple more data points so if your site has very low traffic make sure you change the date selection to be at least a few days. I usually checked this about once a week.Once again, you can use the Network Domain to see the users flow for a specific company.To do thisThis is useful to see which pages and projects companies are interested in. It can also help you identify pages that are getting a lot of traffic and you might want to really polish.If you know of other interesting ways to use Google Analytics for portfolios please leave a comment.User Experience Designer in Seattle. University of Washington HCDE and iSchool alumna.

Merhaba! Gecikmeli olsa da Öncelikle UX Alive için Konferanstaki dikkatimi çeken olumlu noktalar:Olumsuz nokta(lar):Hasan Yalçın’ın projemizde bize yol göstermesi amacıyla tavsiye ettiği bazı metotlar ve kitaplar şu şekildeydi:UX Alive 2016da görüşmek üzere!UI designer, developer. Co-founder of Haftalık derlenen UX ve UI tasarım notları. UX süreçleri, araçları, tasarım fikirleri.

The hype about big data isn’t going to die down. Designing smarter, customer-centric experiences is becoming a basic requirement for developing a sophisticated product or service. This evolution calls for valuable insights, data analytics, and research to inform strategic design decisions.Rather than going with a look and feel scenario, UX professionals are being asked to dig deeper and utilize that data to inform design decisions. The shift in the industry is moving away from only getting by with visual design. Data-driven experiences are becoming the norm and the need to create experiences that resonate with a user’s pattern of behavior is becoming a priority.Big data is known as a collection of data that can come from sources that can be inside and outside a company. This type of information is continually being fed into organizations daily and it becomes a source for ongoing findings and analysis.Regular data is now becoming big data because it becomes large enough that it’s no longer easily processed by standard methods. With this surge in volume, spreadsheets become useless and processing data becomes difficult because it lacks the flexibility and the scalability to handle large quantities of information.However, once that information is processed, that big data set becomes very valuable. It can highlight some key metrics, which allows you to develop a tailor-made solution for a user.Making sense of this data is critical to the design, as it creates valuable insights that rely on having some context in mind. Without this context of the data, you’ll end up making generalized conclusions that won’t serve any purpose for the experience you’re trying to achieve.How is this relevant to creating better products and experiences? Big data allows us to expand our knowledge of what a customer wants. It also gives us an opportunity to develop products and services that are better suited to a customer’s needs.This type of data gives a deeper understanding of how customers behave and it allows a connection to them on a more meaningful level. It enhances the marketing activities by allowing analysis of customer behavior through multiple channels and gives an indication of whether the customer would most likely buy your products or services.It’s smart to use data from a variety of source to inform your design. Whether it’s web analytics, A/B tests, social media sentiment, customer surveys, sales data, stakeholder interviews, usability tests, or industry reports, all are valuable in developing an experience that’s engaging to your customer.Combining quantitative and qualitative research is a good approach as it ties in numerical insights with perceived behavioral characteristics. This approach will tell the real story of what needs to be designed.Web analytics can’t tell us everything that we need to know about a user’s behavior. The same can be said about usability tests. Big data is about variety and that means using multiple datasets. It creates a complete picture of how to produce designs and encourages users to engage and perform an action.Whether the data is big or small, it’s not flawless. You should easily find limitations and bias in every type of data that you evaluate. Good data always describes its biases and will provide some context of its limitations.When developing your prototypes or wires with an Using data is about making iterations, creating improvements, and discovering new opportunities to engage with your users. This is a way to figure out the story of real people using your products and utilizing that data to create an experience that suits and meets all of their needs.COO at 

Various drafts of this post have been with me for years.The title has evolved over time as my “answers” to the problem have swung back and forth. The problem itself has undergone several incarnations as Ive learnt new things and my experiences challenged its definition.The one thing that has stayed true for this article during the years of “draft-post prison” is that there Initially I thought it was pretty black and white. There are the organisations that “get” UX and there are the ones that don’t. You could draw it as a simple venn diagram. Us and them. You’re in or you’re out.Then e-commerce starts to mature and it becomes apparent that the divide isn’t just those who get UX and those who don’t, but something broader. Those organisations that do e-commerce, those who don’t but get UX and those that just don’t get it. It’s felt linear. A scale from the haves at one end to the have-nots at the other.E-commerce was where all the cool kids were. E-commerce was where all the conversion optimisation, A-B testing, analytics and creating delight was coming from. Add web-apps and mobile apps to the mix a few years later and we’ve got quite a sizable chunk of people working with UX on that side of the fence.Meanwhile in public sector land there’s a parallel universe forming where some really good, “genuine” UX going on but at the same time some serious disasters. Many of the techniques proven and applied in e-commerce don’t get a look-in.Public sector employees (and agencies providing digital services) move from one public sector job or assignment to another. E-commerce requires experience of e-commerce. Public sector requires experience of the public sector. An iron curtain comes into the picture.So now there’s two parallel linear scales in my draft-post.While this is going on the B2B and corporate world is ploughing on pretty much as it always has. It’s getting inspired and enthusiastic about what’s going on over in e-commerce land, but the budget and the interest from the organisation isn’t really there. The poor UX-er in this organisation has to abandon their career of producing digital delights and instead embark on a 5-year mission to foster organisational change and make their company “get it”. Good luck!So I add a third line.At this point I realise that NGOs and charities are missing. The ones I’ve stumbled upon have a strange mix of e-commerce and public sector behaviour. This is not surprising really considering they are not profit-making organisations, but rely on securing funding and obtaining members for their financial survival.Before I get chance to add a fourth line for NGOs I revisit another draft I’ve had kicking about for years — UX is for big business.If we throw out the sector-based thinking and look instead a the size of organisations, maybe that gives us a better angle to understand the UX divide from?Most companies in the world aren’t big. In fact over 99% of companies are not big. Most people don’t work for large companies. Smaller organisations are the ones with very limited budgets and time, A UX-team of one, or perhaps 0.05. Even a small e-commerce company is going to struggle to have the resources to keep their digital machine running in tip-top condition.So now I’ve got an extra dimension to my four linear scales. I’m not sure this is even possible to sketch in any useful way any more. It’s basically a random collection of made-up lines.Well, that was a fun illustration but it’s largely fun and not so much fact.Perhaps after all my “UX Divide itch” was actually just a manifest of UX maturity? So I revisited some of the various UX maturity models and writing that has been published over time.All of our sectors follow the maturity model, although they all have their own “curve” which guides the rate at which they are maturing. If e-commerce is the one with the steepest curve, it means it is pulling away from the others.I think my divide is starting to fall into place. Organisations sit on different points on the maturity curve. They also have different curves according to business or organisation type. The feeling I have of a UX divide is the difference between the curves at a maturity point.There is still one issue. One thing with the various maturity models is that they all start at the larger end of the organisational scale with phrases such as “UX programs”, “IT departments”, “fully embedded in the organisation”. Our poor old SMEs, especially the small ones, don’t follow the same maturity model.Here I think we see the pull of our sister galaxy, Smaller companies are closer to their customers, they find it easier to follow the vision of Whether they are a local bakery or a niche web-boutique, they can hop rapidly between different levels of UX maturity depending on their engagement and understanding of the tools at their disposal.One day level 6, another level 2.So how do we add small business to the big picture? We tuck them in close by. Digital is important to them, or it’s not. They get it, or they don’t. They look to the internet and their peers for self-help articles and advice. There is no team or department there’s just them.Sometimes a small company becomes a larger company and with After all this, have I got an answer to my “problem”? Yeah, kind of. UX is divided. In the same way as There’s an ethical divide as well within UX which is more complex than just whether you design “dark patterns” or work with pay-day loans. Even though the organisations we work with can differ enormously, our individual ethical frameworks differ too. There’s never going to be As long as we “get it”, maintain our empathy, and continue to be facilitators of change, the UX divide of haves and have-nots doesn’t matter.I’ll leave you with a quote from UX. Usability. Web management. Optimisation. Analytics. 

Over the past few years as a Product Manager, I’ve run into several instances where I regretted a UX decision just before shipping. When you’re working out of Google Docs, Balsamiq, and Photoshop, it’s difficult to get a ‘feel’ for the final product until the engineers actually create it — thus, it’s hard to be confident about some UX decisions early on. There are obviously ways to alleviate these issues, such as through prototyping software and studying similar products. But at the end of the day, they may not be enough. I recently learned that even the best PM can’t make all the right calls from the start. The best PMs embrace and plan for these issues so that they’re not thrown off later.Let’s say I’m designing a car. This is a low end luxury car, so keeping costs low is important, but I want it to feel very good all around. The engineers come to me and ask, ‘what material are we using for the interior accent trim?’Well uh…we could go with leather…or texturized rubber. It’s kind of hard to tell. The mockups kind of look the same. It’s nice to touch the small square samples, but it’s hard to imagine the final experience from these squares. I guess we need a decision…okay…fine…let’s go with texturized rubber.STOP.In your product spec, create a table of decisions that you’ve had to make where changes may be required after the product is built. Add this particular decision, and keep going. As you keep coming across UX decisions where your gut is queasy trying to decide, add to this table. As you work with the engineers to plan out the project, add stories or work items to account for changes to about 1/3 of these decisions. You should be pressured to make the right decision from the get-go, but you will have some time to make changes later on.Now, instead of getting that sinking feeling of being wrong just before shipping, you should be ready for design changes when picking a ship date. If you have a hard deadline, you can at least do creative things like add another engineer to the project, or cut features. This method will hopefully eliminate those sinking feelings you get when an engineer has followed your spec, but you realize that — oops — you were wrong!Have other ways to account for last minute changes? Add a comment, or tweet to me at Never mind the llamas, just grab the elephants. PM at Imgur. Formerly PM at Microsoft.

It’s been a big year for food delivery startups in India. Thirty-one startups have But the space is fiercely competitive, so a good topic of lunch conversation (while eating your just delivered food) is who will survive.Here’s how I look at it as a UX Designer:3. Value of efficiency: Given the immense friction in just getting around town, the young working population will pay for getting the basic things done quickly — ordering food, doing laundry, getting home. On-demand apps are here to save the day.In Bangalore it’s clear the on-demand food delivery startups are solving a real problem, so the difference is really in the “how.”Out of curiosity, I put three of the hottest food delivery apps — For a first-time user, the goal is to deliver an experience that gets the user to achieve his or her goal efficiently and smoothly. If successful, you’re setting yourself up for retaining the user. Here I looked for a clean, easy-to-use homepage that facilitates glanceability and scanability. Remember your user’s goal: She wants to eat ASAP.All three apps try to cram a lot into the homepage. Here’s an aggregate list of the content I have to process on just the homepage of these apps:When designing for mobile, it’s important to The design goal here is to select the most relevant information to display on the homepage. Here’s a quick and dirty test for figuring that out: ask 10–15 users what first comes to mind when they order food. Listen to their responses. Make sure the top 3–5 most commonly named items are on the homepage. Don’t be afraid to leave the rest out in favor of much-needed white space.For a first-time user experience, the edge goes to Here the user needs a smooth search and navigation experience to meet her goal, so the app should provide a logical information architecture:Here When the user’s goal isn’t quite as specific (read: she doesn’t know what she wants and wants the app to help), the dynamic Filter feature should guide the user through the search process. Here it’s important to consider again the information architecture, i.e., the categories to show the users and the hierarchy.In the hyper competitive food delivery app world, you’re dealing with ultimately fickle users who get bored with the same food and same apps. Case in point: A quick survey of 10 young startup employees in Bangalore revealed they use at least three food delivery apps in a given week. They’re also down to try a new one for the initial discounts and promo codes. Given these challenges with user retention, here’s two UX improvements I’d suggest for TinyOwl, Swiggy, and Zomato Order:Right now it’s still anyone’s game in the food delivery startup battlefield in India. Despite so many vying for market dominance, only a few will survive. Just this week, two startups, Daze and SpoonJoy, →Rocket boosting top startups as Asia RM for Reviews, journeys and analysis about using Indian websites, apps and services. Also thoughts and writings by Indian UXers/Design Thinkers.

My initial research focused on understanding the competitive online shopping landscape as well as grasping a comprehensive “big picture” understanding of NY Costume’s IA via the 100 product items provided by the client in advance.I also conducted multiple card sorting sessions (open and closed) asking participants to sort/group each of the client’s 100 product items as they saw fit. Key findings from these sessions helped me to recognize top main categories and identify smarter word choice, all of which informed the overall organization/content of my site map.The purpose of the sitemap (created in OmniGraffle) was to clearly demonstrate the website’s new IA structure and content strategy which would help users find information and complete tasks more efficiently.The foundational research in the three personas already provided by my clients gave me a clear picture of the user’s expectations and also focused my decisions surrounding feature prioritization.The sketching phase began with a rapid design studio session in order to create as much ideation as possible for both web and mobile site designs. Next, I transitioned my lo-fi sketches to higher fidelity digital wireframes using the program Sketch.After iterating my initial lo-fi sketch designs following class feedback, I created digital wireframes of each page in Sketch and set up an addition pin-up session for more feedback to spark further design iteration.Feedback from both pin-up sessions directly influenced design direction in my following wireframe iteration. My final user journey wireframes for both web and mobile (respectively) are illustrated below.Prototyping and performing usability tests is a terrific problem solving exercise because this is the stage where you can tangible discover whether or not your conceived design has legs! Can the user actually complete the given task? How did the user’s reaction differ from what you had expected? When in design-doubt, test it!UX Designer | Brooklyn, NY

The first thing I say to anyone interested in UX is go borrow a bunch of books from your friendly local library. Or, pull your e-reader out of retirement and put it to good use with some inexpensive digital copies.I always start with books because there are so many different areas of focus within UX, and even many fields of expertise on the fringe of it. It’s important to explore what interests you.There are a few books at the top of my list. These four fantastic introductions to UX will give you a well-rounded understanding of the many skills involved in UX design:There are also a whole bunch of UX books that I’ve learned a lot from. To name a few:After seeing my post, my friend Tim instantly recommended I also left off a couple of classics that really do deserve mention. The first is Finally, as a newer practitioner, you won’t be disappointed with Russ Unger and Carolyn Chandler’s These books are great resources for both beginners and seasoned pros, but I know I’m missing many that may have been formative for other UX pros in their careers. Beyond books, I highly recommend looking into blogs and articles: Additionally, start following thought leaders on Twitter — this is a great way to stay up to date on what the industry is talking about, writing about, or wrestling with. Some of my favorite industry folks to follow on twitter are:They’re all active and non-robotic in their posting, but you may find others you like too!Twin Cities native. UX Engineer 

Integrating User Experience Design (UX) into an Agile process is not as simple as combining peanut butter and chocolate for the perfect frosting. The relationship is more nuanced, a better metaphor would be a perfectly layered lasagna. Each “layer” will always retain some uniqueness — be it thinking in code or analyzing user behavior, creating a visual design or defining features for a product. This level of uniqueness means that all layers contain something special and powerful thus preventing complete integration. Yet, no matter which layer or discipline we reside in, we are all part of the same kitchen staff cooking that perfect lasagna together. The trick to a great meal is not limited to the skill of individual team members — the chef, sous chef and all of the kitchen staff — but every member being equipped with a complete understanding of the kitchen layout, the meal being created, and communicating effectively. When done correctly, the whole becomes greater than any individual part; great sauce doesn’t make a great lasagna, but all ingredients together, with the right pair of hands, will.Fortunately, for all participants in an Agile project, UX designers have a tendency to be user or customer-centric, whether we realize it or not. One of Agile’s core principles is about stepping out of the office and presenting work in front of a customer for validation. It’s not hard for UX-ers to feel at home gaining that validation and interaction with users. Most designers crave the research and change resulting from a sit down with users in order to understand their pain points, behaviors, desires and gaps where they’d like a product or service to improve. Developers and core team members are beginning to understand how invaluable this direct contact truly is. Perhaps the correct comparison here would be inviting guests to enjoy our lasagna with us through every step, from preheating to plating.The Agile Process arose due to problems in the Waterfall system of developing large scale documentation, like functional requirements bibles. These documents — tomes, really — would be incredibly detailed and great for building a system — but were often obsolete. The issue here was that the actual project and requirements for a system would change right from the beginning, when the functional requirements were being built. Additionally, the technical team — devs, QA and folks set to make it all work — may not have been involved in creating those documents and by the time they’d receive it, little of the functional req’s would assist them. At its core, building products is about the transition from theory and text into practical, visual solutions — and that means creating more visual forms of documentation, such as Agile’s emphasis on prototyping. That’s where UX has excelled, and always will — we bring the theory into practical via the visual. We turn the pages of a recipe book to the right page, and bring it to life.The era of Agile as an established, mature methodology is here, along with some concern and push back. Ironically, much of these negative views resulted from the rush to build before having a proper plan in place. An idea that Agile strongly advocates for, while many other methodologies focus elsewhere. There is some misinterpretation that Agile means “no documentation”. Here, we need to be careful that the pendulum hasn’t swung the other way — from far too much initial documentation and design, to not enough of either, which would create a rush to code. There is a concept for developers known as “code as documentation” which is nice in theory but Agile pushes for a layer on the bottom of our lasagna, the foundation, to be explored first. Better to look into the right path, confirm content, and design approaches before any level of build occurs. This is a layer where UX adds value by sorting through the various paths available and presenting them.What can documentation outside of code look like? Agile promotes the use of tools such as wireframes and prototypes to ensure that we are moving in the right direction before committing to code, which could require later rework. This added layer, documentation, ensures that all of our cooks know the layout of the kitchen and what is being cooked before a single ingredient is cut. Tools, like prototyping, simulate enough of the experience for users that we can begin product testing — and validation. Even if this occurs in a rougher fidelity, the results allow us to confirm our path — a task harder to complete with more transactional Web applications where data visualization are part of the project. Thanks to integrated tools, such as There are issues around how to best integrate UX and Agile — on a day to day level, it can be tricky to rapidly iterate and integrate both within the same project, as well as the other disciplines of product marketing, stakeholders and team members. Smart teams sit down together to identify the who, what, why, how and when of every project. An agreement must be achieved beforehand on the standards and fidelity needed in UX deliverables and where it fits into the development sprint. The goal here is to ensure that everyone receives what they need before the process begins thus preventing the need to run back to the store for additional ingredients once the kitchen has been opened. Like any methodology, tool or recipe, integrating UX into Agile takes practice, commitment, infrastructure and shared understanding to make it all work. Like every great meal, it requires planning and a vision of what we want to create for our customers before they even set foot inside the restaurant. The products and services we create may not always be as memorable and emotionally satisfying as our favorite lasagna, latte, creme brûlée or other tasty treat, but with the right planning — great products and services can happen — thanks to the tasty mix of Agile and UX. Origionaly published by Rachel Murray on We are New York based Agile Mobile/Web Consultants. We come to you.

I’m looking for serious, candy dripping talent that can produce wireframes, design guidelines and UI for this startup project. You can take a user story overview and user profiles and run with it.You live for clean design and crazy good usability. You swear by the fact that fantastic design makes or breaks a product, even at the concept stage. You love great ideas, you like entrepreneurs that are excellent to others and taking credit for a sexy, press inspiring piece of work wouldn’t be too terrible either.I’m not going to bore you with the skills you should have. You know the skills you should have and I can’t imagine you’ll leave them in the drawer when we get started.We can break the project out into several steps with three screens to start to expand the validation and beta signup process while we work on the wireframes and remaining UI.While this is a B2B project, its pretty cool and while AI is already overused as a term, we can have some fun with it here.About me: Serial entrepreneur, 6 startups, 4 exits, excellent to others, likes good people and great wine.Email: Cheers!

Conceptualizing a great innovative experience and strategy alone is not enough to convey it to your team or clients. Experience Design also requires some knowledge of specific tools to craft high-quality documentation, to further help visualize such ideation as blueprints for your digital product.This Field Note sheds some light on the tools-of-the-trade by providing an objective comparison of 17 industry standard tools for UX (Don’t forget to download the PDF with specific feature comparisons of all 17 tools to help inform making your decision when choosing your next UX tool. Additionally I hope this encourages the tool creators to also improve their software with specific features that UX design processes need.Each of the 17 tools chosen were compared against their potential for the most common needs of a great tool for UX design.The result was expected, however there were some solutions to consider. As the lead, for my team’s needs, I presented the following recommendations to democratize the choices and foster collective interest. After all, if you enjoy the tools you use, it shows in your product. The findings fell into the following categories:These desktop tools came very close, and in this order due to their non-browser based creation, and other tool set features. See If flexibility is your most important need, the following tools by themselves, or in combination, help achieve it based on your processes. See See Comparison Chart with pros and cons [There is no one tool that can “rule them all.” However there ares some great contenders and solutions. Having the proper tools gives you the freedom to create, allowing for unhindered, medium imposed limitations, when designing for innovation. I hope my journey to find the perfect tool, and combinations, helps inform your choices — if you are seeking it. I will continue to evolve this document as new tools are put to the test — time permitting of course.As a follow-up to this article, eventually, I will be writing another on how I take one of my projects through some of these tools. It will shed more light on why flexibility is important for better communication of your digital product’s blueprint.Conceptualizing  crafting engaging digital experiences are my passion. Visit IxDeology.com for more.Processes, discoveries  theories on experience design for engaging storytelling. Visit IxDeology.com for more.

Using whiteboards during a UX interview is very common. Whiteboards are an important medium for the design process because it allows designers to communicate ideas with stakeholders, or users, in a very collaborative way. The team can sketch together, erase, and sketch again quickly while walking through ideas. A strong understanding of the purpose of a whiteboard exercise will help a candidate better demonstrate his/her competencies and qualifications during an interview.Typically a whiteboard challenge is not for evaluating how quickly a candidate can solve a problem. There is no right or wrong answer and therefore interviewers usually want to see how a candidate thinks on their feet. For example, is the candidate able to engage in collaborative problem solving with the team? Your interviewers are attempting to discern your ability to collaborate with future team members. Try and imagine a role play, where the interviewee is interacting with product managers, developers, user researchers and other potential extended team members. These team members can provide instructions as to what customers want, what technical limitations the designer has, and what research results are available.Below are some key strategies that can help further improve a candidate’s white board interview.When you are given a challenge, don’t hurry and think of a solution or answer. Ask questions to clarify the details of the challenge first. Don’t make any assumptions, because your assumptions may be completely contrary to the team’s product strategy. I am not implying that a candidate should not be creative. On the contrary, creativity is crucial as a designer. You must communicate your thought process clearly so that your team can understand your design standpoint. This ensures that everyone is on the same page.You can start your design process after clarifying the problem. It’s ok if you need to think quietly and independently for a little while, but don’t take longer than 2 to 3 minutes. Thinking out loud allows your interviewers to evaluate your thought-process, and guide you if you are on a wrong track.Don’t be afraid to seek for help from your interviewers or to ask, “What do you think?” You are certainly going to encounter various problems in real work setting. And you will need the support of your team to overcome challenges. Think of your interviewers as future coworkers and members of your team. Asking for suggestions or advice is recommended and you can learn a little bit about their work styles in the process.The worst thing you can do during a whiteboard exercise is to come up with an idea and try hard to sell it. This is not a product pitch, therefore your goal is not to convince someone to buy it. A good design requires a lot of fast iterations. Listen to the critiques and suggestions of your interviewers and quickly find out what works and what doesn’t work. Iterate your design and take action to turn it into something that everyone in the room can agree on. Don’t hesitate to erase anything on the board, but it’s always a good practice to ask your interviewers if it’s okay, just in case they haven’t seen it or been able to take it down.I would recommend coming up with a high level information architecture before diving into the interaction details. Be aware of time constraints because a whiteboarding session usually only lasts an hour or 30 minutes. Therefore the most efficient process is to define an IA and ask your interviewers to pick a feature for further interaction design. Remember your interviewers are acting as the product managers in this exercise, so they will help you prioritize the features to design. From time to time, confirm with them if you’re heading in the right direction.Usually, during the UX design process, we explore multiple solutions for a given problem. We iterate toward our final recommended approach based upon results from user research, usability testing and A/B testing. However, an onsite interview whiteboard challenge comes with an implicit time limit. It’s better to dive deeply into one design solution rather than to split your time. Your interviewers will appreciate if you provide a lot of ideas, but be sure to throw out bad ideas quickly so you can focus on the right solution.A lot of candidates might not pay attention to one critical element: draw clearly. When I recently helped our UX team with interviews I witnessed candidates draw hastily and messily on the board. They might have been nervous or worried about time, but my suggestion is not to rush. Scribbling is not going to save you time. Clear whiteboard writing not only gives your interviewers a good impression, but also helps you organize your thoughts. And unlike the other six tips that I mentioned above, which might need some real work experience, drawing clearly only requires a little practice. Start whiteboarding whenever you can. Practice drawing straight lines, boxes, circles, to buttons, links and pages.Talking through your thought process gives your interviewers a window into how you think. Ask questions and get suggestions from interviewers. This ensures that you are heading in the right direction. Discuss and iterate your design with interviewers. This allows both of you to see what your future collaboration would be like.Product designer who is obsessed with handcrafting, world traveling , yoga, photography, food, arts, music, tech. Follow me on Finding a buried UX design treasure is like hunting for truffles. The process is challenging and time consuming, but the reward is precious and often worth sharing.

In Buddhism, we are told that we need to stop running for happiness and live in the present moment. We also are taught to live a life of truth. Good user experience design forces people to ask the right questions to cut through the culture and perceptions of the people and get to the truth. The truth about their customers, stakeholders and themselves. We need to help people stop running away from the hard questions, the so called “pink elephant” in the room, and help them at least give the elephant a peanut.Getting to the truth with stakeholders may expose things about the company or it’s culture that will make people feel uncomfortable. But without understanding these deeper problems, it may be hard to create a great experience for users. Just as when you try to face yourself, you will use the excuses and habitual thoughts to keep you from the truth. You need to either meditate or have someone on the outside tell you like it is, and you need to be open to it, knowing that it will help you. This is how you should treat your stakeholders, you both need each other. You both want to create a great product and maintain the relationships you have now with the company. The stakeholders know the true culture of the company and where the product needs improvement but maybe the culture did not allow them to speak up or maybe they were in line for a promotion and did not want to stir things up.Working with stakeholders, we can take the information privately and do something about it.Realizing this strong connection between helping others and helping yourself can help you realize empathy for these people. You can be that good friend who does not sugarcoat things but will hold your hand when he tells you that you are messing up and why.At some level, you can begin to replace optimism or pessimism with conviction. Facing these big questions means we have more purpose because you have at least thought about what lies beyond your current project. When you are working on a hard project, you can always refer to the purpose of the project as a motivator (if it means something to you) but if you are too scared to look at what you are building in the long run, you won’t be that motivated.There you have it. Not only does the UX process apply to work but to life. Simply replace “the user” with life:So be present when you talk with your stakeholders, don’t run from the big questions. I find I have been doing this all along for myself, so it is time to reapply this and make others happy through better products.Developer turned UX. Like to ask big questions. Love traveling, coffee and great food.

Neredeyse herkesin UX designer olduğunu iddia ettiği tasarım dünyasında, gerçekten herkes UX designer mı? Evet, tasarım yapan herkes UX designer.- Tasarım okudum. UX designer’ım.- Harika. Peki UI design’ı da sen mi yapıyorsun?- Nasıl yani? E tabii ki, başka ne yapacaktım ki?- Hmm… Kullanıcının deneyimini tasarlamak için UI dışında çalışmalar yapıyor musun?- Sonuçta kullanıcılar için en iyisini düşünerek UI tasarlıyorum. Böylece en iyi deneyimi sunuyorum.- Kullanıcının ürünle ilişkili şeylerle nasıl etkileşime geçtiğini gözlemlemeden, o kişiyle konuşmadan, görüşmeden, o kişinin gerçek ihtiyacını nasıl belirliyorsun peki?- Çok basit. Kendimi o insanın yerine koyuyorum. Mesela diyelim ki esnaf için bir uygulama tasarlanacak. Esnafmışım gibi düşünüyorum. Senelerdir bu işi yapıyorum, o kadar da tanıyalım insanları di mi?- Peki izlediğin bu yöntemle kullanıcı ihtiyaçlarının yalnızca su yüzünde kalanlarını öngörebileceğini, hatta bazılarını da yanlış öngörüp kullanıcıyı hiç kazanamadan kaybedebileceğini biliyor muydun?- Nasıl yani?- Şöyle:Ülkemizde UX designer’ım diyen çoğu kişi tasarımlarını varsayımlar üzerine inşaa ediyor, hatta çoğu zaman bu varsayımların farkında bile olmadan tasarıma gömülüyor. Oysa ki UX tasarımı dediğimiz şey arayüz tasarımıyla değil, problemi ve kullanıcıyı anlamayla başlar, arayüz tasarımı ise bu anlayışın görsel çözümü olarak ortaya çıkar.Özellikle bu işe büyük bütçeler ayıran büyük firmaların bir sürü projesi ölü doğarak potansiyel kullanıcıları tarafından ilgi görmez, bazen de onlara hiç ulaşamaz. Harcanan onca para, onca zaman, onca çaba ise çöpe gider. Proje ise hayattaki ilk ve tek görevi olarak çeyrek dilim sonunda üst yöneticilere sunulan başarısız bir iş olarak tarihin tozlu raflarında yerini alır. Peki sen? Sen tabii ki hala UX designer’sın. Bilinçli olsan da, olmasan da, deneyimi mahvetsen de, yüceltsen de ortada tasarladığın bir deneyim var. Kimse bunu inkar edemez. Peki şimdi sorarım sana, bu proje kendi kendini imha etmeden önce aşağıdakilerden hangilerini yaptın?1. Tasarlayacağın ürünün başarı kriterlerini ve hedef kitlesini (personasını) iş sahibi ile birlikte belirlediniz mi? Bu ürün neyi ve kimi hedefliyor?2. Birbirinden farklı kaç tane personan var belirlediniz mi? Kendi aralarında önceliklendirdiniz mi?3. Diyelim ki bu ürün ile hedeflediğin 3 farklı personan var. Bu grupların demografik ve psikografik (ihtiyaç, amaç, tutum, davranış) özelliklerini tanımak için neler yaptın? Bu kişilerle bire bir görüşme mi yaptın? Mevcut ürünler üzerinden kullanılabilirlik testi mi yaptın? Kitleyi topladın focus grup mu yaptın? Günlük mü tutturdun? Yoksa sadece gözlemledin mi?4. Sen yapmadıysan, kullanıcı ihtiyaçlarını netleştirip fonksiyonlara dönüştürmesi için bir UX araştırmacısıyla çalıştın mı?5. Bilgi mimarisi, wireframe, prototip, grafik arayüz tasarımı aşamalarında potansiyel kullanıcılarla kullanılabilirlik testi yaptın mı? Tasarımın beklediğin gibi sonuçlandı mı? Bulgulara göre isimlendirmeyi, bilgi mimarisini, wireframe’i düzenledin mi?Hayır mı? Elinde bu bilgiler olmadan deneyimi neye göre tasarladın peki? Üzgünüm ama sen kendi kafana göre tasarlamışsın. Kendi kafana göre yaptığın için de müşteri her an işine müdahale edip, o da kendi kafasına göre her gün başlığı bi’ tık büyütelim deme hakkını görmüş. Sen tasarımını kullanıcıların ihtiyaçlarıyla ilişkilendirseydin, “Ne senin ne benim kişisel zevklerimizin bir önemi yok, kullanıcının ihtiyaçlarının önemi var ve ancak bu şekilde başarıya ulaşabiliriz” deseydin, hangi müşteri ürününün başarısız olmasını ister ki? Gelen cevapları önceden duyduğum gibi şu anda da duyuyorum; “zaman yok, bütçe yok, şirket kültürü buna müsait değil, projeye bir de bunu dahil edersek işi alamayız”. Bu kültürü bizden başkası yaratmayacak, biz yaratacağız. UX is not UI.A psychologist working as a UX / Service Researcher from Istanbul.

For non-designers attributes of designs are colours, shapes, sketches, drawing, crafts, patterns etc. In short, its something that looks great visually. But UX is something that goes beyond this. It’s more about the impression left in users mind after interacting with the product. This impression can be positive, negative or neutral.“What is UX” is the question you get from parents, relatives, friends, non-designer colleagues etc. To explain them in context, I use to take their interaction with phone as an example but again the same perception of visual factor dominated over experiential factor. This phone example wasn’t working for me atleast so switched to a daily used non-technical product “Coin”. Narrating my typical conversation below that I have with any non-designers nowadays …Coin example has worked for me extremely well. In case any of you try it, please post your response below …UXer 

UX. You may be in trouble if you, ‘don’t need it’.First, let’s break down what UX means in life, not in the designers sketchbooks, but to us as people.My favourite thing about this is that there is a very simple strategy to really discovering for yourself what you want your UX to feel like, and it’s simple.I demonstrate things others don’t search to find. | Los Angeles, California.

The words we use are really important. As researchers, our choice of words can have a dramatic effect on the results of the research we conduct. The words, the order of the sentence, our tone of voice, accompanying body language, the pace of the questioning… they all have an effect on the participant, in fact, it’s impossible not to have an effect. Our aim is to minimise any potential negative effects that may bias our results and to encourage an open dialogue where people feel able to open up to us with their innermost thoughts, concerns and desires.Any researcher will tell you that this is incredibly difficult to perfect and we all go through a period when we’re starting out of letting a question slip out that we instantly know was leading. The researcher probably only received the prototype about 10 minutes before the first participant, has had extra questions/tasks given to them at the last minute, one person turn up late/cancel, the technology break on them, and on top of all this they have to be mindful of the impact of their interaction on the participant. It’s a lot to think about and the more there is to think about the greater risk there is of things slipping through.However, there is one very small change you can make that could give you more out of your research. It’s a little tricky to get used to as we naturally ask this question a specific way and changing it feels odd at first. However, it’s been proven to make a difference so it’s worth consideration.American conversation analysts John Heritage and Jeffrey Robinson examined the impact when doctors changed just one word in a question: “any” to “some.” The issue: Patients were frequently leaving appointments without voicing all of their concerns.Does this sound familiar to you researchers? Yes?It’s been shown that questions containing the word “any” typically receive negative responses. In Heritage and Robinson’s experiment, one group of doctors asked the “any” question (“Is there As UX researchers we always ask a question at the end of our research session regarding whether the user has So, how about replacing Owner of multi award-winning UX agency 

Виртуально присоединюсь к Сейчас в СКБ Контур работает 35 дизайнеров: проектировщиков интерфейсов, графических дизайнеров, иллюстраторов. А всего в компании 3500 человек и Дизайнеры и проектировщики в Контуре работают непосредственно в продуктовых командах: сидят плечом к плечу с разработчиками, тестировщиками, верстальщиками. Пока команды небольшие, 10–30, человек, самый эффективный способ коммуникаций — голосом :)Интерфейс и дизайн продуктов разрабатывается только внутри компании. Для дизайна рекламной продукции иногда обращаемся к подрядчикам, но это бывает очень редко.Тема стандартизации дизайна в нашей компании имеет долгую историю, но первый реальный шаг был предпринят осенью 2013 года, когда 7 ведущих дизайнеров вместе со своими аймаками выехали на базу отдыха и в течение 5 дней рисовали общие элементы интерфейсов. Это был самый крутой дизайн-спринт, в котором я участвовал: получилось переключиться с проектных задач, мы быстро договорились и придумали работающие решения.Сейчас, когда общие элементы дизайна интерфейсов внедрены во все проекты, перед нами стоит 2 новые задачи:Мы организовали что-то вроде комитета стандартизации среди дизайнеров — выбрали 5 человек, которые следят за гайдлайнами, и готовы отвечать на вопросы. Если дизайнер в проекте хочет использовать какой-то новый элемент дизайна, он должен прийти в «комитет» и рассказать о своей задаче и предлагаемом решении. Если всё ОК — новый дизайн добавляется в гайдлайн и теперь его могут использовать все проекты.Одновременно с этим у нас идет процесс разработки библиотек контролов на основе наших гайдлайнов. На данный момент их уже две, а может быть станет больше. Главное, чтобы для любой технологии, используемой в компании, была подходящая библиотека стандартных элементов. Задача дизайнеров следить чтобы все реализации как можно точнее соответствовали гайдлайнам.Я хочу чтобы наши гайдлайны были публичные, и думаю, что в перспективе 1 года, это произойдет. Кстати, руководство по использованию фирменного стиля СКБ Контур, уже выложено в общий доступ — Вероятно, где-то рядом появится и библиотека наших контролов, и принципы построения интерфейсов контуровских продуктов.Когда мы начинали работать над общим дизайном наших продуктов, мы определили следующие цели:1. Продукты Контура должны быть похожи друг на друга, и должны узнаваться как контуровские.2. Переходя между нашими продуктами пользователь должен быстро осваиваться и быстро находить стандартные элементы интерфейса: навигацию, настройки, помощь и пр.3. В дизайне должно остаться место для индивидуальности продукта.Мы стремимся чтобы каждый наш клиент пользовался как можно большим количеством наших сервисов, тем не менее аудитории продуктов заметно отличаются, а значит и интерфейс у них может быть разным. И наши гайдлайны учитывают это. Конечно, теперь дизайнер лишен удовольствия нарисовать свои собcтвенные кнопочки для проекта, зато у него стало больше времени для по-настоящему важных для пользователя задач.Можно сказать, что работу дизайнера принимает сама продуктовая команда. Каждый может высказать свое мнение, и оно будет услышано. Конечно, последнее слово за менеджером проекта, который, впрочем, сидит в этой же комнате за соседним столом. Соответственно, у нас нет проблемы оторванности топ-менеджмента от вопросов дизайна — все дизайнерские решения принимаются с непосредственным участием самого дизайнера.Надеюсь, было интересно :)СКБ Контур. Механический турок. Проектировщик в Диадоке. Руководитель отдела проектирования интерфейсов.

It took quite a journey to land me here, in my early stages as a UX designer. I graduated from Penn State with a Communications degree in 2010. I started college at a fairly young age of 16 years old and graduated at the age of 20. I sped through my schooling, and when I was close to completing my undergraduate degree, I was convinced that I would only pick up the pace from there. I wanted to defy the conventions and be one of the youngest people around with a PhD. But of course, life doesn’t always go according to plan.My first job out of college was with Penn State, as a regional recruiter and admission counselor. I’d go on to counsel thousands of young high school students about their college selection process. More importantly, I’d try to match up these students with a career path that would be fruitful for them. It was very important to me, professionally and personally, that I helped them to align their talents with an industry they’d eventually love.College is not just a place you go to in order to obtain a degree. Rather, it’s four of the most impactful years of your life. It’s where you will create yourself and your destiny. You’ll be forged by this institution and become a professional that will change the landscape of an industry. Oh, and you’re going to meet interesting people and have a whole lot of fun in the process. Looking back now, I realize how much I referenced the word “experience” in my recruitment presentations, print pieces, mass emails and messaging that I’ve shared with teenagers from all over the country.Maybe it was my youth that inspired this. The young students I recruited weren’t going to fully understand the experience unless I used a medium where this messaging was easier for them to digest. I started to rely on social media, creating inspiring videos and graphics, and redesigning university web pages to support my recruitment initiatives. All the while, I took the feedback and advice from current students at my university that worked for me as tour guides. They understood my audience the best.As I continued my career in college admissions, I always knew that I would eventually go back to school. I didn’t know what I wanted to pursue, and for years no post-undergraduate program appealed to me. It was frustrating that I had spent so much time identifying and improving my unique set of skills, but no formal graduate program would be able to encompass this. I could have forced myself into a program that would have allowed me to get a degree, but I knew I would be going against my nature. More importantly, I would not be following the advice that I shared with all of the students I’ve recruited throughout my career.Within 2 months of first hearing the words “User Experience Design,” I applied and was accepted into the program.Although I had started to teach myself about the industry, it wasn’t until after I was enrolled that I experienced something that made everything about UX sink in for me.I went to a conference for work, and the guest speaker happened to be Apple co-founder, Steve Wozniak.During his address to the conference attendees, “Woz” mentioned that years after he had been creating, programming, and building advances in technology, he decided that he wanted to go back to school for psychology. He was fascinated by the human brain. He wanted to get to the root of reasons why humans make their decisions, the ways that culture and perceptions impact their actions and consumer behaviors. By combining this knowledge with his technical skill, he would be able to create technology that was completely in tune with human behavior.He told the crowd that user experience design is the reason why you are able to take an Apple iPhone out of a box and innately understand how to use it without ever picking up a book of instructions. Behind this product, is ingenious UX design.After hearing this, the degrees and the title of PhD no longer motivated me. I simply want to create. I want to join the pioneers that are developing technologies that are in complete alignment with the needs and desires of the humans they are created for.-RahelUX Designer | Communication Specialist | Social Media StrategistMaster’s students at Philadelphia University writing about UX and becoming a UX professional.

You’ve just got to start doing UX to get into UX. You’re not going to be awesome at first, but you’re going to get things done.Do you currently work somewhere where UX doesn’t exist? Make it happen! Start wearing that hat. Even if you’re not building websites, find a way to start affecting the user experience of what you are doing. The important part here is that you By “doing the work” I mean don’t just skip to the fun part. Do more research (or a bigger variety of research) than you think you need to. Come up with more than one concept. Compare those concepts. Try different methods of validating your work. When you have more exposure to a variety of ways to get the job done, you’ll know which one is the RIGHT one to use later on. You may have good instincts, but if you’re a beginner, you’ve got to go through the hard work of building up your experience and your toolbox.Prepare an infographic of your research findings. Don’t just open Omnigraffle or Sketch and start wireframing — start by sketching and whiteboarding first. Document usability test results and then show your work again, like how you pivoted or made changes. Find ways to hang on to artifacts of your work, even if it’s just taking a photo of a whiteboard before you erase it.When you can show your work, you become incredibly valuable. Showing your work convinces hiring managers that you have a process, that you know what you’re doing. It convinces clients that your recommendation is the right way to go. It doesn’t have to be overwrought, but always consider how you will prove to someone that you did this work. For me, sometimes this means organizing folders on my iPad so I can move through them swiftly in a meeting. For example, I’ll find artifacts from every stage of a project: a test script, a photo of me and my team doing cafeteria-style usability testing, a sketch on a napkin, a doodle in the Paper app, a pdf of a wireframe, a slide from usability test results, etc. I put all of these things in one folder so I can talk about my process with a stakeholder or a hiring manager.Do you currently work somewhere where UX exists, but you’re not really connected to it? Start making those connections. In my experience, in-house UX teams love it when other areas of the company reach out. Many people I know got into UX by working alongside UXers to begin with, from business analysts to graphic designers, from technical writers to developers. If you love the UX side of things, don’t be afraid to let it show and ask questions!You don’t have to give up your current work, either. There are so many ways to be a UXer. Some product managers also lead experience work on their products. Or you could be like our Senior Experience Developer, Evan, who incorporates his UX skillset into his work as a front-end developer.Are you in a place where you see school as your next step? You have so many options! As an undergrad, know that you can fit a future UX career into a variety of fields of study. It’s really common to see folks with fine art or psychology degrees blossom into UXers. If you’re looking at a Masters program, Human-Computer Interaction and Information Science degrees have long been a standard. UX Mastery has Interested in non-traditional education, bootcamps or apprenticeships? Lucky you — this is finally becoming an awesome reality for future UXers, most notably through Twin Cities native. UX Engineer 

I would like to introduce a new UX design approach: The design philosophy inside Object-Oriented UX is mobile-first, content-first and object-first. It put object design before procedural action design, and think about the entire system in line with real-world objects in users’ mental model, not digital-world actions (search, filter, compare and check out). Action design comes after defining the objects, as opposed to the traditional action-first process that jumps straight into flows, interactions and features.From my perspective,Here are four steps that mentioned in the article to map system goals to objects.The result from user research is usually a list of goals that users hope to accomplish in the system. We can highlight nouns inside the goals and extract object from nouns tactfully.After having a list of objects, it is time for us to add detailed content to each object, which contains core content as well as metadata which can be used to filter/sort the object.Now each object has its content and come alive. This step is to find inner relationship between each object in order to understanding how this object is connected with its sibling object.This step is to reorder the list under each object, from most to least important.It is not something completely new in the UX design approach, but can be a great thing added into the entire process. We can use it as a framework to keep the conversation with clients, stakeholders and internal design team.

In designing our parental services I often think about the user experience I provide to my children. Unlike many start-ups the overall health of the network matters more than the individual.Our user experience is family driven.All users agree to a non-revokable license of “I own your ass, with all my heart, for time eternal.” The ToS are pretty strict here.As a network administrator I reserve the right to alter the Terms of Service without notice. We want our users to grow and we will provide a sense of agency across the network but we reserve the right to revoke or change any condition of the system at any time.Take electronics, for example. I wish I could say I have and enforce lofty standards. We try to say no electronics when you wake up. Another common rule is an equal amount of educational play or board games before electronics. Admins may also enforce the call for social electronics such as the Wii versus tablets.Yet at other times we need to enforce the STFU protocol in order to complete parental duties. At these moments, which can happen at any time, the rules around electronics maybe altered.All activities in the system have to be adaptable to the needs of individual users.This causes the resizing of features and tools across the network.As the admin of three male users varying in both height and age we have to constantly adjust our system to ensure everyone stays happy.This usually means all user engagement sessions have to be inclusive. Accessibility is the heart of UX.Times do arise when system admins may want to engage with a specific user. This is encouraged but should be taken under caution. Alternative spaces should be provided for other users or a strict NDA should be agreed upon between the system admin and a particular user.There are specific bottlenecks in the system that must be dealt with in order to ensure a pleasant user experience. In order to maintain overall network health we often demand all traffic be treated the same.There are many places in the house where users are willing to compete for a better position in the stack.To combat this natural tendency among our users we have designated spaces where games, racing, or passing are strictly forbidden.The health of the system matters more than the happiness or competitive drive of any one particular user.Users, in order to have a happy experience benefit from clearly defined roles in the most public of forums.We strive for a democracy by design. We want our users to arrive at the choices that best serve the network.We do allow some choice in determining roles. Such as a unique UI for toothbrushes.We even allow our users to connect to other networks, and through our very Open API they can bring in pop-culture elements.Every boy needs a hero. Our mass culture is no different than those in the past. Diego shares much in common with Thor.While other sysadmins may balk at the commercialization of childhood we posit it comes down to picking your battles.The bathroom, like other common forums in the system is already a frontline of frustration. Yes users can pick a commercial toothbrush but once your role is assigned you must stick to it.In fact limiting choice in public forums improves the UX of parenting. A common mistake we learned early on: offering choice leads to conflicts and down time. When options were baked into the UI we often had to reconfigure our servers in order to complete a user interaction…or worse. Founders spending valuable time settling disputes among users.For example the small issue of purchasing cups of different colors can lead to great tension among users. They will constantly cycle through the files until they find the color of choice. Furthermore the users decision may change based on the influence of another user. Sometimes users will troll each other and demand they have different colors. Other times they complain to admins that the colors do not match.Limit choices in spaces where all the users gather.There has to be room in your heart for every user. They are each unique and bring a different persona and will require their own pathway through the system.As admins of the network we often find we need to offer opportunities of mass storage and allow all the users to gather. This often occurs at odd hours of the night.You can see a sudden spike of traffic in the wee hours of the evening and a place designed for two users. This leads to congestions, specifically for the admins. They get overcrowded by your users. Embrace this. Plan for mass storage.Not every network has the space or means for a king size bed but a group hug or a family walk provides unlimited space. Love isn’t physical. Its an energy, a synaptic bond cutting across dimensions, Mordor, and where ever that kid in Never Ending Story flew off too.I am a researcher and teacher educator at Southern Connecticut State University. Focus on literacy and technology.

It is one of the first questions you ask yourself when you get started.There are Or I could give you an As you might have guessed I will go for the last approach.Seeing your portfolio as a place to build a network of followers helps you to identify what to include in your portfolio. Let’s list them out.You can have amazing projects, a great design or even millions of visitors. It only pays off if visitors can connect with you. That’s why first and foremost, your portfolio should be a place where people can connect with you. A digital business card.By enabling people to connect with you, you convert visitors into followers. Followers engage with you. This engagement can come in many forms. A tweet, a mail or an interview request. Even another portfolio visit is some kind of engagement. You need followers because they give you opportunities in your career.The most important page on your portfolio is yourMake sure your contact page is complete. Some visitors like to connect through email, others might follow you on twitter. More than anything, your portfolio is about you. Your uniqueness is the most valuable value proposition you have. Everything starts with an Additionally, It goes without saying that your online portfolio is a great platform to demonstrate your skills.How do you demonstrate your skills?You don’t demonstrate your skills by Instead of In general, you don’t demonstrate your skills showing Most visitors are not interested in your projects. They don’t care about whether you built a weather app or a music dashboard. They look at these projects to judge how skilled you are. That’s why you should shift your focus from showing the destination to showing the journey.If you demonstrate your skills well, You should demonstrate your skills in detailed Case Studies enable you to go in depth. This is what you need to do to demonstrate your skills. Your level of depth reveals your skills and your potential.Interaction Design Helping people create a more effective online portfolio.

Biz SHERPA’da, genel geçer kabullerin tam aksine, kullanıcı deneyimi yaratımı süreçlerinin en başından itibaren yazılım geliştiricilerin masada bizlerle yan yana olması gerektiğine inanıyoruz. Bu yazı da bu inancın nedenleriyle ilgili…İşte, bizi bizden alan “bekleme” süreci bu soruyla baş gösterip, aşağıdaki varsayımlarla bizi usul usul, içten içten kemirmeye başlıyor:Peki, siz sanıyor musunuz ki proje takımımızda bizlerle birlikte çalışan yazılımcıların içleri rahat?UX Designer rolündekilerin, kullanıcı deneyimi tasarım süreçlerindeki eskizlerini low-fi veya mid-fi wireframe’lerle proje sahibi ve diğer paydaşlarına aktarmaları esnasında ne yazık ki en tehlikeli virajlar “işini aşırı beğenme/sahiplenme” ve “iteratif tasarıma şüpheyle yaklaşma”da dönülüyor. Olur da ekip içi iletişim “Arkadaşlar, bu (wireframe çizimlerini kast ederek) benim işim. Herkes kendi uzmanlığı dahilindeki alanlar hakkında görüş bildirsin” yönünde seyrediyorsa, sonunda ortaya çıkan “wireframe” değil, “my”frame oluveriyor. Peki aslında nasıl olmalı?Mart 2015’te yine SHERPA Blog’da “Nietzsche’nin dediği gibi “Bu dahil olmak üzere, tüm genellemeler yanlıştır.” ancak UX’i wireframe ile kısıtlamak ve her yazılımcının aynı bilgi seviyesinde ve çözümleme yeteneğinde olduğunu düşünmek de o kadar yanlıştır. Eğer ki kullanıcı deneyimi yaratımı sürecinize yazılımcıları da alarak başlamayı tercih ediyorsanız, bu yolda çok fazla işinize yarayacak bir set öneriyi sizlerle paylaşmak isterim:Yukarıdaki taktikleri harfiyen uygulayan, ekibin projenin başından sonuna “bir arada” ve “bir kafada” çalışmasını arzulayan proje yöneticilerinin en sık şikayet ettikleri konu da bu: çıktıların içselleştirilmemesi. Bu durum ne yazık ki yazılımcılar ekseninde biraz fazla tekrarlanıyor. (Bu da doğru.) Peki o kadar emeğe yazık değil mi? Farklı bir açıdan yaklaşırsak, “bu şekilde çalışmayı tercih etmeyen/sevmeyen yazılımcı ile çalışmaya çalışmak” bir efor kaybı yaratmıyor mu? Üretilen çıktıların tüm ekip tarafından içselleştirilmemesinin bir kayıp yarattığı kadar ekip içerisinde motivasyon ve inanç kaybına yol açtığı aşikar. Bu durumun ikili çatışmaları tetiklediği de sıkça gözlemlenen bir sonuç. Tercihlerimiz, tek şeritli yolun ortasında fil gibi kaya varken, aracı şarampole yuvarlama riskini göze alarak yandan geçmeye çalışmak mı yoksa “Bu sefer kesin aşağıya indireceğim” diyerek tam gaz o kayaya doğru aracı sürmek mi olmalı? Bence ikisi de değil.Yine SHERPA Blog için yazdığım “Aradığınız yanıtları Agile UX’te bulacaksınız.Full time Family Man, Part Time Entrepreneur, IOS Patient. Founder of DAM Startup Studio. Bir tasarım stüdyosunun notları

One day in the office, we were presented with a small task: Build a form which allows users to add a contact’s details to our product.This form needed to be quick, as the contacts weren’t paying customers (yet) and our users didn’t want to waste their time with no guaranteed return on their investment.Sadly, the contact’s name and number alone weren’t sufficient. Our users were required to capture an address — for technical and legal reasons.As you may know, addresses aren’t quick nor easy to enter. They have multiple fields, with relatively strict requirements and validations — both at a technical, logical and legal level.We needed to make our address form as simple and easy as possible so that our users could get their contact’s details into the system and get back to working on getting work out of them.Thankfully, some of the bright people over at Google have already experienced this problem, and designed a great solution for us to leverage.With Reality then reared its ugly head, bringing to light a small problem. That problem: Majority of our user’s clients were businesses — businesses located in large office complexes, with complex addresses (units, floors, suites etc).Google’s auto-complete address form doesn’t provide any unit, floor or suite data. Which meant Google couldn’t help our users enter these addresses. When our users typed any unit/floor/suite information, the system fell flat on its face. It couldn’t help.Luckily, we were provided a scape-goat. You see, here in New Zealand and Australia (our product’s only operating market) we format our addresses by starting with the most specific piece of information, working our way toward the least specific. This gave us a great little workaround, providing our users with all of the benefits of Google’s auto-complete address form whilst retaining complete flexibility for unit/floor/suite details:By using two separate fields, our users are able to enter their contact’s most specific address details (if required) and then enter their street address without disrupting the system.We then format the output appropriate to what the user has entered:Lead Designer at Sharing what I have learned so far.

A lot of us have thought about it, tried it, failed at it, or doing it all the time. In the beginning it was awkward, but as we did it more we got better, and after awhile we even got pretty good at it. It makes a lot of sense because it is a human instinct and our bodies tell us it feels right. Yet, when our minds and emotions get involved all of sudden it can get confusing. Our gut instinct knows when something is oh so clear, feels so right, and just simply fits perfect.Just think about it…In its purest form it should never be about you, but it should be about the other person;Always initiate foreplay with a specific purpose You can imagine (Your goal is to make sure that person is on a wonderful journey with you wiggling with joy, gasping in pleasure, happy, possibly mind blown, and that final “ahhhhhh” moment where the person FEELS like this was the best interaction and experience. Thinking is okay, but feeling will leave that permanent lasting mark because you connected with that Applying UX Design in a world full of ME Design

When I was studying multimedia design and communication some years ago the term User Experience had only been around for 1–2 years. It was a ‘sprout’ in the industry presented as an eclectic role for digital problem solvers. That’s where the majority of web designers, analysts and developers started to transmute into a very unique craft.Fast forward to today, you have UX Designers, UX Developers, IA/UX Designers, UX Unicorns, UXinsert whatever hybrid title. And me? I’m a Senior UX/UI Designer.People often assume that this job rocks (and it does). They say things like: ‘I wish I could do what you do for money’. If you are one of them and wonder where you should start or what exactly this role is about, this post is my attempt to answer that question for you.People tend to put UX into a creative specialist box, but the creativity is not just visual design. The truth is that we don’t use crayons to sketch out ideas, we don’t take creative breaks to play table football or play with legos to practice problem-solving. We don’t look for nor wait on inspiration from the Universe, use thousands of post-it notes to gather the ideas.What we do is to take problems and deliver solutions in creative ways based on research and data. Where feedback streams from different types of users collide, we as UX designers mark the noticeable patterns. We then build, iterate and test each step of solving the initial problem. Importantly, the ‘testing’ could refer even to just fool-proofing ideas in your own mind, or doing it with one user or thousands of them. Sounds complicated? And it is.To put it into basics:The interaction of these two elements is a daily process that the UX specialist has to manage. He acts as a translator and the iterations to the final product are the magic. Managing this process requires a lot of compromise and even more hustle.To be a UX designer, you should have a wide range of important skills. The quickest way to figure out if you do have these skills, is to ask yourself — can you do the following without frying your brain out:Lastly: Are you able to switch off your thinking and the problem-solving mechanism when the work day is over? This is where many specialists who display entrepreneurial values overreach, sacrificing their health, general wellbeing and work performance.Digital production remains an ever expanding industry as businesses focus more and more on their users. This tends to bring a solid demand for people who are able to solve problems and deliver mindful products. What this means for you is an amazing opportunity to explore and push your ideas forward without any doubts or fears. With immense demand the industry has your back.What you do as a UX designer can make users relate and empathise with a digital or physical product. This then results in higher conversion rates and sales. As in any other field, if you are good at something and deliver an abundance of value you will get rewarded accordingly.Furthermore, thanks to the eclectic nature of this field you will be able to apply the skills learned to other parts of your life. You will basically be able to solve any problem with your UX lenses on, designing the optimal solution, even if it’s just a date or you need to fix a household item in your house.This applies to any specialty in absolutely any field and even beyond that. A good mentor will deliver more valuable insight and learning, even in 20min sessions, than you trying to figure things out yourself through trial and error.Don’t panic if you don’t know anyone in your vicinity who could act as mentor. You can find mentors virtually by joining online communities or by following influential people on Twitter and other social media. Most people will be happy to help and give guidance if you ask them.This includes books and published online material. Actual UX cases in a deconstructed fashion are the best primer. These will give you the foundation on which to build your experience and expertise.Recommended books:Be a knowledge sponge willing to learn and take in information through osmosis. Finding an internship or job-shadowing a UX designer could enhance the theoretical knowledge you built up via books and courses. By being exposed to real life scenarios and challenges, you’ll know exactly what to do and how to apply what you learnt by the time you’re a fully-fledged UX designer, Moreover, this is really the only step which will reflect clearly on your resume and land you a better position in the future.UX/UI hustler

When it comes to user experience, Amazon really is the strangest of beasts. Take a few minutes to check out the website with a fresh eye (which is more difficult than you think) and you’ll find that the website is actually quite poor in many respects. The Information Architecture is practically non-existent; all the categories and sub-categories are filed chaotically under one central menu (which may as well be labelled ‘stuff’) making casual browsing and discovery pretty much impossible. Similarly, the website has never been on the cutting edge of aesthetically appealing design, nor I suspect will it ever be. No, where Amazon excels is in it’s familiarity and, ever increasingly, it’s convenience.The brilliance of Amazon’s user experience stems from their ability to reduce friction in the reordering process. In UX terms, friction is a term used to describe those sticky moments and potential pain points that crop up when using a site. More often than not when a site becomes too frustrating we’ll just abandon ship; coming up with innovative and creative solutions to lessen these points of friction and creating a smoother, less inhibited experience for the user is pretty much UX in a nutshell (albeit a slightly simplified nutshell, but I digress).While the sign up process itself is pretty straight forward, your first time through the seven stages of the checkout (yup, go count ‘em) can seem arduous. But the devil is in the storing of the details and it all becomes worthwhile by the time your second purchase rolls around. You see, Amazon know that the real rewards for both parties lie in customer retention. In exchange for a little bit of effort upfront (which, since we all signed up for an account years ago, we probably don’t remember anyway), Amazon rewards you with a painless returning visit every time.This is perfectly demonstrated in their 1-Click order system, which has been around for a while but it’s still worth marvelling at the ease of use this feature creates. Ordering using this method means the process of purchasing a product is so fast, you barely even have time to register you’ve parted with your money before you’re sitting there staring at a confirmation email wondering how on earth you got there so fast; did you really even spend any money at all? Nowhere is this more apparent than when purchasing ebooks, where the messaging takes full advantage of a customer’s impatient nature; ‘start reading This phrasing is key; the instantaneous nature of Amazon’s process coupled with that urgent tone of voice plays straight into the hands of that very human need to No other e-commerce company has managed to nail this process quite like Amazon. The only online retailer that comes even close is ASOS, who also take full advantage of previously stored details and next day delivery in exchange for a fixed yearly fee.The introduction of Amazon Dash, launched on April Fool’s Day to the confusion of many, is simply the next step in reducing the amount of friction a customer comes up against when ordering online. Looking at how it works, it seems that it is more or less a physical extension of the way in which the existing e-commerce platform already works; do a little bit of extra leg work to set things up first time around, in exchange for effortless reordering every time after. It’s still ordering at the click — or in this case push — of a button, but now you don’t even need to fire up your web browser.It doesn’t stop there either. With plans to eventually roll this out in conjunction with other branded smart products as part of the Dash Replenishment Service (DRS), it’s clear that Amazon are intent on taking virtually all the friction and thought out of the shopping process. For now, their focus is the everyday essentials in life, but knowing Amazon they probably have a wealth of ideas (and drones) up their sleeves.One conceivable problem that Amazon could create for themselves is that as the process becomes quicker and easier, our tolerance levels decrease, thus increasing the chance of unhappy customers if things go wrong or expectations run too high.For now though, Amazon continue to push forward our definitions of convenience. Whatever you may think of what this all means in the wider context of consumerism, they are mastering the art of a frictionless purchase path and — from a UX perspective at least — that is worth applauding.Designer | Photographer | Blogger | Occasionally spotted @ patchesandflash.co.ukUnlike the deadly ninjas that infiltrate the darkness of your dreams, we bring you great articles about user experience, web design, and technology!

Poster des annonces sur LinkedIn c’est cher, donc on s’est dit qu’il y avait de grandes chances que vous traîniez ici.L’agence Au sein d’une équipe de 3 personnes, vous serez formé par l’un des UX Designers de l’agence, jusqu’à ce que vous soyez suffisamment autonome pour vous voir confier vos propres projets.Vos tâches quotidiennes seront assez variées :La maîtrise de certains outils et livrables sera clairement un plus.Nous sommes 3 personnalités assez différentes mais on aime à croire que nous sommes complémentaires, nous attendrons de vous que vous apportiez votre propre touche.Une première expérience dans l’un des domaines suivants sera nécessaire :On attend de vos nouvelles, à bientôt !I was told there would be bacon. ☛ UX Designer at 

Ak máte web alebo aplikáciu a chcete vyladiť jej ergonómiu, možno uvažujete o testovaní použiteľnosti. Takéto testovanie identifikuje až 85% problémov použiteľnosti a je dobrou cestou ku kvalitnému User Experience.V praxi testovanie vyzerá tak, že do pozorovacej miestnosti (UX laboratórium) sú postupne pozývaní respondenti, ktorým moderátor zadáva úlohy na vašom webe alebo v aplikácii. Testovanie je nahrávané, prípadne naživo prenášané do pozorovacej miestnosti. Ak sa vyskytne úloha, s ktorou sa používateľ trápi, UX analytik identifikuje problém a nájde riešenie ako ho odstrániť.Existujú dva druhy moderovaného testovania v laboratóriu, s ktorými sa môžete stretnúť. Pri formatívnom testovaní vám postačí najať Sumatívne testovanie, rovnako ako formatívne, má za úlohu identifikovať problémy ergonómie. Naviac však získate benchmarky — teda presné kvantitatívne merania, ktoré vám umožnia robiť porovnania voči neskorším verziám stránky alebo aplikácie. Väčšinou sa monitorujú metriky ako čas trvania úlohy, úspešnosť, efektivita práce používateľa a pod. Na to, aby takéto merania boli štatisticky relevantné, budete potrebovať najať Vďaka formatívnemu testovaniu odhalíte až 85% chýb použiteľnosti. Ideálne je urobiť takéto testovanie počas vývoja produktu. Vďaka tomuto testovaniu predídete mnohým chybám v neskorších fázach vývoja produktu a nestojí vás to až toľko námahy.Hneď po redizajne odporúčame vykonať sumatívne testovanie. Tým si We are a User Experience studio with strong focus on user research and user testing. 

This The two problem with the sign? It’s not usable and it doesn’t address the root cause of the problem. It’s a perfect example of good design, bad user experience (UX).I find the visual design quite pleasing.They used a format that we are all familiar with. The signs are laid out the way our calendar apps display our schedule. Leveraging familiarity is a good design choice.They use big, bold colors to represent concepts. My eyes like the simplicity.They trimmed down the sign to the basic questions we all want to know: can I park here and how long? Keep It Simple Stupid.So while the sign is visually pleasant, it doesn’t work for me. By the way, I have driven daily in Brooklyn, Queens, and Manhattan when I lived in NYC.In NYC, different street have different hours when you can or can’t park. You can park here from midnight to 6 AM, there from midnight to 3 AM, and the street next to it? 8 AM to 12 PM. It looks like this sign is designed in a way that stretches the hour marks to accommodate for the individual streets. In the other words, the spacing between hour marks on this sign differ from street to street. This means you can’t just glance at a sign to know whether you can park or not. Because of the small font, you need to carefully drive up close and read the sign.This is dangerous! You want to be able to glance at a sign and then shift your eyes back on the road, where it belongs. After all, this is NYC. You share the road with cars, pedestrians, and cyclists.One value proposition is the ability to combine multiple signs into one consolidated sign. I suspect, though, that the totem pole of parking signs is symptomatic of the way goverment works — different departments with disjointed processes. Actually, the most annoying signs are the ad-hoc signs. The ones where they post up a piece of paper or temporary signage for pop up farmers market, on location film and television, or concerts.Solving the problem of unified signage may not be creating a unified sign, but changing the process of how various organizations get their signage approved in the first place.UX is not always about making better product, sometimes it’s about better policies and processes.When I’m traveling to a new place, I usually have Google Maps or some sort of GPS system on. If my GPS tells me ahead of time of where I can park, that would be idea. I wouldn’t have to scour the streets for signage, then spend time reading the sign when I should be focused on the road.Also, often by the time I read the signage I already missed a good chunk of available parking spots. Then I have to loop around the block and see whether there are any parking space alongside the street.If Google Maps can help me plan out a “parking finder route,” that would be ideal. I wouldn’t have to even worry about reading signage or plotting routes for how to find parking.“But what about times when you don’t use Google Maps?”Valid question. The times when I don’t use Google Maps are times when I travel to places I’m already familiar with. In those cases, I’m usually fairly familiar with where I can park at what time, so I wouldn’t need this feature anyway. Moot!By the way, this has been Dynamic LCD displays that display clearly “yes/no” for parking. In Seattle, some of the speed signs are on interactive displays. The speed limit then can change with the traffic congestion. This is a much more pricey implementation of course. There’s a lot more to manufacture, install, and maintain.But, imagine if instead of parking signs, there are interactive displays that plainly tells you “2 hrs until 8 PM” or “No parking until 7 PM.” It ignores all the other rules that may not apply, like showing you what Saturday rules when it’s Thursday. Different signage requestors (concertos, schools, road cleaners) can input their rules and it all gets compiled into one unified message.I’m sure my suggestions have their pitfalls as well. And I would love to hear what they are.Design and UX is a process, a conversation between different parties. So, even though I think the user experience for this “Google Calendar Signage” is bad, the fact that the designer got me to write about it and think about it means they’ve won.I make physical products from code | Building Things at Amazon | Dabbler of many things.hm, I wonder…

More than 1.5 million apps live on the App Store today, with over 60,000 added each month. App developers and tech companies alike have become increasingly conscious of the need to create delightful experiences within their products to stand them apart from the competition. One way in which they have accomplished this is through the careful application of UX animation. When applied correctly, animation can make a digital experience more delightful and intuitive for the end user, resulting in fewer usability complaints and increased customer retention. It is also a powerful tool for prototyping and presenting designs before a new product is built.The purpose of this article is to provide a starting point for integrating UX animation within your design project. It is my hope that after reading, you will learn why and when animation should be used, what tools are best for the job, and what a UX animation workflow typically looks like. I will be sharing the research I have collected on the subject as well as my own findings and insights. Let’s get started!When used correctly, animation has the power to not only surprise and delight, but also provide context and locational awareness to the user. Transitional animations can help show the user where they came from and where they are going within a digital experience. It can highlight important action items, illustrate a change in value, and even serve as a navigational guide.Google has released their design guidelines, called The advantages of introducing animation in the prototyping phase include the enhanced presentation experience, client buy-off, and a more intentional development execution.Conversely, animation that is not carefully thought out, or added simply for its own sake, can Knowing when to include animation in the design phase can be challenging; the limitations of the project budget often make the case for animation difficult. While static wireframes can be sufficient enough to convey the experience, certain interactions can be difficult to illustrate without showing how they’re supposed to move.When the decision is made to include animation in a project, it can be easy to add more than what is really necessary. Try to put yourself in the shoes of your users and ask the following questions:It is important to take animation into consideration early in the design phase so that its implementation is intentional rather than an afterthought. Including it in prototypes can help solve non-standard UX problems that would be difficult to sell without animation.Let’s take a look at how to build a consistent workflow approach for creating animated prototypes with Adobe Creative Cloud. If you are new to After Effects, or simply need a refresher on how to use it, check out this very thorough One of the advantages of using After Effects for UI animation is that you can directly import and animate any wireframes or mockups made in Photoshop or Illustrator. However, it is important to properly setup your source files for animation before importing them into After Effects (see below).If you’re just getting started with your project and have not yet begun design, you may be wondering which Adobe tool is best for creating animation ready source files. This choice comes down to personal preference; both are sufficiently suitable for creating good source files. The one advantage that Photoshop holds over Illustrator is the ability to Once your mockups are finished and ready to be animated, the first item you want to address when prepping your photoshop or illustrator files is grouping. Good organization is critical for a smooth animation workflow, and you will want to group all layers in a manner that is clear and supports the animation you are working to achieve. For example: if you have a UI with some tables that you would like to sequentially animate into view, each table, along with its contents, should be assigned to a separate group so you can apply animation to it directly in AE.While layer grouping is critical for an efficient animation workflow, it is just as important to limit the number of individual elements (or layers) in a composition to the items that you will actually need to move during the animation. For example, let’s say you’ve made a clock face in PS and want to animate the turning hands in AE. In Photoshop, each number on the clock face will likely be on its own layer, resulting in 12 individual layers that will not need to move independently. For the sake of workflow simplicity, we can simply Once all the layers in your source file (AI or PS) have been properly organized and grouped, you’re ready to import them into After Effects. Create a new Composition in AE and click on Once imported, double click on the new composition to see the layers and groups displayed just as they were from the source.Once you have imported a Photoshop file into After Effects you can still make some changes to it, and after saving, they will be reflected automatically in AE. However, you cannot add new layers to a PS scene once you’ve already imported it into AE. A solution to counter this, should you decide you need a few more layers later on, is to add a couple blank layers to your Photoshop document before importing it. This way you can add content to the blank layers should you later need to do so.Another feature that makes the Photoshop to After Effects relationship so great is the ability to edit layer styles and type imported from PS. When importing a .PSD file, be sure to select the “Editable Layer Styles” radio button from the import dialog window (see below)Once the file is imported, right click on a layer containing a layer-style and select Now you can edit and manipulate the layer style just as you could in Photoshop. The same process applies for editing imported text: Right click on the text layer and select If you’ve ever used After Effects for any length of time, you’ve almost certainly experienced the frustration of having to manually move an object’s pivot point.Whether you want it centered on the shape or aligned to one of its edges, this is almost always a manual process that involves dragging the pivot point and eyeballing its placement.Well do I have good news for you! A I can almost assure you that at some point in your UX animation career, you will be asked to make a number counting animation. Fortunately, this is quite easy to do if you follow these steps:While there is certainly a lot that I did not cover here, I hope that this has inspired you to start exploring the possibilities of animation in your own work. Feel free to respond with any questions you may have about my process or UX animation in general.UX  Motion Graphics Designer | artofzachgoldstein.comThoughts from the agency folk 

As I near the end of my first semester of senior year, the pressure to figure out post-grad plans has steadily heightened. I’m pretty positive most of my fellow colleagues have skipped classes, not because they are lazy, but because the interviewing/job-hunt process is so overwhelmingly time consuming. As a young UX designer yearning for the right opportunity to break into the industry while attending a research-focused liberal arts school, I’ve found myself without much guidance from professional administrators when it comes to finding opportunities.Due to the lack of UX knowledge at my university I have had to use a combination my external UX mentors for advice and my intuition. Fortunately, my job hunt has come to an end and I’ve secured not one but two promising positions for myself post-graduation.Let me tell you how I did it.Seriously. A wise friend of mine offered me the most useful advice I’ve come across since beginning my job-hunt. After researching companies you would like to work at and internet stalking their design staff, look up the designers you found most inspiring or who you seemed to have the most in common with on LinkedIn. I reached out to dozens of designers in the areas, companies, and positions I wished to be in. Of course some didn’t reply, but a surprisingly high amount did.Don’t be afraid to go big. I purposefully reached out to mid-level designers as well as the top dogs at each company I wanted to work at. Guess who responded the most: the big wigs. These new connections led to interviews, insightful relationships, and connections with company stakeholders who urged me to keep them up to date with my career progress.When you send your initial connection invites obviously don’t say “Hi Jane Doe, I want to work at Company X. How can I get a job?” Be authentic. Explain why you are interested in the company they work at, and more importantly their personal design story. After all, if you want to be successful in User Experience then you already understand how important it is to forge meaningful relationships with other designers. These relationships are truly invaluable and could take you down some interesting paths.That being said, after you’ve received a reply from your desired connection be up front about what you’re looking for — whether it’s an internship, a full-time position, or simply advice. This leads me to my final point.After all, this is an industry where “thinking outside the box” is basically an unwritten requirement. This type of thinking led me to my most interesting job offer, but let me give a little background first.Early October I was completely engulfed in the job-hunt process. I took a huge risk and interviewed for a major tech firm that disappointingly didn’t lead to an offer. What it did lead to was amazing connections with some awesome people. Because I was genuinely interested in the company and I have a huge passion for the industry, the designers and HR staff noticed my eagerness to learn. Even after I received my rejection phone call, my HR rep connected me with another lead designer so that she could give me very honest and constructive advice, which apparently is not something they ever do. They urged me to keep in contact and reach back out in a few months. That was my first rejection, but it was an amazing rejection that really was a cracked rather than closed door.Come end of October I made the decision to accept a position at a digital agency where I had an great internship the summer prior. Ironically, as soon as I accepted this position, a lead designer from an extremely cool digital and in-store clothing service company reached back out to me. I’ve worked at consultancies and agencies before, but I really wanted to work at a company that built AND owned the products they designed.This lead designer informed me that the company normally only hired designers with 5+ years of experience, which was definitely not what I had. This could have been the end of our discussion, but I decided to test my luck. Because my full-time position at the agency would not begin until the fall I asked if the company might be interested in having me as a summer intern.Long story short, the designers ran with that idea and I officially have two jobs secured post-graduation. Furthermore, a co-founder at the innovative clothing service company recently told me that he hopes I have a very fulfilling summer with them and if they seem like a good fit then a full-time offer is on the table.Basically my advice is to not be afraid to talk to the top dogs and go for exactly what you want. As a college student or a recent grad who doesn’t have much UX experience, you really have nothing to lose. The worst that will happen is you won’t get a response, and most rejections (if you play your cards right) are only temporary. I wish you luck in your UX job-hunting endeavors!Aspiring UX Designer | Chameleon | Pasta Junkie

by Joie ReinsteinSo why have New Yorkers worked themselves into a digital frenzy? I have a theory, perhaps controversial, that the more unstable and anxiety ridden the society, the more it relies on what I like to call “attention hogging technology” (meaning apps, texting, any other personal devices requiring your full attention). In a society where things run smoothly and there is job security, there aren’t as many stress filled moments requiring a distracting app, just moments that could be counted as quality time to spend how one wishes. This at least is how I’m trying to wrap my head around what I witnessed in Stockholm. Practically the minute I arrived, I was struck by the fact that people there spend little time staring at their smart phone. On the flip side, what I noticed with children led me to believe that the Digital Native generation will be a real society shifter when they come of age. Unlike their parents, the 10–12 year old set was definitely glued to their iPhones. A group of school kids got on the subway car with me and they were all giggling and playing with their phone, using an app that took a picture of their eyes and turned them into animal eyes whilst another girl snapchatted away. As they are pretty much using the same apps and sharing the same interests as their counterparts around the globe, I feel the idea that technology leveling the playing field will really come to fruition with them. Perhaps this digital cultural homogenization could be a good thing when it comes to international relations. Or it could also mean the beginnings of a dangerous hive mind…So back to my theory about stable societies. Stockholm runs perfectly. Everything just works. The trains are on time, the schedules are right, there are wifi free zones almost everywhere, especially the places you need it, interactive kiosks are up to date,and technology just seems to have been seamlessly melded into the city: flawless service design where the tech doesn’t get in the way, it just makes the place one giant and perfect User Experience for humans.Creative Strategist  UX Designer, Global Nomad, K-pop Dancer.

Today’s customers are time-starved and overwhelmed with information. As a result, many shop, in a whole new way, leaving brands unable to have a meaningful influence on purchase decisions in their customer journey.You can’t design or create effective marketing campaigns for people unless you understand them: how they behave, what motivates them, how they think. That’s where user experience aligns with marketing. Often, the most important role of the UX Designer is to be the person who asks the question “why?”. This helps to understand the underlying problem before attempting to solve it. One of Learning UX Design totally impacted the way I think and act as a marketer. It confirmed me that the overlap between creating meaningful marketing campaigns, and the user experience is significant, and by applying a human centered approach to understand your customers, you can increase acquisition and retention.How a customer feels when they visit your website is a great indicator for whether or not they’ll continue to engage further with your brand. It is known that on average, first-time visitors spend eight seconds on a landing page. So how might we engage with them during their journey on our website? A great way to understand the role of user experience design in Marketing for a brand, is to see it applied to a real product. A great example of a brand that follows the user centered approach in their marketing campaigns is Lululemon.If you’ve seen Lululemon’s marketing campaigns, you’ve noticed they all have one thing in common: they empathize with their customers needs. These campaigns are not created “by marketers to customers”. They’re created “by humans to humans”. We can observe that Lululemon knows their customers on a personal level.They understand what resonates with people, what are their daily habits, affinities, influences, behaviors, and moreover, they know the WHY behind their customer journey, those psychological triggers underlying their decision making.As a result, we’ve learned that Lululemon is not about just a pair of yoga pants, or another outdoor jacket. It is about feelings. It is about the sensation you have while wearing a light, comfortable piece of clothing. Because ultimately, people who wear Lululemon clothes want to feel happy, and alive while doing the things they love.This type of customer-centricity requires that marketers pay attention not just to analytics or demographics, but also to UX Design helps us to think less like marketers, and more like humans.If marketers rely solely on demographics, life stages, or purchase channels, they miss an opportunity to build deeper connections with customers. The strongest marketers are those who are comfortable analyzing behavior data, while also conducting and incorporating qualitative research about the users.By developing UX Design skills, empathizing with people’s interests, likes, dislikes, concerns, emotions, aspirations, or sources of joy is essential for creating successful marketing campaigns. Mastering UX Design skills and tools can help marketers understand their users’ feelings about a site or a product. As a result, they build intrinsic empathy so they meet and surpass people’s needs across every brand touch point.FSr. Digital Strategist | This is where I share about strategy, design and my learning journey to building products that people want.

As the new movie is coming out this fall, I want to remind everyone of an all time favorite book, “The Little Prince” by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. It is not only for children, but for adults as well. If you read it as an adult, you might remember the real importance of life and will bring out the child inside of you. As a UX designer, I must never forget to work and play, bring the creative child inside of me by following the discipline of the design process. With that in mind, I want to share 4 quotes from the book that I identify with the User Experience process.Coming from an Industrial Design background and converting into User Experience Design, I can say what users value the most is not the design aesthetics; it is what the product makes them feel. It can make them feel motivated, empowered, comfortable, and/or happy. In order to give those feelings to the user, the whole experience has to be amazing.A User Experience Designer’s job is to make everything look simple for the client and user. When things are simple, the delightful details make the experience amazing. We solve complex problems with an effortless solution in order to make the product/interaction more functional and user friendly. To make the experience happen, we must encompass the whole intangible experience by following a holistic approach. The holistic process includes from user research to information architecture to interaction design to communication design and never forgetting to build empathy and keep the user in mind through the whole process. Although the coat of graphic/visual design is necessary for the eyes, the whole experience is touched by the mind and heart giving gratification for their usage and time.By creating ties, you can create good experiences. In order to create a good experience for the user, the user must feel a kind of trust. We must offer enough detailed information on the product to allow people to make their own mind and accept it. Show interest in their needs by communicating in an informal, direct, and participative way to gain their trusted and get them engaged. In order to do that, we must identify with the users and immerse ourselves into the user’s world. By creating empathy — putting yourself in the users shoes — we can understand their emotions and feelings.Designing a successful product requires a deep understanding of the user, the context, their goals and needs and how they will behave. Defining the problem and selecting the most instinctual behavioral pattern solution is essential. The designer has to connect with the end user — understand their mental models, predict how the user would navigate, consider their preferences. By creating a strong bond between the product and the user, we create a good experience and a recurring customer.As a UX designer one must not focus on the “what” rather on the “why”. Research and usability testing are keys to success. The worst mistake that can be made is not doing the necessary usability tests with future users because the perception that the designer/developer has might be different than the user’s perception. So, there is a risk that the product might come out complicated and tedious for the user.With that in mind, there are 2 types of research methods: quantitative vs. qualitative. Quantitative data focuses on numbers or figures like the grown-ups in the book. With quantitative data, you can see where people drop off or how many times they click the button. However, it won’t tell you “why” they are dropping or clicking the button; for that, you need qualitative data. To create qualitative data, you can use protocols and interviews to view where the user interacts with the product. Through observation and conversations you can find the patterns, frustrations, and motivations. Remember, it is not about figures, rather than explore the touch points of their frustrations and their gratifications. UX designers must empathize with the users in order to create the best solution.UX designers are the geographers, and the users are the explorers. Our job as UX designers is to gather the right information in order to solve the problem. With the right research and analysis, we can define scenarios by using “personas” that describe the user, create blueprints on how the product will be used, and create journey maps of how the flow will unfold. The user must be able to find the value in the product/interaction by following a seamless journey. We must annotate the user’s experience through the whole process. Find where there are faults in the process and fix it with the best solution according to the user’s needs. By experiencing the whole product smoothly, the user can get motivated and trigger into action, which means that they will chose this product over other products. Finally, amazing experiences make people happy and happy people create the world into a better place.“The Little Prince” is a wonderful book for children and adults. I couldn’t help to make an analogy of the book with the wonderful field of User Experience Design. There are many take-aways from the book. I recommend you to read it with a new perspective. Don’t forget the basic principles: look at what is essential, make amazing experiences, empathize with others and create bonds.Mexican/Spaniard Designer: ID | Accessory | IXD | UX . Creating better designs through simplicity and user focus experiences.

by Trong NguyenKhi iPod được giới thiệu lần đầu tiên vào năm 2006, có rất nhiều ý kiến chê bai về chiếc máy này.Năm 2010, Apple đã bán được 240,000,000 chiếc iPods.Ít chức năng hơn các thiết bị nghe nhạc bình thường, kích thước nhỏ hơn, chỉ vài nút bấm cứng,… Nhưng điều gì đã giúp iPod được ưa chuộng như vậy?Vậy làm thế nào để thiết kế một trãi nghiệm như thế?Đây có lẽ là bài học đầu tiên của mình (mình nghĩ là của hầu hết UX Designer) khi làm về UX. Điều này có nghĩa là bạn phải hiểu được thế giới của người ta và làm thế nào mà thiết kế của mình tương thích với thế giới đó. Đó thật sự là một vấn đề khó, nhưng chúng ta có thể làm được điều này bằng cách quan sát người dùng ở môi trường tự nhiên của họ: phòng làm việc, trong nhà hoặc bên ngoài.Cơ mà khoan đã, chờ một chút, mình muốn nói về điều này. Người dùng của bạn có thể có 3 kiểu như sau:Hãy xem quan một ví dụ: hãy lấy bất kỳ một nhóm sử dụng Microsoft Excel trong 5 năm thử xem. Sẽ có một số người kiểu chuyên gia hay lục loại phần “Setting” để làm những thứ mà chúng nó thich, và những người còn lại chỉ dùng chức năng chèn cột số liệu.Nếu bạn muốn sự đơn giản, thì nhóm khách hàng chủ đạo là những người bạn cần nhắm tới.Khi bạn đang thiết lập tầm nhìn, hãy chắn chắn rằng nhóm chủ đạo nằm ở vị trí chủ chốt.Nhóm sẵn sàng thích ứng thích sử dụng một số đặc điểm mới lạ, miễn là bạn làm họ sử dụng dễ dàng. Bạn có thể học được nhiều thứ khi quan sát nhóm này, nhưng nếu tập trung vào họ, thì chúng ta đang quá dễ dãi cho chính mình. Họ có thể chỉ ra một vài vấn đề khi sử dụng, nhưng nhóm này không đặc trưng. Họ là một nhóm nhỏ cực đoan, họ có nhiều kỹ năng hơn nhóm chủ đạo.Chúng ta sẽ tiếp tục xem sự khác nhau giữa 2 nhóm còn lại:Đừng nghĩ rằng bạn có thể dạy người dùng cách sử dụng. Họ đang chịu áp lực, họ có xu hướng quên đi những thứ vừa học, từ chối những chỉ dẫn và trở lại thành những chú nai ngơ ngác.Trãi nghiệm đơn giản cần làm việc cho chú nai này, hay còn gọi là một người dùng chủ đạo đang chịu áp lực.Đây là một phần quan trọng trong thiết kế UX. Để thấu hiểu khách hàng là một việc rất là khó, nhưng không phải không làm được.Phép màu sẽ xảy ra khi chúng ta áp dụng những thứ đã học trong việc nghiên cứu người dùng và áp dụng nó trong một sự hiểu biết sâu sắc về vấn đề đang giải quyết.Hãy thử nghiệm với prototype và sản phẩm của đối thủ. Nhờ đó, chúng ta có thể tìm ra sự khác biệt nhỏ làm cho sự thấu hiểu của chúng ta trở nên giá trị hơn.Đừng vội bắt tay vào thiết kế vội. Thay vì đó, hãy dành thời gian cho việc hiểu vấn đề, nó sẽ dân đến một phương án giải quyết tốt hơn, đơn giản hơn.Là một nhà thiết kế, chúng ta muốn bắt đầu thiết kế ngay lập tức. Chúng ta phải chống lại việc này. Bắt đầu sớm đồng nghĩa với việc chúng ta sẽ mất đi những sự thấu hiểu quan trọng. Nó thậm chí đồng nghĩa với việc thiết kế sai cả một sản phẩm.Vậy nên đừng có vội vàng thiết kế. Hiểu điều gì là cốt lõi cần có thời gian.Mình sẽ kết thúc phần 1 ở đây. Hi vọng phần 2 sẽ được hoàn thành sớm.Xin cám ơn!UX/UI Designer at Code Engine Studio

When it comes to interactive digital products, aesthetic value is ultimately a product of function. To the end user, good design and development goes unnoticed. It just works as expected. A polished surface does not hide a badly designed or poorly built product. It only adds to the frustration of the user, resulting in a negative impact on that users perception of the brand. Design can often be viewed as the last stage in the process of creating a digital product, instead of the first. The bit at the end when “design is applied” and the polished surface is added. The manifestation of the term UX within the industry is likely a result of this misconception. An attempt for both designers and developers to better communicate their roles and their contribution to the creation of a digital product, and be rightly viewed as the creators of a complete user experience. However in my experience, the confusion around this term can have a negative effect on the design and development process, creating a grey area between the roles and responsibilities of design and development teams, and potentially shifting responsibility for consideration of the user to a “UX professional”.For example, a wireframe is a method with which to illustrate and communicate an idea, available to anyone with a idea, a pencil, and a notepad. However, wire-framing can often be viewed as the responsibility of a UX professional. A process that does not fall within the remit of the “visual designer”. Highly detailed wireframes which are presented and obtain buy in from the business owner can be a straight jacket to a designer, as they rightly or wrongly dictate the platform, information architecture, hierarchy of information, and the use of interactive components within the UI. These decisions are ultimately design decision, and the responsibility of the designer.That isn’t to suggest that design happens in isolation. Great ideas and possible solutions can and do come from anywhere and anyone. In addition, strong internal development teams often have a valuable insight into user behaviour, and can contribute essential user data, and highlight any technical limitations which will significantly contribute to the final solution.The primary role of the designer is to listen, understand the problem, empathise, and apply their knowledge, experience, diplomacy, and creativity to solving that problem. The primary role of the developer is to bring the design to life, creating a working digital product that performs at a high level on any number of platforms. Both are responsible for the end product and user experience, as are any others who have contributed to the final solution.Large agencies driven by financial gain rather than the creation of meaningful design have abused the term UX, inventing a whole new set of specialist roles, dramatically dividing responsibility and accountability for a project at the expense of the client.The creation of meaningful digital products requires a clear understanding of the problem, a designer responsible for solving the problem, and a developer to execute the solution. Understanding the problem is key, and involves anyone who can provide relevant insight, and needs to be clearly understood by all involved.In my view UX is an oxymoron, like “user centred design”. All design is user centred, or it isn’t design. User experience is something that everyone within a company or organisation is responsible for (as is the strength and perception of the brand). True leadership for these components does not sit with the Brand Manager, or the UX Design Director. It belongs right at the top of the food chain with the CEO and the people they employ, providing those individuals with a clear purpose and direction that they can believe in, and giving them enough resources in order to do their jobs well.I predict that what was once viewed by many as the responsibilities of the UX professional, will return to the individuals who design and build the digital products.If you enjoyed this please recommend/share, and take a look at my Other links: 

by In agile software development pairing is a technique that engineers use to maximize efficiency and quality. It helps engineers deepen their practice and relationships. It adds a level of fun to their work and gives them more confidence that they are proceeding down the right path.UX Designers can get these same benefits from implementing their own pairing model. Due to the nature of design vs. engineer work the model for Design Pairing is structured differently than pair programming. Design Pairing has additional benefits in environments with multiple on-going projects because multiple designers will be well informed about product and design decisions instead of just one.Here are the benefits my teams have derived from design pairing:When a project begins there are two designers assigned, one is the lead while the other is a design partner. The lead designer will spend most of her time on that project while the design partner will spend small increments during key moments (as explained below). The design partner will also have her own projects where she is the lead and will have her own design partner. These activities are broken up into three phases: the joint kickoff, individual sketching (diverge), and collaboration (converge.)Both designers are there during the kick-off with stakeholders. If possible the design partner can attend most sessions. This enables both designers to have a shared understanding of the stakeholders desires, motiviations, and context.Depending on the project this could be one or multiple meetings. Each designer can participate as they normally would, asking poignant questions and clarifying requirements and goals.Once it is time for visualizing potential solutions each designer goes off to sketch, sketch, sketch…. by themselves. That’s where the joint kickoff ends and the individual sketching begins.Benefits: * Both designers have a shared understanding of the project detailsAt this point it is a divide and conquer effort. Each designer may choose to do activities like research, and should do those activities individually. They come up with as many ideas for how to solve the problem, but they do it alone. Take a walk, come back, reflect on your work. Refine. This effort can all take place over the period of a few hours to a day. Performing intitial sketching individually provides more value than doing it together because you are not influenced by other people in the room or other ideas. You have quiet time where you can focus. I see this period of the process as “growing ideas.” Come up with as many solutions as possible. You are preparing for pairing.Benefits: * Individaul sketching yeilds more ideas, and those ideas are more varied, resulting in a better product * Sketching is more rapid than doing high fidelity design, but still keeps both designers in sync on important decisions about the productThen later that day or they next day the designers get together and share their work. This is where the collaborative fun begins. How did the designers solve similar problems differently? What are the pros and cons of the different approaches? Some ideas will merge while others will be discarded. There could be a case for putting two different ideas in front of users or subject matter experts to see which resonates the best. As the project matures the lead designer works with the core project team and the design evolves. The lead designer will handle the design responsibilities for the project, however she will meet with her partner for critique and collaboration at key milestones or for a casual check-in on an idea.Benefits: * Even though designers do not work together 100% of the time, they both understand why and how critical product decisions were madeThis way of working sets up a great format for discussion because the design partner has context. Since the partner understands the business and the problem she can get right to the design. A second set of eyes always has the potential to make a good design great, but because of the design partner’s involvement in the process her comments will have valuable substance. This model has been most useful with complex subject matter. I have found that when someone critiques a design and they do not have an intimate understanding of the business or its rules the discussion may not get beneath the surface.Downstream the lead designer may have meeting conflicts or other projects that pull her in a different direction while that original project continues to move forward. Keep the design partner involved with any major discussions or events. If you do this the design partner can cover for the main designer. In some larger organizations designers can unexpectedly be pulled off projects and assigned to something new. Ramping up a new designer from scratch is painful. With this structure it becomes an easier transition if the partner can swap in.Get creative for how it can fit into your team structure!Simplicity Driven Development

How do you design something for someone you know nothing about? I mean, I first asked this question in 2009, after attending a I’d been working in advertising for a few years, trying to shape inane marketing copy into something that made sense to normal people, and I was starting to get more website work than anything else–which meant that my information suddenly had to be usable, not just catchy. UX design overlaps significantly with UI (user interface) design, and I invited There was no easy answer. The question stayed in the back of my brain, twirling away while I worked on website content for credit card companies, car manufacturers and other Earth-bound clients. On coffee breaks I read up on intelligence, cognition and behavior. I slowly narrowed down an interesting set of challenges and starting points. I gathered them into a talk titled “UX for Aliens” at the 2012 We’ll start with the obvious limitation: any alien we’re interested in is definitely one thing: in design/Tron terminology, a “user”. It’s the only thing we know about them, because even if our design happens to find aliens but they aren’t users, they won’t use anything we send them anyway.Luckily, “user” is a surprisingly specific filter. On Earth, there are only a handful of organisms that use tools of any kind. We can get some useful information from seeing what they have in common.Humans top the list of course. Usually, designers consider humans with all the standard senses and abilities — sight, sound, touch, fully developed adult brain, the works. Some designers, though, have designed for children, the elderly, or people from other cultures where there are slightly different considerations in laying out a website. Hopefully most designers consider the fact that roughly 8% of human males are colorblind. A designer reading this may have even worked on an audio interface at some point, like Siri, a bank customer service hotline, or even Far fewer people have designed something for apes. Apes are basically human as far as users go. They have hands, and Elephants evolved in the same environment as us, at the same time as us, in a slightly different ecological niche. They have enormous brains, incredible dexterity with their trunks, complex communication and culture that we still know basically nothing about despite having interacted with them for millions of years. They’ve been documented using paintbrushes, pulleys and Some of the most common tool users turn out to be birds, famously Alex the African grey parrot, (if you haven’t read about Bottlenose dolphins don’t have hands, claws or even trunks, but they still manage to We’ll get back to SPEL in a bit. First, let’s find a really different user. Slimy, tentacles, big bulging eyes–that’s right–Other invertebrates are users, too. Ants That sums up our known users. None of them are ET, but we can form some ideas about extraterrestrial users by looking at what they have in common. Humans, chimpanzees, elephants, dolphins, corvids, parrots and ants all have one thing clearly in common: we’re all highly social. There’s a natural connection to be made between being social and being a user. If I’m out in the wilderness trying to avoid being naturally selected against, I have a limited ability to see danger approaching. If another animal near me freaks out all of a sudden and runs off, chances are I should run off, too, even though I haven’t seen the danger for myself. Because of this, animals that travel together in groups survive well and pass on a preference for company. In one sense of the word, our ancestors became users when they first started using each other as an extension of their own senses.We’ve been social animals far longer than we’ve been tools users, (in fact we’ve been social animals far longer than we’ve been human,) so it’s fair to wonder if tool use evolved as an extension of the same ability that made us social. One theory is that, yes, (Even the octopus, while it isn’t social, has an incredible ability to imitate its surroundings for camouflage. I’m guessing it has an excellent understanding of its environment as an extension of itself, and that leads to its tool use abilities. It probably doesn’t have mirror neurons anything like ours, but it has something that’s allowing it to think this way–to understand an object as an extension of its own body.)I propose that this is the one assumption we can make about all users, on Earth and anywhere else: In order to use something, one must have the ability to understand it as an extension of oneself.This still leaves us with a lot of unknowns to deal with. Remember, we can’t assume anything else about aliens. We don’t know if they have hands, tentacles, eyes or ears. We don’t know if they can see the same range of light as us, or if they can biologically sense sound the way we can.We can look at this problem through three basic topics that come up in every design conversation: content, media and device.Lucy the dolphin is swimming around in the ocean and she meets Jamie the dolphin. Suddenly a shark appears! What do they do? Lucy hatches a plan, and, using echolocation, projects the whole scenario to Jamie, in 3D. In the echolocation projection, Jamie sees, just as if she were watching it happen, herself and Lucy flanking the shark and ramming it in the gills. Because echolocation is three dimensional and real-time, she now knows exactly how far away Lucy is from the shark, what the shark looks like from Lucy’s side, and how precisely to time the attack. The shark gets closer, and they execute a perfectly coordinated offensive maneuver. As the shark sinks into watery oblivion, they high-flipper in the universal celebration of cetacean victory.These two dolphins may have never met before, but because their mode of communication depends only on having a shared biology and a shared environment, they’re able to do this — and in fact bottlenose dolphins who’ve never met before have been observed synchronizing their movements precisely. They have no need for metaphor, for symbolism, or for language as we understand it. Claiming dolphins are telepathic sounds cliche, but I can’t think of a better word to sum up the potential versatility of this mode of communication, whether dolphins actually use it or not.The closest thing humans have to telepathic content is virtual reality. Like Lucy and Jamie, if you and a friend each have an When an alien tries to squeeze an Oculus Rift over its squirming head parts, will it be able to perceive what’s inside? Is the resolution high enough, the frame rate fast enough, the brightness or volume right? And what about the light we’re using — is it the appropriate spectrum? Do they even perceive electromagnetism?Humans have two completely different sensory organs that both pick up photons. Our eyes pick them up at a high enough resolution to read road signs on the freeway (hopefully), but our skin also picks them up at a resolution comparable to what a paramecium sees. Problem is, we don’t know if aliens can perceive light at a very low resolution or a very high resolution, and only picking one will make it indecipherable to an alien who happens to have the other. So we do both: project in the highest resolution possible, but design for the lowest. Imagine reading this article on a retina display, only one letter at a time, and each letter fills the entire screen. It would be annoying to read, but at least you’d able to tell it was something from across the room.Of course resolution won’t matter much if ET is seeing at a different frame rate. Humans like at least 30 frames per second — fewer than that and it makes us uncomfortable, much fewer and we assume we’re looking at a photograph. Cats prefer a faster frame rate — probably the speed of scurrying rodents. Plants don’t look like they’re doing much to us, but to an intelligent plant, we might look like meaningless squiggles blurring by in fast-forward, while other plants are growing new leaves and branches constantly, at a perfectly normal rate. To accommodate both cat-aliens and tree-aliens, we might send several versions of what we design, functioning in super slow motion, super fast-forward, and several speeds in-between. With messages at several speeds looping simultaneously, we’ll increase our odds of having at least one of them register as “something interesting happening”.There’s one more media issue to consider: strength. If the light is too dim, they won’t see it, and if it’s too bright, it could blind or even kill them. That’s a big problem. I’m reminded of my own distaste for waking up early: Switching on a light after being cozy in the dark all night feels jarring, even depressing in the winter. Last year I finally picked up a sunrise alarm clock, which starts very dim and gradually increases in brightness. If we use my alarm clock’s trick, and give our alien users an easy way to stop it before it gets too bright, we might prevent interstellar war.On that thought, we’ll also want to make sure the signal can never get so strong that it would kill us if the aliens send it back.This, of course, is assuming the aliens can perceive light at all. They might be perceiving the world mainly in sound, like a dolphin or a bat, in chemicals, like ants, or even in magnetism or some other channel. They would probably be able to sense several different forces at varying resolution, like we can, (we have eyes, ears and noses,) but we have no way of knowing which senses they would have at a high enough resolution to perceive what we design. We can accommodate this unknown by designing for as many possible modes of perception as we can, to maximize the possibility of one of them being a match.Which brings us to our next consideration: device.With media we’re not native to–I’ll use radio as an example–we need an external device to pick up the signal, translate it into a media we are native to, like sound. Then, if we want to communicate that same message to someone else via radio, the sound has to be encoded back into radio, sent, then translated back into sound on the receiving end. The raw radio waves pass through us constantly and we’re utterly blind to them.Let’s imagine we’re radio natives. We have sensory organs, in the shape of giant discs perhaps, that can pick up radio waves and send the signal straight to our brains. What would the signal we sent earlier, that was translated from sound and meant to be translated back into sound by an external device, look like? Not much.What if a radio native is sending a radio signal to us right now? SETI is actively looking for radio signals, but if that radio signal were sent by a radio native, and it represented something we might even recognize, like a map of their solar system or a self-portrait of their segmented, slimy bodies, it wouldn’t have the kind of pattern we’re looking for. It wouldn’t be a set of prime numbers or Morse code–it would look like noise to us, the way a photograph of a star would be indistinguishable against the night sky if you were only looking for a neon sign. We could be getting millions of these radio signals right now and we would have no idea.We can deal with this by treating all media as native media. That means every message, every button, every scroll bar or knob, sound effect (or radio effect), has to be understandable to someone who natively perceives the media we design in. And since we can’t know which media are their native ones, we make duplicates, again, in as many media as possible.To sum up:It looks like a whole lot of effort, and it will be. This is why we do user research when we have access to our users–it saves a lot of work. If you happen, however, to be designing a probe to Kepler 22b, or an iPad game for an octopus, or a time capsule for someone who comes across our planet long after our languages have been forgotten, there is one last design principle I’d like to leave you with: Don’t let the what-ifs stop you.The Pioneer Plaque vector imageTool Use Is Just a Trick of the MindOrangutans at Miami zoo use iPads to communicateInsightful Problem Solving in an Asian ElephantCrow Makes ToolsCrow Makes Wire Hook to Get FoodWhy Do Dolphins Carry Sponges?We are not alone — the discovery of dolphin languageTool Use Found in OctopusesTool using in antsTool use by the forest ant Aphaenogaster rudis: Ecology and task allocationShining in the DarknessRedesigning videoconferencing to increase conveyance of nonverbal communication“if an alien did have organs for sensing radio waves, first of all, they’d probably be really big. Radio is a form of light, not dissimilar to the visible light that our eyes detect, but at much longer wavelengths. Radio is not the same as sound, it IS light, so ‘watching radio’ isn’t that odd of a concept.” — Nicole Gugliucci (@NoisyAstronomer)How Radio Waves are ProducedEssential Radio AstronomyBaboons can learn words?The Dolphin in the MirrorCrow uses sequence of three toolsChimp CognitionVirtual Reality for Animals reveals secrets of the brain Can UX get my cat to water a houseplant?The Alex FoundationThinking AnimalsThe Search for Extraterrestrial IntelligenceProprioceptionBicameralismFuture FriendlyUnderstanding Media: The Extensions of ManThea Artemis Kinyon Boodhoo or simply Thar Kibo

Just got a simple email from Medium.com. I hate getting emails. This one made me smile. Here it is:This, my readers, is how a GREAT message is written. Startups like Medium and Slack are doing a great work thinking more about the feelings of its users. A Brazilian digital nomad, that likes to cook, code, sales, and help startups.Developers may not need to blog; but here your words are not wasted.

I dont know who was the first person who came up with this glass bottle vs plastic squeeze bottle metaphor for UI vs UX. I will go out on a limb and say HE KNOWS NOTHING ABOUT UX !! This is wrong and I am seeing this image so many times on the internet, especially on LinkedIn. It make me pull my hair now. The IT industry needs to understand UI vs UX and examples like these are the exact opposite. The painful truth is I see more and more “designers” reinforce these images with comments like ‘never seen a better example’.The above image is from the account of the CMO of a UI prototyping startup. He should be evangelising the right way. Not with examples like these.As long as I can remember, after entering the design world (Circa 2007) this has been raging argument. UI vs UX. I have seen hundreds of metaphors been thrown around. But it still remains a fundamental faux pas in the IT industry. Since a lot of people are more comfortable discussing cars than cognitive loads involved in interpretations of metaphors, I will try to use that ….UI is the “interface” or a tool that you can use to deal with systems that you dont share a communication method with. The interface becomes the communication tool. Can you talk to a car and tell it to reduce the number of revs in neutral gear ? I dont think so. (Unless of course you’re Tony Stark and have Jarvis) But there is a section of the engine which has a groove. A screwdriver of appropriate size can fit in that groove and then rotating that component tells the engine to reduce or increase the number of revs. The groove in the engine AND the screwdriver together is the interface between you and the engine/car.UX is the experience. A non-physical, ethereal concept. It depends on a whole lot of things other than the interface itself. For eg the user, the type of engine, the size of engine, the expectations of the user from the car, the type of car (Dakar rally four wheeler vs a Jaguar sedan), etc.In this case the experience is the moments when the car is standing still and the engine is running, for eg at a traffic light. You might want to have a higher or lower rev rate for a variety of reasons, some important practical things like easier to move when at a higher gear or trivial things like some people want to get enough vibrations to know whether the car is on or off (like my mom*).You can’t take a picture of an experience. But you can take a picture of things that enable an experience or a user experiencing something. It’s like saying I have taken a picture of the “aerodynamicity” of the car. No, you took a photo of the car’s body which is aerodynamic.The analog to the picture I have posted in the beginning in terms of vehicles will be this : Both of these have an experience associated with them They have different interfaces (for manoeuvring or getting into these vehicles) and completely different experiences.UI != UX , maybe this will be little more clear to people in the IT industry.Another famous example I see again and again on linkedin which is equally wrong is this one below.Again the area labelled user experience is actually ‘user behaviour’ which is a very different thing from user experience. The part labelled design is indeed design …. but that road wasn’t designed independently, it was designed together with the rest of the park. The user behaviour which is different from the intended behaviour shows that the park wasn’t designed keeping in mind the users real needs. I do believe that this image has some potential but that label needs to read. “This is what happens when you don’t do user research”The user experience aspect in the above image (the park trail) can be tremendously different on different days. For eg a day after light rain the first person to cross the path will have the experience illustrated below.Which is not a very pleasant thing to go through. And god forbid someone slips and falls into the mud, waste of an entire day I presume.There goes the long rant , but as a UX professional I cant help feeling enraged over such misleading posts and worse still other designers endorsing them.I am not frodo ... I am legolas meets rocky balboa who looks like a tall kaiser soze.Reviews, journeys and analysis about using Indian websites, apps and services. Also thoughts and writings by Indian UXers/Design Thinkers.

Over the past few months we have reviewed some amazing UX books — from detailed guides on creating user personas to a comedian’s take on online dating interfaces. We’ve tried to cover a broad spectrum of topics, and, for the most part, we have stuck to the positive. We’ve only reviewed books we appreciated and loved. However, while there are plenty of marvelous and inspiring UX books in the world, there are also some useless, annoying, or downright disturbing ones too.So this is a list of books we’d rather you not read. Or, if you feel you really must read them, then we’d like you to read them with a grain of salt. What they all have in common is the oversimplification of User Experience and what it means to be a designer. Yes, to be *great* at UX you need a little bit of that pixie dust and moxie and an ability to hone the zeitgeist of tech culture. But, you also have to be a scientist. And it helps if you are a decent human being. These books either downplay the need for rigorous science or are too cavalier about treating users like numbers or cattle rather than the thinking, feeling people they are.So with that, here is a short list of books that we really can’t recommend.This book is actually excellent in a number of interesting and provocative ways. Dr. Thaler and Dr. Sunstein are both experts in the field of behavioral economics and have advised both former and current presidents in their design of governmental policies. In this book they provide a thorough look at human behavior and psychology quirks like the endowment effect, gambler’s fallacy, and irrational escalation. They then show, through a long list of examples, how these quirks can be used in design to influence people. They show how simple design changes can encourage people to invest more in their 401k retirement plans. They show how a rearrangement of food in a cafeteria can help people make healthier lunch decisions. And they show how good defaults can ensure more people are potential organ donors. Truly, it’s a book that should be of interest to UX’ers everywhere. (Then why is it on this list of horrible, no good, very bad, UX books? I’m getting there.)The book takes a turn for the worst when they introduce their guiding philosophy: libertarian paternalism. Libertarian paternalism goes something like this: You, Mr. Designer-of-things, are in a position of power. You can influence users/customers/citizens/lesser-people into making decisions you want them to make by using psychology quirks and, essentially, tricking them. You don’t want to be evil (right?), so you should do these two things:The problem I have at this point of this book is that it seems like Thaler and Sunstein introduce libertarian paternalism, dust off their hands, and act like the moral concerns of being a designer-of-things has been taken care of. They never address…Overall this books needs a critical dose of critical theory. And if you really must read it, please also read a few While “Nudge” at least tries to take on some of the moral concerns behind using psychology tricks in design, Hooked has no morals at all. As the title implies, this book tries to be your guide to getting users “hooked” (ie. addicted) to your totally-rad “killer” app. It is upfront about what a designer’s supposed motivation is (clicks, conversions, and money), and advocates that using design patterns like rewards, notifications, and gamification can help you get users hooked and begging for more.However, if you are interested in using rewards, notifications, and gamification (which are perfectly fine design patterns when used for morally good reasons), there are other books that do it better. For instance, try First of all, Mr. Stocks, go learn about objectification. Please, just watch the short video, In general, there is nothing wrong with this book apart from the fact that is is practically a complete waste of time for anyone who actually does UX. It teaches you how to go from just being hired to design a website, to creating something that can then be passed on to programmers as the finished product. Oh, and by following what Mr. Stocks provides as his 5 different stages of design, what comes out at the end should be pretty “sexy.” Stocks provides pointers to many of the tools that he uses, and some of his best practices for keeping the customer happy. All of these are good things to think about when doing UX.The problem I have with the book is that most of it was just common sense. Anyone in interface design could write the book. The book gives the unspoken promise that it will help you take your ho-hum designs and make them look ready for the ball. But, unfortunately, the book fails on that promise. The book doesn’t give you enough information about all of the little things that go into making a design work really well. For example, how can you design text heavy pages and still make them “sexy”? Answering these kinds of questions would had been so much more useful than most of the book.If you are going to write a whole book on how you can bring the sexy sexy into the unsexy unsexy, you had better be sporting a whole lot more than broad-stroke advice.We are probably going to get crucified for putting anything Don Norman writes on this list. But, it has to be done. I have read just about everything Dr. Norman has written. And, for all of you who didn’t know, Dr. Norman wrote a whole boat load on the topic of cognitive errors before he ever got to errors in the user interface back in the 70s. My love is deep and abiding for his work.However, this book is the pits. What Norman does brilliantly is to deconstruct a really difficult topic down into understandable chunks and then explain how to design those chunks into something usable. That is his bread and butter. The problem is that with future technology, you can’t do the second half of the formula because the technology or interface just isn’t around yet. So the book is essentially a whole lot of posturing and thought experiments that aren’t engaging or useful. There are a handful of books that do it so much better in UX, but if you really want to get serious about future tech, go read a Anyone who has taken or teaches a HCI / UX methods class should probably avoid this book as it might cause tantrums, fist shaking, and angry heaving. Having a lot of theory and rigor under my belt made this book more than a little painful.The nice thing I can say is that I thought it was really well written and great for anyone not wanting to publish or reuse the data gathered. If you use the methods in this book and then you are having to defend them, point out the window and say, “Oh my goodness did you see that?” and then run from the room. So for businesses doing on-the-fly analysis — great. But anyone trying to truly understand users or the methods to gather user data this book should probably be passed for more meaningful reading.In fact, it is books like this that makes people think that UX and HCI are fuzzy sciences. There are scientifically validated methods of gathering data about users that are easy, fast, and repeatable. There are also some that take a very long time. The methods in this book are fast but not necessarily good. If you are looking for a better read, Shahtab Wahid wrote our What would you add to our list of horrible, no good, very bad UX books?And if you loved one or more of these books, feel free to tell us why we are horrible, no good, very bad people for putting them on this list.Freelance UX Designer, Researcher,  Content Strategist in Pittsburgh, PA.People know us. We are important. We have many UX books and our homes smell of coffee and usability studies.

Conhecer e entender seu usuário é, além de fascinante, a melhor — e talvez única — maneira para criar soluções realmente eficientes e fazer mudanças ou atualizações que acertem em cheio nas necessidades do seu público.Esse conhecimento é algo que não cessa nunca. O mercado muda o tempo inteiro. As pessoas, então, nem se fala. O que era tendência em 2013 já deixou de ser faz tempo. E o que uma pessoa queria há uma hora atrás, pode ter se perdido para sempre nos labirintos da memória, por culpa de um zumbido de abelha.A melhor forma de se antecipar aos momentos, ou mesmo de dançar em sincronia com o ritmo das mudanças, é prestando Desde que conhecemos o aplicativo, há dois anos, não conseguimos pensar em uma ferramenta mais completa, que atenda dos objetivos simples aos mais complexos. De ações básicas a testes A/B.A gente utiliza o Kissmetrics para analisar o uso de aplicativos e sites web. Essa avaliação é feita com base em “eventos” e “trilhas”, definidos e criados pela equipe de desenvolvimento.Na prática, funciona mais ou menos assim: eu, hipoteticamente falando, crio os eventos A ferramenta é extremamente rica e oferece muitos recursos. O Kissmetrics permite, além das análises de trilhas, fazer testes A/B e comparar facilmente a jornada dos usuários e conversões.Ele também disponibiliza dados importantes do usuário, como resolução da tela, versão do navegador, idioma padrão e até a localização. Se eu quiser, posso acompanhar, ao vivo, todos os passos do usuário dentro da minha solução, ver todos os eventos que estão acontecendo e quais usuários estão envolvidos neles.Essas informações permitem a antecipação de dificuldades e oportunidades na ferramenta. Sem falar que o Kissmetrics é uma super mão amiga na hora de validar novas propostas de interação.Se você tem um produto SaaS, por exemplo, o Kissmetrics pode te ajudar a descobrir respostas que o Google Analytics ainda não consegue. Entender o comportamento do usuário e como ele interage com a sua aplicação te dá oportunidades de melhorar conversões e até o relacionamento com o seu público.Você consegue visualizar a história de cada pessoa dentro da sua solução, independente de onde a interação aconteça.O Kissmetrics acaba com as decisões motivada por achismos. A análise de métricas torna as definições de design muito mais exatas. Isso é bom não só para a aplicação em si, mas também para embasar melhor as conversas com o cliente.Além disso, ele facilita a priorização de O Kissmetrics tem funcionalidades muito interessantes. Da facilidade de visualizar a parte de métricas à possibilidade de assistir ao vivo o que os usuários estão fazendo, muita coisa pode ser feita.Mas a gente chama atenção para uma nova funcionalidade, chamada Engage. Com ela, você pode, a partir de um evento, criar um retorno para o usuário. Se, por exemplo, o usuário estiver em uma tela X e clicar em “ajuda”, é possível abrir uma caixa de diálogo e já sugerir os artigos mais indicados para aquele assunto.A única queixa que temos sobre o Kissmetrics é o preço, que varia de $200 até $2.000 por mês. Sabemos que é uma ferramenta cara, mas se sua empresa pode arcar com os custos, vale muito a pena.Se você ainda não usa nenhuma ferramenta de métricas, dificilmente vai começar pelo Kissmetrics, ainda que ele seja, atualmente e na nossa opinião, a melhor ferramenta de métricas do mercado. Afinal, é um investimento considerável.Por isso, como alternativa, indicamos o Estamos sempre em busca de ferramentas que, de alguma forma, facilitem nosso cotidiano de trabalho. Imagino que você também. Pensando nisso, resolvemos compartilhar os achados que encontramos por aí e trazer pra cá, uma vez por mês, com um review de alguma ferramenta que usamos, aprovamos e recomendamos.Esperamos que você goste e que compartilhe com a gente sua opinião: se gostou ou não gostou, usou ou não usou, usaria ou não usaria, etc. Se tiver alguma sugestão de aplicativos para testarmos, também será muito bem-vinda! (:Se você ainda não encontrou a ferramenta que precisava ou está em busca de novas, pode gostar de ler:Desenvolvemos aplicativos web e mobile. Conversamos sobre aplicativos bacanas, novidades no mundo da tecnologia e ux. 

As students of BDW, our learning objective is ultimately user experience. Our teachers are artists and masters of creating outcomes. They craft the emotions that people take away from an experience. Their lessons are as much on empathy as they are code or design. But, explaining UX and the BDW program is difficult. For something that deals its currency in emotion, UX seeks to engineer an affinity toward something. When I try to describe this concept to people outside of my small program, it feels like I am pointing to air. Looking around, UX in technology is extremely prominent, as almost everyone I see is on a smart phone. But for me, the concept of UX permeates more than technology.I like to think of UX in terms of an evolution. User experience is the record that indicates how our relationship with the world around us has changed. In his book My point is not that we are necessarily getting away from this kind of anthropomorphizing behavior, we are creating a thousand different apps and devices that have been tested (hopefully) to make individuals feel a certain way. In an economy that doesn’t give a fuck about the dumb shit that has been push marketed to us, we are actually starting to create tangible experiences. Frankly, I can’t believe people are not in the streets freaking out about this more! I am literally shaking as I write this because of the potential I believe this holds! The fact that I could give that to another human being makes me feel intimate as a stranger. It makes me feel vulnerable and responsible and hungry to see the world through their eyes.This yearlong program at BDW is in itself an engineered experience. On almost a weekly basis I have had conversations with members of my cohort where they described feeling a way that I truly believed was unique to me. Most of these conversations have centered on insecurities. When a dear cohort member mentioned questioning what he was doing in the program after a particularly tough coding class, I admitted to him that I had gone home to cry in the shower that evening. After hearing my voice shake during a presentation, another cohort member pitched a prototype for a wearable that would allow me to feel their heartbeat. The heartbeat would serve as the reminder that they were there, sharing the experience.Cohort 7 is a competitive group. I have watched people defend their ideas in a way that might seem unreasonable to an outsider. We push each other and hold respective viewpoints accountable at every level. But, there is also a collective feeling of unbridled excitement. When a good idea is presented the air in our classroom changes, people lean forward and ideas start snowballing. It’s a feeling that keeps me up till 2AM. I know my cohort members are awake and furiously working on ideas too because they have texted me enthusiastically in those hours. In those moments when I feel that shared experience, whether in our brick classroom or behind our respective screens. I absolutely wouldn’t miss a minute of this shared C7 experience.Thoughts and stories from BDW, a 50 week graduate program dedicated to re:designing, re:imagining and re:working the digital world.

Primer is the best learning app ever. The perfect combination of great concept and great ux.Founder  Ceo of Versum Network a YouTube Multi-Channel Network. Entrepreneur. Media author.

過去に体験したことのブログを今だったらどう書くかやってみようということで書いてみる。今から約三年前 (2012/07/15) 、渋谷にある「イケメン外国人執事がいる執事喫茶」と噂だった 過去にはただ感想を述べてただけだったので、今回は普通の喫茶店と比べた際に各タッチポイントで なんの参考にもならないだろうけど、ゴール達成のためにこういうお店はどういった施策をなんでとって、どのようにおこなっているかネタとして読んでもらえると嬉しいです。事前情報→入店→オーダー→待ち時間→料理提供→終了上記のタッチポイントに分けて紹介。通常であればWebサイト等でユーザーにアピールすることと言えば「特別なコーヒー豆を使っている」だとか、「創業以来の技術で〜」など歴史ついて語り語り安いチェーン店とは味が異なるポイントを言及し、ちょっと高めのコーヒーを販売するだろうが WebサイトのそしてWebサイトに執事店員さんの経歴（執事大学）がなぜか載っていてすごいオーラがあり、期待値高まる。通常であれば「いらっしゃいませ」で終わる入店。お店が忙しかったりすると入り口で立たされて店員が慌てて駆けつけてくるなんてのもざらではない。淡々と人数や喫煙の有無を聞かれて席へ通されるところ、 （仮定の）を達成すべく、日常から大きく外れた接客で一気に入店と同時に外国人執事が数人勢揃いで「これができるのも、 店内はテーブル席20人分と天蓋みたいなのに囲まれたソファー席が8人分くらいのスペース、広くはないけどそこそこ人数入るお店だった。行った当時、もちろん執事以外は男は自分一人なのでかなり浮いている状況だった。通常であれば大きな声を出して呼んだり、ボタンを押して呼ぶ。稀に声出して呼んでも全然来なくて恥をこともあるのがオーダー。これだけでも素晴らしいがゴール達成のためにちょっと余計とも思われるが下記のこともしていた。ゴール達成には必要な要件なのであろう。個人的に喫茶店で店員同士がぺちゃくちゃ話してると呼び出しづらいし、印象悪かったりするのだが執事は待ち時間においても一切そういった素振りを見せずにお嬢様でいさせることに注力をする。通常であれば淡々と料理が運ばれるシーン。お高いお店だと「これがなんとかでー」と説明してくれることもある。それはそれでとても嬉しく、料理がより一層楽しめるのでありがたいが、 料理を運ぶ準備ができたらテーブルの周りに人数分の執事が集まり、「しかも料理のお皿の下にチョコレートソースで一人一人の名前が書いてあるという。いつ僕の名前を知ったのかわからなく、思わず「わぁ」と乙女な声を上げてしまったことを覚えている。(みんなprincessだけど一人prince)そして帰り際にって言ってどこからもなくキャンディをみんなにくれた。(さっきまでみんなの荷物を持っていてくれてたので、リアルにどこに隠し持ってたかわからなく、たかがパインアメなのに感動する）こんな感じで執事喫茶を後にしました。トータル的に男の僕でも面白い時間を過ごせました。僕は男なので100%はわからないけど、細部 （= 現実に意識が戻りそうになるポイント）にまで気をつけ、なおかつお嬢様気分に浸れるような演出をそこで施し、を達成する。すごい空間だったのではないかと思います。仕事に疲れた女性は一度行くと面白いかもしれません。（今日行ったお店：「BUTLERS CAFE」 とあるUIデザイン会社で楽しいことをしてる人。

General Assembly is the best place to learn UX! www.generalassemb.ly

It’s 2:45pm on a Monday UX Feedback Session:Another tab?That’s the baggage every new feature idea carried when hitting our UX Feedback loop. Because we’re a highly configurable Enterprise SaaS application, our customers use Bullhorn and its integrations in a variety of flavors.As if juggling multiple personas across multiple business lines was challenging enough for our UX team, we created the toughest problem for ourselves by having such an extensible platform. Today’s platforms in the Enterprise separate the players from the startups trying to disrupt the space. Despite how niche of a market your B2B SaaS serves, there will always be businesses who have more processes, different workflows or the need to layer in their “secret sauce.” Put yourself in the shoes of your buyer: That pitted UX up against a challenge that felt like it got worse and worse by the feature.The feature that set everything on fire was Enhanced Reporting. Out-of-the-box CRM Reporting became a microcosm of all these configurability challenges, bundled up into a cute little line or bar or pie.Various people. Various data. Various views.So we went to the whiteboard. Here’s how the conversation progressed:… 264. Great, that should cover a field sales rep [personal #16] use case. So here’s the solution to all our problems:The assumptions we made piled up over time. For every wrench of configurability someone threw, we thought we solved it in an elegant manner.However, these wrenches were short-sighted and limited to the finite number of wrenches we tackled. The problem wasn’t the wrenches. It was all the wrenches we couldn’t tackle.It became glaring during the concept testing phase, exposed by users looking at the mockup and having a difficult time figuring out how they’d use it.Our idea was to design a UI so future-proof that feature enhancements actually added to the User Experience. The hypothesis began as a library of pre-built widgets that users could arrange any way they’d like.So we started with a blank canvas:The key here is the “This “Add Card” button And what that allowed us to do as a UX team is focus on the content of the cards and what question they’re trying to answer.Below is our first card, “Opportunities by Stage”Notice the four icons in the upper right corner:Every card has the same buttons in the same place with the same UX. If a user knows how to do it in one place, they know how to do it throughout the entire application.Here’s the toggle to a visualization (in a low frame rate GIF):I noted above that the graph toggle “solves for balanced visual design and appeal” which is code for demo candy. Realistically this pie graph isn’t entirely useful — it was more of an afterthought as a way to “make it look pretty” because the focus was still on designing the entire UI framework.Now that the framework is evolving and available across Leads, Opportunities, Clients, and Contacts, It’s been dubbed as “Director of Product Design  UX at BullhornWe’re helping businesses deliver an incredible customer experience by bringing Product Design to the Enterprise

Cruising down the carpool lane of the freeway, singing along to I’m not an enthusiastic driver, but I’ve got the car that fits everyone, so here I am. I’ve never driven in to Disneyland, so I can already imagine the unpleasant but necessary trouble that awaits at my destination. Surely thousands of people are all arriving, as we are, before 8am to enter the park as soon as it opens. The traffic must be crazy. The parking must be a zoo.Soon, a freeway sign for the Disneyland Drive exit appears, and look! I can exit straight from the carpool lane. How easy. Surely when I get off though, everything will be backed up, since everyone and their aunt will be arriving at this time.Not so! We express across a gently sloping bridge, skipping the traffic of non-vacationers on a road below us, and feeling very special. The unique bridge and its prim lampposts add audible excitement to the car. My traveling companions know they are arriving somewhere special.When we descend the bridge we come upon what must be 10 lanes of ticket booths. There’s a couple cars in each, but the line moves quickly. $17 bucks for parking, ouch. But now comes the part I dread even more. The tight spaces and impatient drivers of parking lots stress me out, especially with my car which we lovingly compare to a boat due to its cumbersome size and humble maneuverability. Instead of winding around searching for parking though, I am carefully lead in procession with the other drivers from my ticket booth lane and expressed up a ramp to the 5th floor. Tight channels of cones make a wrong turn impossible and at any mildly confusing spot, a cast member is stationed, smiling and pointing the way. At the end of the line everyone pulls in one by one next to each other, with a cast member waving you forward to assure you you make it into the spot smoothly.Now that it’s time to get out of the car, I see that my parking pass (which I can take with me), has a spot for circling my floor and position: Daisy Duck Level, C7. I don’t have a pen, but I’m reminded to write it down in my phone.An express escalator takes us to the ground where it becomes clear that we are actually a sizable distance from the park entrance. But walking straight forward, in what once again, is the only way to go, takes us to a staging area to board a tram. The trams have such capacity and frequency that we only wait a few moments before we’re whisked away on our journey. When we pull up to the tram stop in Downtown Disney we’ve completed our parking journey from open road to final destination, and what a joy it was. Every pain point I worried about was addressed, and beyond that, made excessively pleasant.So what are the UX takeaways?Parking at Disneyland isn’t just swinging your car into a stall. It’s also the exit from the freeway beforehand that knows most guests are carpooling families and groups, and the tram ride after that recognizes that remote parking stresses out vacationers who can’t waste precious trip time.The Disneyland parking structure experience gives you one path and one path only to accomplish your goal. Talk about a low cognitive load. You can’t take a wrong turn. Getting lost is bewildering and Disney has eliminated that as an option.By funneling everyone in a predetermined path, not only does Disney prevent traffic from forming, they eliminate the stress of choice. The anxiety of dad circling for the perfect parking and mom yelling, “The one we just passed was just fine!” cannot come to pass. Only the gently guided journey to your family’s space will transpire. One space. No questions. No differences of opinion among stakeholders. Ahhh, peaces reigns.Park goers bouncing with excitement could easily burst forth from their cars and rush to the escalators without giving second thought to their parking location. Disney mitigates this fun loving but short-sided behavior by printing parking receipts with structure labels (i.e. A3, Mickey Level) you can circle. As the driver examines whether the receipt should be displayed on the dash, he sees this space-noting system and can utilize it or his own method.Disney protects parking users from hassle and headache at the end of an exhausting day by anticipating and addressing their needs. The theme park also reduces their cognitive load by moving to paper one of the many pieces of vital information they must hold in their head.Hmm which way should we exit the parking structure? There is one big walkway that obviously leads to the main way down. Of course this structure has many stairways down (fire safety!), but the “right” stairwell has many visual clues to its optimal status. Ahhh, how do we get to the park? Coming down the escalators, you can see the tram staging area laid out below you. And, exiting the escalators, should you somehow miss the importance of the trams as the next step, you have no choice but to walk forward towards the staging area. Left and right is fenced off and behind you is clearly a dead end wall of bathrooms.When designing digital user flows, you will often need to provide alternates to the main flow. The lesson here is that those secondary actions should be adequately deemphasized to benefit the 90% who want to frictionlessly progress to the main goal.Whether you are serving eager families on a special vacation or a weary professional signing up for a newsletter, know that you are their shepherd through this experience. Your pre-thought and careful attention to trimming down the amount of thinking, deciding, and remembering they must contend with in a day matter. Not only will this effort boost their opinion of you and your service (and increase their likelihood of continuing to utilize your service), it will also add a little more serenity and delight to the world. Cheers!Unlike the deadly ninjas that infiltrate the darkness of your dreams, we bring you great articles about user experience, web design, and technology!

I’ve just finished up After finishing an initial prototype of your website redesign, the course dives into visual design and then rounds it out by discussing the logistics of design in a team environment.You take what you’ve learned and build a real mockup of your website redesign.With the help of my mentor, I begin experimenting with I was also exposed to different tools like As I began expanding on my prototypes, I quickly realized there are a lot of little details with the products I use that I never think about that are crucial to my usage and enjoyment. My mentor was particularly helpful in this regard, highlighting things I overlooked or could change.Thanks to the course, I have a much better idea of product design, along with the tools designers use and how they think. I’d recommend it to anyone interested in the field but has no background.I’ve include images of my prototypes from Sketch below. For me, the next steps will be to actually build this app and continue to experiment with the world of product design and development.Product 

Over the summer, I interned at Rackspace in San Antonio, Texas. It was a fantastic experience and I learnt a lot from various people from different disciplines. I have heard from others that companies often don’t give their interns important real projects to work on. But this was not the case at Rackspace, where I was treated as a regular employee and enjoyed a good amount of visibility in the company which fostered my growth as a designer and helped me learn a lot through good critique and feedback. I can’t believe how much I learnt in the short span of 12 weeks. Here are some of my learnings from the design internship at Rackspace:When I was working as a UI designer in India more than a year ago, I always looked at design as a way to just solve problems. However, through the HCI/d master’s program (at IU) and my internship at Rackspace, I learnt that solving problems is just a part of the designer’s job. Asking questions is key and a very important skill for a designer. For example, when the product manager came to me to fix a date picker, I started questioning every little element’s presence and why certain labels were named the way they were. It turned out that the problem wasn’t that the date picker was confusing to use on it’s own but also because of how the data it was filtering below it which had problems. Lesson — The problem isn’t always where we are looking.When presenting my design solution to the head of design at Rackspace, he said — “Working in a large enterprise company taught me that real data can be super ugly more often than not. Pretty interfaces don’t always end up being pretty in the real world because real data can make it look meaningless and downright stupid. Designing with real data not only gives a feel of what an interface looks like, but also helps us uncover some underlying problems with the design problem itself.Design is a lot about ‘making’ products. Each product has a million minute details which brings about a seamless experience for the person using it. Even when you have iterated on your low fidelity sketches, the real product comes out when iterating on the actual visuals of the product. At Rackspace, the moment I jumped into the high fidelity mocks and started creating minor variations; I could see the flaws in my vision (pun unintended) and iterating in high fidelity is what made the product more refined than how it was in the beginning. These ‘minor’ variations made the design invisible and led to newer features.The word simple can mean a lot of things to different people. As a designer, my first task is to identify and understand the problem at hand. In an effort to understand it thoroughly ourselves, we often oversimplify and spoon feed our users which results in two things — unnecessary information and annoyance. When I was asked to design an input field in a settings panel, I tried to replace the existing text entry field with a step counter, presets and spelled out whatever I thought was necessary to make the field look ‘simple’ and obvious. It turned out that ‘I the designer’ was the only one who didn’t get how this particular setting worked. Hence, I ended up designing something too obvious which led to spoon feeding the user (who were Linux Admins). To put it in another way, I ended up designing for myself. In fact, when I tested this interface with a couple of users, I found that the new input method slowed them down. I learnt a few things here:During several demo sessions, once I was done showing the design; someone or the other would say — ‘This is confusing’. This someone was a different person during different sessions — a product manager, a senior designer, a developer or a project manager. These people are key members in the team who make the product possible. When trying to explain my designs to these team members, I noticed a pattern — I was more successful in explaining the design when I walked them through my thought process by placing it in a story.Neither do I have innate storytelling skills nor do I have any practice telling stories. And yet, even the simplest story helped me explain my design solution better. By talking about what a user might be trying to do in a particular context and how element X in our design will let them move forward  make their life easier; I could help my team members think from the user’s perspective and empathise with them. This led us to have a far more engaging conversation than what a defensive argument might have led to.Also, stories needn’t always be about the user. It could also be about the people you’re working with. In the real world, there are various kinds of constraints — time constraints, business constraints and technical constraints. To me, approaching a design discussion by communicating the decisions informed by a careful consideration of other’s context and constraints is also a form of storytelling. If you want people to understand where you’re coming from, you must try to do the same too. And that’s where storytelling helped. It helped me communicate the fact that I had empathy for my co-workers too and understood their context and constraints.I have often heard this phrase in many other posts by design practitioners — usability testing is a validation of your assumptions. I didn’t quite get it until I was testing a confirmation pop-up/modal for a delete function. The confirmation modal had an additional option — a checkbox to delete secondary data linked to the primary data. This option was present because not all of the associated/linked data was shown in the same space as the main data. I worked on redesigning the modal and came up with a couple of alternative ways to present the same options. We debated whether we need an additional option at all in the first place. I created quick mockups of 3 different designs and took it to our users for testing. Upon testing, we found that some users were confused by the designs. They specifically disliked the Upon further investigation and testing, we found that the problem was not with the idea of deleting all data. The problem was with how users entered data into the system itself. This totally shook our basic assumption of where the problem was. I was feeling low because of my inability to understand the problem; but as I thought more about it, I was incredibly delighted by this finding. The problem which was unearthed by testing a simple pop-up was far more complex and impactful than we thought.So the lesson is to know our assumptions, understand the problem thoroughly and base the tasks for our users around that understanding.Constraints are good. They might be limiting, but they also challenge us to think of new ways to do things without disturbing existing patterns. Throughout my summer internship, I was challenged by the constraints of the UI style guide. How could I keep all constraints in mind while trying to solve problems which had never been solved before?As I progressed through my internship, I managed to propose new patterns that fit in with the existing design patterns instead of criticising the limitations imposed by the style guide. This approach was also better keeping business, technical and time constraints in mind. It was better to come up with a new way to show a particular information than to suggest a change in existing patterns and expect it to be changed across the product portfolio; eating up everyone’s time and resources. The new proposed pattern might slowly make it’s way into various parts of the product, eventually replacing old patterns.Whenever I am imposed with constraints, I remember this quote by Jared Spool:Designing for expectations pushes us to challenge constraints while still embracing them.Student of HCI/d at Indiana University. Recently interned at Rackspace as an interaction designer. Love  and Cricket (the game). 

Quora is a product that I’ve been using for about 3 years now, and I love it. But I wanted to see if it could be even better. So I went out to test the mobile experience of Quora with this introduction, along with two tasks:I wanted to see if there were any points of friction for a first time user experience.Here’s the process 86% of users went through when trying to ask a question on Quora:A specific case involved three community college students who were cheating on their History exam. When I approached them about Quora, they went ahead and asked a question on their exam:In another case, a user pointed out that the ‘Write Answer’ function was available on both the ‘Home’ and ‘Write’ tabs.The value that Quora brings is its community of writers who specialize in specific subjects. User’s immediately recognized this upon seeing the bio’s of people who had answered previous questions, even comparing it to Yahoo Answers as being much more credible.But, first time users aren’t coming into Quora to write answers to everyone’s questions.And the fact that it takes 3 steps to ask a question presents a major usability issue.The crux of the issue is the search box itself. The magnifying glass screams search. Yet the placeholder text prompts the user to ‘Ask Quora.’Remove the magnifying glass Many users, throughout their Quora experience, will expand the topics that they follow. The same way we accept new friends on Facebook, follow additional influencers on Twitter, keep up with different cities on Snapchat, and read stories outside our followed tags on Medium.In order to expand, there needs to be an easier way of exploring different topics. Quora has a wealth of knowledge and its disappointing when new users can’t find this additional value within 2 clicks.When users clicked edit on the dropdown menu, they expected the option of adding new topics after clicking ‘Edit’. Users can delete topics through the ‘Edit’ function. They should be able to add topics as well.In addition, the problem originates from the contradicting magnifying glass and ‘Ask Quora’ placeholder.Watch the gif again.After realizing the dropdown menu doesn’t help too much, users go straight to the search box. Why? Because the magnifying glass is directly next to the dropdown menu. What does the magnifying glass represent? Part 1 of creating a better mobile experience for Quora was user testing. The research presented that there is some room for improvement for the mobile platform. Part 2 involves creating prototypes based on this feedback  testing these new flows with similar users.I do not represent Quora or work for Quora in any way. I’m just a someone who hasn’t started college yet. So instead, I’m doing cool things with products that I love. Inspired by Econ + UX 

Tracking Point is building one of the deadliest rifles in the world. They can achieve that thanks to… UX. Yes, I also feel weird.Tracking Point is building one of the deadliest rifles in the world. They can achieve that thanks to… UX. Yes, I also feel weird.ºTo begin, as a sort of disclaimer if you haven’t read this post by In case you think this is another of those posts of what [insert your bullshit here] has to do/can teach us/etc about UX… or whatever, this is not. This is a thought fired (literally) by this article on The Verge.Although the article is quite extensive about the story behind the development of a product, I keep thinking about this video:Among all the possible topics that I could have ever imagined being tackled by UX this is the last one I could have ever thought of, and yet it makes total sense. Maybe it is because I’m too naive or maybe it is just because with all the ethical concerns surronding this industry but I can’t say how would I have approached the problem if someone tells me: “Can you review the user experience on firing a precision weapon?” Specially if I try to think about the metrics to evaluate any improvements. Targets hit? We all now what those ‘targets’ are going to look like in the real world and it is not nice to look at.But doing the effort of distancing myself a little bit from the topic itself and trying to look at it exclusively from an UX perspective I come up with a couple of thoughts:After all this, one last question remains in my head. Is there any one out there who thinks that this has nothing to do with UX? Either the answer is yes or no, I would love to hear your thoughts.UX Designer for Caplin. I design interfaces for stock brokers and traders. Learning to expect the un expected.

________________In The main advantage of full prototyping suite tools is that they allow for more robust interactions and state changes, since each element within the wireframe can be controlled individually rather than having to link to a whole new page to show changes. Obviously, the main disadvantage of this type of program is that it has a higher learning curve than the simpler hot spot based apps and if the designer (or their organization) already prefers a specific program for creating wireframes, it often can’t be integrated with the prototyping application. These programs also tend to be more expensive than hot spot based prototyping apps.The applications we will review that fit into this category are As I mentioned in To the first point, a process that include wireframing and testing as two distinct phases often lends itself to the first type of tools since the designer will have a full set of screens ready to link before starting prototyping and hotspot-based tools simplify the linking process. Hotspot-based prototyping also works well with sketches, since the designer can simply take a picture of what they’ve drawn and start linking the same way they would with a JPG or PDF created in a design program.Conversely, if wireframing and testing are occurring concurrently, a suite that allows the designer to execute the wireframes and prototype simultaneously may be preferable. It is also easier to go in and make changes with a fully integrated prototyping application based on testing feedback. With hotspot based tools, changes to the screen must be made in a separate program and then re-linked to the prototype.For websites and apps that do not contain a lot of complex interactions of transitions, hotspot applications may work best. The more robust and complicated state changes and interactions that full prototyping tools offer work best for websites and apps that are highly interactive or involve complex user flows. It is also possible to build responsive prototypes with these tools.The examples I mentioned are just a few of the UX prototyping tools that currently exist. UX design is a process that is continually evolving and as this process evolves, the tools available to designers evolve along with it. Each program has its own pros and cons, and what you decide to use will depend on what’s right for your project, client, and design team.Cause-Driven Brand Strategy  Interactive Design for Nonprofits, Education, and Social Innovation. 

If you have an interest in business strategy, you’ll probably have heard of lean. Lean is a business approach, most famously used by Toyota, designed to cut waste and inefficiency, while at the same time allowing a company to be flexible, innovative and customer focused. Lean has been applied to many businesses, from start-ups to established companies, and in many areas, from meetings to product creation. Lean UX by Jeff Gothelf takes the principles of lean and applies them to the world of design. If you want to be more efficient and more creative in your approach to design, read on for some highlights of this must read strategy book!Is your design team isolated from the rest of the company? A typical process involves a design team being briefed by someone else, and subsequently creating a product based on this second-hand information. If the design doesn’t work, it is then sent back for reworking, a process that can go on forever. Lean UX gets around this problem by putting designers to work with other employees right away, allowing the team to fix problems immediately and move the process along. Basically it’s a mix of design thinking, agile software development and lean start-up.Lean UX follows the familiar Build- Measure-Learn loop. Prototypes are turned out as fast as possible to test market assumptions early on. This early testing then generates feedback almost instantly, telling you what works and what doesn’t. This way, biased assumptions and weak ideas can be scrapped with little effect, freeing up the resources for stronger ideas to flourish.The first step in the Lean UX approach is to create your hypothesis. Once you have some assumption, your next task is to turn it into something testable by figuring out your desirable outcomes, personas and features you wish to offer to those personas. The author highlights the importance of testing assumptions, it’s wrong to assume that your customer will behave like you do, they will have very different attitudes.Secondly you need something to test. The most common approach is to create what is called a minimum viable product. The MVP is essentially the smallest thing you can make or smallest action you can take to test the validity of your product. For instance, say you want to start selling on-line fitness classes, a venture that is both time consuming and costly. You start by questioning the very idea of the classes, asking yourself, Finally it’s important to remember that a commitment to continuous product testing through customers is central to Lean UX. Doing so provides constant market feedback that helps prove or revise the hypothesis quickly. For instance, a common Lean UX strategy is to test your MVP once a week with 3–5 different customers. One customer opinion is interesting but 3–4 saying the same thing means you should take note.The web-driven economies of today have led to ever-decreasing product life cycles, as the continuous nature of software has made rapid product updates essential. To keep ahead of the competitors, it’s key to experiment constantly while seeking user feedback, tasks that Lean UX is perfectly suited to tackle through its collaborative approach. Collaboration can be as simple as ensuring enough space for white-boards that allow people to sketch things like personas and prototypes, and where team members can leave feedback and support. Whilst each team member has a core competency, such as design, research or development, each member can also contribute to other disciplines using their secondary skills and interests under the Lean UX approach, with faster outputs driving desired outcomes.Changing The Way You Shop Online // 

I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about error messages in apps; writing them, too. While there’s nothing fun about the worst case scenario, product people must consider the end to end user experience, including the “bad” — Fully fleshing out unhappy paths and their corresponding error messages can be the difference between a happy user and one who instantly deletes your app. Always allow time to solve for such use cases — your users will appreciate the forethought and be more likely to stick around.What am I missing? Let me know.Korean-born, Wisconsin-raised, Toronto-based writer

The Mystery of the Unlocked Door (a UX Halloween story)A mysterious thing happened to Betsy and her boyfriend Tom recently. It all started one evening when Betsy arrived home from work and found the garage side door unlocked. She figured Tom had left the door unlocked. So she told him to be more careful next time.Tom looked at her puzzled and replied: “I did lock the door. Are you sure it was unlocked?” This left Betsy wondering what had happened. She was 100% sure that the door was unlocked. Yet Tom was also 100% sure that he locked it. Betsy couldn’t find an explanation so she just let it go. Until a couple of days later….when it happened again.The same dialogue ensued with the same results: Betsy was sure the door was unlocked while Tom was sure he had locked it. This time Betsy decided to figure out what was happening. Either one of them was wrong or someone (or something) had been unlocking the door. Betsy did not believe in ghosts, but this mystery got her wondering.Betsy put on her detective hat and asked Tom a few questions. “Did you actually try turning the doorknob from outside, after closing the door, to feel if it was locked?” she asked. Tom replied: “No, I don’t see why I would need to do that. I saw that the door was locked.”Suddenly, Betsy remembered something about that doorknob. She had noticed how badly designed it was and had even used a picture of the doorknob as an example of bad design for one of her design classes. The doorknob is designed so that inside it looks locked (picture above) when in reality it is unlocked and vice versa. The design is counter intuitive and breaks the norm.Here is what the locked doorknob looks like if you look inside (picture below)And if you look outside (picture below), it always looks the same regardless of whether it is locked or not. In other words, there is no visual feedback. There are only two ways to make sure the doorknob is locked. Looking inside before closing the door (only if you know it will look the opposite than you expect). Or trying to turn the knob after closing the door to make sure it is locked.So Betsy figured out that Tom had interpreted the doorknob as locked just by looking at it and trusting that the knob followed normal conventions. He had assumed that because it looked locked it meant it was locked. He was not expecting it to be the opposite.“Mystery solved,” Betsy proclaimed after explaining things to Tom. “This was not a case of ghosts, but a case of bad design” she said.So this Halloween remember: if you encounter anything mysterious or difficult to explain you might be witnessing supernatural activity…. Or you are just being the victim of bad design.UX Designer and Researcher | Empathy-Driven Design (Psychology background). I believe in the power of human-centered design to create better user experiences.

The above exchange occurred last week when I told a potential partner about our free UX workshops that we’ve been doing for the last few months (People might not quite understand why we would do such a thing but it makes perfect sense for us.The Philippines is already known for amazing travel experiences. We want it to become known for amazing customer experiences too and actively sharing our knowledge for free with the rest of the country is our way of giving something back (and we’re not the only ones doing this either: Hi We see it as a “planting seeds” kind of approach. Remember the For us, it’s an investment in the future. Not just in our business but in the country as a whole. We genuinely believe that the more people understand each other and use that understanding to create solutions to real world problems, the better.This trend has already started, just look at local startups And through our free workshops and Human Centered Design services (Right now, we’re enjoying working with Filipino companies from every conceivable industry: from insurance companies to startups to telcos to BPOs to advertising agencies to development companies to the Philippine government and everything in between.Since January 2015, UXMNL has been part of the SEA-wide We’ve enjoyed every workshop so far and look forward to many more in the near future.If you’d like to request a free 2 hour UX Workshop, Not sure if you should get one? Here’s what some of our past attendees have said:Director of On Off Group. Specialising in Service Design. Website: 

This is not a new discussion. I always have a conversation about this among my friends. I remember that about two years ago, one of my UI designer friends told me that he made a career switch to be a UX designer. He said “most of my work is creating a better experience for the product.” UX was newly popular at that time. Simply said, UX means experience and UI means the interface.Back then, I didn’t know what the differences between UX and UI were. I thought they were the same. I started reading about it online, and through learning, my interest in this area grew.The image on the left, “User Experience vs Design Paths,” explains everything to understand about UX and design.“UX” essentially means “User Experience.” It is a study that is much more extensive and of a larger discipline than UI which majorly incorporates the interface as well as the frameworks and communications that support it.UX begins with a strong understanding of your user-base, producing “personas” for the overwhelming character sorts inside of your user-base, and then setting particular necessities for the current task.UX next sorts out your Information Architecture by creating an information stock and composes a strong data pecking order that helps a ton once the prototyping work starts. Pick the best prototyping strategy that will be both inexpensive and permit you to gather surveys by emphasizing a quick and simple design.The UX designer, more often than not, won’t give careful consideration to UI. Rather, they will work with either a visual designer or UI designer to clean up the visual implementation of the user experience.This was my impression before I started learning about UX more in-depth.After reading more and more, I tried to list down what activities inside UX practices:“UI” denotes User Interface and is the real design of project interfaces. These are the pixels that show up on the screen.There’s truly no reason for making assumptions regarding the matter of either UX or UI. To me, UI design feels more fun, since you are designing something cool.The UI designer is in charge of everything like how a web page or application shows up in the interface. This incorporates visuals like whether the tabs are blue or gray and angled or leveled. It also includes building the page design like deciding the placement of the login button is at the top due to its importance.I begin to believe it’s impractical to be a decent UI designer without having a grip on what UX means. Researching user conduct and behavior is a good practice for a UI designer to understand the goals and what determines the success of the project. At least some research needs to be conducted before starting the UI part.“Experience” is not as obvious as an “Interface”. UX designers attempt to study between which the utilization of processes to create a better experience. UX designer is responsible scoping out experiences for different kind of user. Basically, UI is a part of UX to create an experience.There are numerous methods performed by UX designers that aren’t reflected in the job scope of a UI designer. For example, gathering client examinations, making a data building design, or making client profiles and client stories.UX promotes everything that joins best practices. It is a comprehension of conduct and human brain science, solid correspondence and request abilities, and experience in applying these strategies in a manner that conveys the best result to achieve the best experience. Co-founder of wireframeapp.ioWe design and build web apps

Nowadays, your business does not have employees; your employees ARE your business. Bringing the wrong person onto your team can negatively affect culture, alter team dynamics, and even lead to the failure of a product.As a design focused recruiter who studied user experience, my perspective on this issue is a bit 2-sided, so I would like to share some of what I’ve learned over the past few years.Here are 4 things to be mindful of when hiring a UX designer:Are you looking for a UX researcher? Maybe you need someone who can execute on research and lo-fi wireframes, which they pass off to a UI/UX designer? Maybe you need a UI designer with some understanding of UX.That’s all great.But if you say you need someone to execute all research, IA, wire-framing, high fidelity prototyping and some front-end coding, you’re looking for a unicorn and chances are you’re shooting yourself in the foot.Consult with an experienced designer or a recruiter who understands design to discuss your current team structure, problem areas, goals and roadmap. This will help you decide who you really need, ultimately making the hiring process much smoother. Once you’ve defined the key aspects of the role you’re hiring for, such as team structure, types of deliverables, and level of oversight, you can map your candidates against these criteria, rather than just hiring off gut instinct.Often times, a startup would be better off hiring two designers with T-shaped skill sets, (deep skill in one area and some experience in others), rather than trying to find one designer to do it all.Not everyone with relevant experience will thrive in the same role.Let’s say your product is a B2C mobile travel application and you hire a designer who has designed five similar travel applications. Chances are they will not be very engaged with the work because it’s repetitive to them. Although they may perform at a high level for a few months, they often become disengaged with the work and can only think about a promotion or new opportunities.On the flipside, if you hire a designer who has worked on one successful B2C mobile appplication with similar interactions and constraints, but in a separate domain, chances are they will not only be engaged and motivated to do the work, but will also bring enthusiasm to your team and stay for a longer time. I’ve spoken to many hiring managers who look for close to a 100% match because they want to avoid training and mentoring someone. Plain and simple, this just isn’t an effective hiring strategy.Using what you now know about your ideal person, crafting a good job description is the next step.In a candidate driven market where referrals and social media are two of the biggest discovery channels, you have to make sure your company and role are both presented properly. As a recruiter, I have heard many candidates say they didn’t apply to a role because the job description turned them off, which is a negative reflection of the company.Your job description should include an UXers want to know about the problem they will be solving, how it will add to their skillset, what impact they will be making and whether or not they will be working with other designers. Make sure you are clear in communicating these in your description.No one person interviews the same as another, and frankly, not everyone is good at interviewing. Having a disorganized process can also reflect poorly on your company, turning candidates off in the process.Here are a few things you should be cognizant of before engaging in an interview:Interviewing is a skill that requires practice to become good at, so being cognizant of best practices is very important.Ensuring that you have a consistent hiring process can make the difference between hiring exceptional candidates and settling for mediocre candidates. Be clear with your needs and goals, create a plan, and execute.Looking for your next career move and want to learn more about what’s out there? We only match you with the best avaiable positions. Are you thinking of hiring a new team member? Make sure they are not a good but a perfect fit with your culture and goals. You can find me on You can also follow Motivate Design on Twitter discover // design // disrupt // 42Hire.com is the most shared hiring content

A few years ago, a highly successful software engineer became an entrepreneur because he had a problem — someone he loved needed treatment for a drug addiction. He embarked on a daunting journey that millions of Americans face each year — to find appropriate care at a reputable facility. However, the road was filled with uncertainty and pain points; there was no price transparency, no centralized place to research the facilities with unbiased reviews, and scads of liars running overpriced facilities while preying on desperate people just like him. But during the course of his research, he discovered that reputable treatment centers also struggled with certain things: they constantly had empty beds; they had difficulty sifting through referrals for appropriate patients; and it was a hassle to collect payments from insurance companies. At the end of his journey, the software engineer saw the opportunity to embark on a different kind of adventure. He could solve a market problem and at the same time help people with a personal problem about which he was very passionate. That’s how his startup was born; his idea to connect the right patients with the right kind of treatment centers through an online interface.Because his product had the potential to disrupt the marketplace,* he was able to gather a solid team and get investment capital.He developed relationships with reputable rehabilitation facilities. He developed a database for matching empty beds with the people who needed them.† He developed a way to vet each facility to ensure that only the best were included in the database. And, of course, he and his team developed a consumer-facing website for customer acquisition.* “Priceline Type Bed Auction Service Has Potential to Radically Transform Addictions Biz.” They didn’t leave anything to chance. They also conducted a couple of online surveys with people who had looked for treatment in the past. They hired public relations, marketing, and search-engine optimization (SEO) firms. They bought advertising in print and online publications; talked to industry experts; and found many business-side partners interested in their value proposition and who wanted to be a part of it.When the site went live, they ran numerous online advertising campaigns using Facebook and Google to promote the financial savings and data-rich reviews that customers could get by using their service. From these campaigns, only a small amount of traffic trickled to their home page and then bounced away. Sometimes, a user registered with the service.Sometimes, they even came back. But over the course of 18 months, no one booked a treatment center through their website.The software engineer’s team knew that whatever they were doing, it wasn’t working. They had the proof: millions of dollars spent building a product that hadn’t gained them one customer. Their investors and business partners were getting anxious. Their publicist continued to find media that were interested in the concept, but the outlets wouldn’t run the story without some activity on the site. Still, they had a lot of features and functionality built in to their interface to help users make the best decision possible.“It must be the user experience,” the team hypothesized, which is when and why they came to me.Like many product makers before them, they asked my user experience (UX) team to just redesign the “look and feel” of the site, ASAP. After all, they needed to meet the growing concerns of their business partners, and because they had a lot of entrenched functionality, they felt it would be easy for my team to just build off of it. UX strategy is the process that should be started first, before the design or development of a digital product begins. It’s the vision of a solution that needs to be validated with real potential customers to prove that it’s desired in the marketplace. Although UX design encompasses numerous details such as visual design, content messaging, and how easy it is for a user to accomplish a task, UX strategy is the “Big Picture.” It is the high-level plan to achieve one or more business goals under conditions of uncertainty.The purpose of any strategy is to create a game plan that looks at your current position and then helps you get to where you actually want to be. Your strategy should play to your strengths and be mindful of your weaknesses. It should rely on empirical, lightweight tactics that quickly move you and your team (because let’s face it, you’re probably not doing this alone) toward your desired destination. A solid strategy is the difference between success and failure. In the digital-product world, chaos — time delays, increased costs, and bad user experiences — get exacerbated when there is no shared product vision among team members.Like any good general, you need to develop that strategy. That’s why we convinced the beleaguered startup of our software engineer to step back and reformulate their game plan. Here’s what our hands-on UX strategy achieved for them in about a month:Sure, many of the findings were super depressing for the client. They had spent a lot of time and money building a product that didn’t work. Initially they blamed their site’s “user experience.” But by looking at the big picture, we showed them how a lot of their UX was actually getting hamstrung by other things that went — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —Like this shit? It’s straight out of my new Me = UX strategist, lean startup freak, mom, professor, experimental music lover, ballerina, lefty w/green thumb

The Kansas City Royals won four of five games in the 2015 World Series, bringing home the franchise’s first championship in 30 years. Of course, as a die-hard Royals fan, I’m ecstatic. As a designer, I found a few takeaways for my profession.The Royals are the epitome of a team. There are no superstars on their roster. There are no egos either. Each player understands his role and works hard to be ready whenever he might be needed. The same can (and should) be said about a user experience team. A successful product needs the expertise of multiple individuals. As designers, we need to know what we can bring to the table and recognize where others on the team can make valuable contributions.Shakespeare had it right: “This above all: to thine own self be true.” The Kansas City Royals were not built like many other teams in Major League Baseball. While other clubs sacrificed speed, defense, and athleticism for walks and home runs, the Royals made those three skills the foundation of their lineup. When other teams put a premium on dominating starting pitching, the Royals found adequate starters, while stockpiling devastating talent in their bullpen. And, here’s the key: they played to those strengths. Designers need to know their strengths and use them to make great products. If you are not a great visual designer, don’t focus on pixel-perfection. Instead, find someone else who excels at stunning visuals. Doing so can free you up to focus on the aspects of design where you are most capable, whether that’s wire-framing, prototyping, or whatever else makes you great.The manager of the Royals rarely needed to call for a bunt. Why? Because his team was selfless. They all played for the team first, and for themselves second. If the situation called for a bunt to move a runner into scoring position, the player at bat would do whatever it takes to make that happen. Rather than muscling-up to try for a game-winning three-run home run, they would shorten their swing and try to keep the line moving—putting the ball in play.In contrast, the starting pitcher for the New York Mets in Game 5 of the World Series refused to come out of the game after eight innings of masterful pitching because ‘it was his game,’ and ‘he wanted this game.’ His manager had decided to replace him with their formidable closer, but the starting pitcher threw a little fit in the dugout and convinced the manager to let him return to the mound for the ninth inning. A more selfless player would have conceded that they had done their job and gracefully bowed out. As it turned out, he walked the lead-off hitter, who stole second base on the next pitch and then scored on an R.B.I. double off the left field wall. By the time the closer came into the game, the tying run was on second base, and the Royals were in the middle of another late-game rally. The Mets went on to lose that game and the World Series.A selfless designer does whatever they are needed to do. And that’s different than doing anything they can do. Do your job to the best of your ability, and allow others to do the same. We shouldn’t be offended by feedback, critiques, and suggestions we are given. As designers, our first priority should be making great stuff—not feeding our egos and trying to further our careers.To use the same example of the starting pitcher who demanded to stay in the game and attempt the complete-game shutout, I wonder if there was a small lack of trust there. If he trusted the closer (and was a little less selfish), the Mets probably win that game.The Royals frequently refer to each other as brothers. There is a great deal of trust on that team. The starters trust the bullpen. The pitching staff trusts their defense. The players trust their coaches. If that seems rudimentary, it’s because it is. Trust is a fundamental aspect of team sports. It is also a basic principle to making great products. We need to trust our product managers and our developers. We need to trust other designers on our team. We need to trust ourselves.Each and every player on the Royals’ roster loves the game of baseball. The team’s general manager sought players that enjoy playing the game. Watching the Royals is fun because it’s obvious that they are having fun.As designers, we are privileged to work in an amazing industry with limitless possibilities. Shouldn’t that be fun? We routinely draw on whiteboards, which is something my 5-year-old would love to do all day. Isn’t that fun? Of course it is. Crafting experiences and products every day is something we should relish. If we have a great time working, it will show up in the final product. We need to understand that what we do everyday is fun. So enjoy the ride.Senior Mobile Designer for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Im passionate about three things: Family, Baseball, and Design.

I had a 1-hour long discussion with a friend of mine. He argued —I had to respond to it as the argument was fundamentally challenging “why” I did User Experience Design for a living and why I was getting a Masters degree in Human Centered Design  Engineering. As specious a definition that is for a “process”, let’s try to evaluate the validity of this argument in User Experience Research and Design.As most people would agree, User Experience Design is a process — one that is highly influenced by constraints and crafted and customized to the nature of the problem at hand. A textbook process, that which is taught in Universities could be — User Research, Surveys, Contextual Observations, Data Analysis, Affinity Diagrams, Segmentation, Personas, User Stories, Scenarios, Ideation  Brainstorming, Information Architecture, Sketches, Wireframing, Low-Fidelity Prototyping, Usability Testing, High-Fidelity Prototyping, Front-end Development, Software Integration, with iterations along the different steps. Go to any Design agency’s website and you will find this process documented as a selling tool.This is a UX process that has indeed been documented, it’s called User Centered Design. These are tried and tested methods, that which has its genesis in Design, Psychology and Engineering. Why then are there still badly designed products out there, despite following such deeply researched tools and frameworks?As I’m currently pursuing my Masters degree in Human Centered Design  Engineering, I come across some students who get married to this process that’s taught in school. What’s not taught in schools are the constraints that are associated with the User Centered Design process and how this fits in the constraints of the business, product/service, users and stakeholders and how certain processes work effectively or fail within these constraints. Going by textbook is acceptable when there is a good enough reasoning to following a certain tool or methodology. I recently executed a UX Research and Design project for a company where I had to reorganize and realign our goals a number of times throughout our process. As questionable as this sounds in terms of planning, the nature of some design problems is such that you are not aware of all the constraints until you carry out some exploratory research. In our case, this was largely dictated by the changing needs of the client and the uncertainty of the problem we were tackling, other than the typical budget and technology constraints. Certain tools worked better for certain scenarios. For example, we planned to create Storyboards early on in the process but later realized this wasn’t going to be of help in solving our client’s problem. “Wait, what! You didn’t create storyboards? That’s a must in a design process”. No it’s not. Solving the problem was the goal, not creating storyboards.Knowledge of processes is one thing. There’s an aptitude and attitude that go into executing the process.The attitude of a designer represents her mindset in approaching problems. If I had to define one aspect of attitude as the most important, I’d pick self awareness. The rest usually falls in place if with this habit. Being mindful and conscious of our own cognitive biases makes one more empathetic and capable in setting aside one’s own thoughts, feelings, perceptions and opinions. Aptitude is the ability to effectively execute a process. In this context, I use the word “process” as what you ended up executing and not what you planned to execute, or something that has a fixed definition. You have successfully executed the process if you have met the constraints surrounding the business, product/service, users and other stakeholders including your team members, or more.So there’s attitude and aptitude. What about experience? This is where we need to be careful. While experience can prove to drive aptitude, it can also hinder attitude which in turn can hinder aptitude. Today our design industry is highly opinionated (guilty as charged). The causes for this are knowledge and experience biases. So how do you balance it then? Once again, it’s self awareness. As long as we have the ability to learn, unlearn and relearn, we’re probably on the right track. I focused on writing about the other side of experience because it’s too easy to talk about the good side, that which everyone already knows.Design is not just acquired through education and practice; it’s highly influenced by our upbringing. The work a designer produces is intrinsically influenced by the mindsets and characteristics that have been acquired through life experiences. We don’t develop empathy for our users by just documenting personas. Empathy comes from the same care that we have for the things and people around us in our daily lives, not just by documenting User Stories. It is our nature that helps us build that empathy and understanding of users, not a deliverable. Neither do we always create usable products by just doing usability testing. A designer’s personality highly influences the result of the product. It’s highly driven by our innate nature. While I mention a lot about mindsets and personality, I’d like to point out that I’m not in anyway suggesting to ignore the process. Process is important but not everything.So… Is User Experience Design a transferable skill? Sure. It could be. Are human characteristics transferable?Aravind Ravi is a User Experience Designer who shares thought provoking ideas on how to make designs more thoughtful, meaningful and desirable.a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

by Joie ReinsteinStrangely, through this UX warning, I came to appreciate even more why Chancellor Andrea Merkel was so upset when it was discovered the NSA had been listening in on her cell phone conversations. Back to the passwords, this is not the only thing Berliners feel strongly about. Yet although problems exist, just as they do in any city, one wonders if maybe the control and self discipline that is so readily abided by has also allowed Berlin to become a small oasis in Europe. Creative Strategist  UX Designer, Global Nomad, K-pop Dancer.

As a UX Researcher, the things I took into consideration in my recommendations were narrow by definition: things that will make the product better for users. As a PM, the things I had to consider were much broader, and I had to weigh up things like engineering resources, trade-offs elsewhere, other projects we needed to do motivated by other inputs etc. It’s easy for a UX Researcher to consider the outcome binary (do these things!) whilst in reality putting limited resources onto a problem has greater trade-offs and opportunity costs.VP of Product 

I keep seeing this picture over and over again on Facebook and Linkedin and it’s not quite accurate. What you see in it is actually User Interaction (UI) which, as a notion, contains UX (User Experience) at a more refined level. The passers choose to interact this way with the surroundings because is more efficient to them (it’s a shortcut), not a more pleasant experience than walking on a pavement (you end up with dusty shoes and stumbling on dirt bumps). So they choose to trade efficiency over experience.When we talk about UX (User Experience) we refer to the quality of that experience.What you see in the picture is generically called a cow path. It doesn’t matter what architects and designers were thinking they were building, because users will tend to have a very pragmatic approach to it, even repurpose it.Let’s take Medium for instance: great platform, heavy articles, smart thoughts etc. It might happen that in a few years only great thinkers stay active and the rest of us remain avid readers. In case you want to be hired as a journalist, perhaps the most valuable thing in your CV would be your very existence on Medium. Your reputation as a journalist will begin here. Everyone will take you seriously because you’re having followers here. Followers of great quality, intelligent and profound. We call that a natural repurpose that was never intended, a natural pivot out of a cow path.This is why, usually when a client comes to me asking for a logo, I advise him to run the business without one for at least a year. Dust will settle, habits will form, an organisational personality will hopefully emerge. At the end of that year, you can hardly say that you have some sort of a team culture. It is ok to have a business without a logo at first, because that shape really doesn’t matter. At all. Wait for the world to reshape your intentions. This doesn’t mean the world has defeated you, but rather you adapted to it.So, coming back to this picture: I don’t like to assume that those landscape architects didn’t know about the “cow path” concept. And it’s not like they didn’t have the time to let people alone draw the natural paths. A week or two is enough to see all the walking patterns. Most likely, it was a budget decision. It is cheaper to build one straight path than to add some ramification to it. But, so what? People don’t care about your design and tight budget. They mind their own lives and if you’re not thoughtful enough as a designer, it really doesn’t matter how pixel perfect you are. Function first, beauty second.costea.se — Senior UI / UX Designer and Information Architect. CoFounder of 2ndwavers.com, an innovative swap system build on top of the old e-commerce system.Unlike the deadly ninjas that infiltrate the darkness of your dreams, we bring you great articles about user experience, web design, and technology!

Talking about 2-factor authentication in my previous post we can look more into verifications on mobile apps.Password is the usual one, a lot of them (especially financial ones) use PIN. But how many use both?Is accessing your phone and verification to enter the app already 2-factor verification? Not really, right?We are used to passwords by now. This behaviour was brought over from the web.Let’s look at some of the usability issues PIN has:2. User perspective:Of course touch ID helps a lot in this case as it’s a perfect PIN replacement that still has PIN as a fallback. And it’s visually enough distinctive to PIN or password.The problem I bumped into is how to point out to the user that he is setting up 2 different things. Passwords are usually set in Sign Up process and many users do it automatically. When setting up PIN they remember the numeric keyboard and pattern they were creating. Going trough the process using both they usually get stuck on the password. Except you were forcing them to set up a custom PIN too. In this case you better prepare nice recovery processes or you will probably lose the user.Product and UI/UX Design. Move fast and break things. 

It’s Halloween and dark magic is in the air; along with mythical creatures and hand drawn patterns of power.So, just another day in UX.The industry’s belief in invisible and unmeasurable powers needs killing. Unicorns and Dark Patterns do not help it grow or build trust.The problem with magical thinking is it is a trick – a manipulation of the audience. The audience is entertained by moments of confusion. Is that a good core ideal for most products and services?I was reminded of the magical thinking problem earlier this week whilst watching a documentary on the discovery of the constituent parts of air.Air is clear. It is all around us. Yet the transparency hides complexity.As the early scientists tried to discover what air was, they ran up against both magical thinking and an early version of pseudo-science.Yet, it was false. It hid reality. It explained results now by decoying people away from ideas of other gases, other chemical reactions.In UX, this is similar to its only partial acceptance of human psychology; let alone new concepts like embodied cognition.Dark Pattern design is an example of science used in an incomplete and unhelpful way. It is an explanation of the measurable user behaviour but it is both a magical manipulation and a scientific falsehood. It shows contempt for users whilst explaining its actions partially.It explains but it hides more interesting and more real ways of explaining success and failure in design and manufacture. A complete explanation is, for me, the most suspicious explanation (cf. my distrust of A/B testing).In the social, cognitive and sensory design of UX, much of the content is, like air, transparent. That doesn’t mean it’s unmeasurable or indescribable: just that we need to try harder.UX needs to lose the magic and explore the wonder of humans.Multimodal inclusive communication  design: graphic, text, tactile, audio  video. Tweet on accessibility, technology, museums, cognition  social policy

They keep weird hours, exhibit odd habits and they throw a lot of jargon around — leaving those in the offline community a little dazed and confused. Most of the time you needn’t bother with trying to translate a lot of what they’re saying, but if you are running a live site, there is one word you need to quickly and closely become acquainted with:You’ve probably seen this term, UX Design, thrown around a bit. You’ve probably seen it in the same sentence with words like:And especially the words: And you’ve probably seen UX and UI Design paired with a lot of metaphors, each as entertaining and confusing as the last. But UX design is none of these things. It may hang out with or heavily overlap with some of these things, but it is not actually any of those things.It’s a field of expertise that stands as an independent and crucial component in website development, backed by a community of specialist professionals with enough specialist jargon to leave you begrudgingly clueless.Let’s begin:This expansion might allow you to understand its purpose a little better.If so, well done.— Don Norman, a cognitive scientist credited with coining the term User Experience in the late 1990s.To elaborate: UX design is a mix of sociology and cognitive science that looks at how people and products interact. As a scientific process, it can be applied to tangible products like cars, chairs or tables. But in the digital world it simply refers to the way a user interacts with the interface, be it a website, e-commerce store or app.Glad you asked.UX Designers are creative and critical thinkers.For the ease of explanation, let’s suppose our UX designer is currently working on a website for a client. They look at the overall experience and effectiveness of each tool or facet on the company’s website, and then examine if the needs of their users are met.Their design principles are derived from cognitive and behavioral analysis, rather than aesthetic or composition values. This is where a How do you find a UX Designer?If you hear these phrases, you’re talking to a UX Designer.To recap:Let’s keep this simple: I make digital products work, by ensuring the people who have to use them know how to and enjoy doing so. 

If you have little to no design background and are interested in figuring out what UX design is about, that makes two of us. I recently got my college degree on Software Engineering and I’ve been working on a software development company for two years now. I’ve always believed technology should be at the service of people, so when I first heard of User Experience (UX) it resonated with me. I finally decided to stop tip-toeing and properly learn UX design.I chose So here I am, a developer that can barely tell different design terms apart, attempting to give you an overview of the UX field. Whether you’re a fellow developer looking to dive into UX or are just trying to learn about it enough to communicate with your team, I hope that sharing a similar background will help in explaining UX as a whole.Before we get to how UX works, we first need to agree on what it is. Many believe it’s a buzzword designers are using lately to talk about creating cool UI, however, Lets put this on practical terms. Say you build an application. The experience your user has is influenced beyond the use of the app; the experience will include the application’s landing page, its app store listing, user support, documentation, This list is non-exhaustive and already seems overwhelming! As with software projects, not everything needs to be covered Now we can start talking about what UX entails. An easy-ish way to do that is by explaining the UX process. If you google it right now, you’ll come across lots of different models. Here’s the one we’ll work with:One of the first questions to ask is “who are my users going to be?”. Get to know and understand them. This is important because otherwise we end up designing for ourselves. Rarely are we the sole user of what we build. User research is generally accomplished by interviews, surveys, and observation techniques (such as This phase is where we construct an educated hypothesis of what the problem is, based on the user research. Our hypothesis answers the question “what are the users’ needs?”.This is where we start coming up with concepts and ideas on how to solve the problem defined by the Analysis phase. Note that the design phase is not necessarily about coming up with mock-ups, but could also refer to coming up with the content priority, task flow, among other things (remember we mentioned The next step is to materialize the solution. I know that most of us are wired to look at code as our go-to solution but before opening the text editor, think if there are other tools you can use to build your prototype. Pen and paper perhaps? Explore different approaches. In the words of You wouldn’t release code directly to production without testing it first, right? This is a simplified view of the process. What’s important is to understand what each phase is trying to accomplish. Also, remember that the UX design process is a cycle with several iterations (just like many software development methodologies!).Now that you have more of an idea of UX, I hope you’ll be inspired to help implement it in the projects you participate in. There’s not much point in creating software that doesn’t serve the needs of who’s using it. If that’s not motivating enough, think about how each day there are more options available to users. If yours provides the best experience, you’ll win them over.If I did my job right, now you have a clue of what UX is beyond a buzzword. However, there’s no way I covered everything you need to know. To get more in-depth knowledge on the topics discussed here or the UX field in general, check these out:I’d love to hear about your experiences as a developer related to UX! Or let me know of your thoughts and concerns on this piece.Mexican Software Developer with a passion for User Experience and an admiration for Testing. Dreams of equality (and a friendly Singularity, while we’re at it).

The job-search process that led me to Slice of Lime was in full-swing over three years ago. Three years is a lot of time — especially in an industry that’s wrapped tightly around ‘tech’ in all its permutations — so I really had no idea what to expect. After running It’s encouraging to see such a demand for UX design, but once I started digging things got really weird. Before we explore what I saw, let’s back up a bit and talk about this “UX” thing.For anyone who’s been a practitioner of User Experience design for a while, it would be pretty easy to say that we share a common sentiment: “UX” is a buzzword that does our practice more harm than good.Even though it’s origins are The popularity of the term “UX” over the last decade or so has meant rampant adoption as companies scramble to find ways to differentiate their products. This effect isn’t limited to product companies either; the (advertising / digital / interactive / design) agency model had to shift to adopt this new type of design as well, hiring up teams of people who could build wireframes or at least draw arrows between boxes.If we look at the roles now, and compare UX Designer to UI Designer we see how there is a definite shift in popularity between the two. Around mid-2012, the term UX Designer eclipsed UI designer and has continued the strong climb without looking back.So what does this mean? Well, I don’t think it means we are hiring fewer UI designers. In fact, I think UI designers are in demand more than ever before. but their role has been given the new responsibility of designing a user experience. Thus, the new title: User Experience Designer.The field of design is evolving, moving from the production of visual assets to more of a comprehensive type of design that is research-based, strategic, and more in line with product design than anything else. This new type of design views the world from the perspective of the user or customer as opposed to that of the company or product.OK, back to those job postings.One thing you notice quickly when searching for UX jobs is the number of forward slashes in the titles and descriptions. The most common combination of slashes and acronyms is UI/UX.If we take a few of the top results from my search, we’ll see quite an array of combinations, Web/UX Designer and UX/Visual Designer being some of the top examples. A lot of UX professionals are hybrids with expertise in product design, research, interface design, interaction design and development so maybe this is the reason we see the slash. However, I’d imagine it’s more due to a limited understanding of what “UX” really means.Again, I’m happy to see that UX is showing up, but I wonder if it knows why it was invited.If we take this line of thinking even further, could you not just remove ‘UX’ from these job titles and hire the same person? What is it about those two little letters that you are hoping to gain?Do you really know what they mean?It may be hard to believe this, but simply hiring a UX designer doesn’t mean your product or service will have a better User Experience.Before you post the next job opening to the interwebs, consider the structure of your company and how a UX role will fit. Traditionally, design positions fall under the marketing category. As we’ve shifted over the past few decades to products that are increasingly digital and products that are screen-based, design has migrated towards the Information Technology (IT) category.Placing UX in the IT category is fine, but The way you view your company is probably very different than the way your customers view your company. Any good UX professional will understand this.If you are serious about adding a ‘U’ and an ‘X’ to various roles within your company, then you must be willing to accept a certain level of disruption. By hiring someone who advocates for and is empathetic to the needs of customers, there will be new insights that push your company and product in new directions across all teams.UX isn’t a role that belongs at the bottom of some corporate hierarchy. It’s a role that needs functional license to consider your company and your products/services/systems from the customer’s perspective.So where does UX fit? It’s up to you, but there needs to be a framework in place that allows for a UX professional to thrive. This means they need access to representatives from I’ve studied a number of UX job postings recently and a few things really stand out to me. One glaring issue is the non-specificity of most postings. “Sharp design” or “problem solver” are vague and don’t describe what you are really looking for (because everyone thinks they are a sharp designer and can solve problems, right?).Overall, there is an obvious lack of understanding when it comes to the capabilities and responsibilities of a UX professional. Here’s an example of how one company has described the required skills of a UX Design Director:and another for the same position:Descriptions like this are vague and leave a lot to interpretation for the applicant.I’ve seen these issues appear in postings from companies like Nest and IBM — companies where User Experience design would be considered by most to be a core competency. If a culture of User-Centric design doesn’t exist throughout your company, it’ll be hard to hire a magical UX unicorn who can swoop in and make an amazing experience appear from nothing.Based on the issues I’ve seen, here are a few suggestions:Please don’t assume that simply adding ‘UX’ to a job title will enable you to realize any of the benefits of hiring a true UX professional. It takes a shift across your organization and a willingness to accept this new user-centric way of viewing the world.The experience someone has with your brand, company, products and people can be (and usually is) If you’re hiring (or have recently been hired), I’d love to know more about what the process has been like for you. What’s been the most challenging? What do you look for in a UX professional?Are you new to hiring for this role? Please ping me on Lead UX Designer (A collection of stories, tips, reviews, encouragement and advice for those who are transitioning to or are in the field of UX Design.

I am giving classes on UX Design to the University of Lodz students for the second time now. I am quite lucky that UX is dynamically evolving so I don’t have to repeat myself during lectures. I was a little stressed before I took up this activity. My concerns revolved mainly around such fears as: What if I don’t know all the answers to the questions? What if I say something stupid? What if they prove me wrong? What if… x100? To be honest… all of those nightmares came true but in the end they weren’t nightmares at all. It happened to be a little like client-vendor one semester workshops on various topics and I fell in love with this activity. Now, I grab every occasion to teach some students or provide workshops especially to more experienced and smarter people than I am. Why? Here is why.The first lecture I have given to the students was more about UX project methodologies and then we switched to the basics of Information Architecture. The initial task was to define the IA for an existing site. You would be amazed how people think of it when they heard of it for the first time and try to follow the idea of IA.The laziest students tried to find ctrl+c ctrl+v solution so they ended up looking at a sitemap asking me if this is the thing they should redraw.Others for example concentrated on the homepage content and tried to figure out what are the priorities for the content itself and put it in the hierarchical diagram like way.Finally others mixed between sitemap and content approach and felt a little lost at the beginning.So you thought that you know quite a lot about how users think. The students will prove you wrong just in a second. It usually comes up during the topic of Customer Journey Mapping. When I asked about the motivations for certain tasks I was quite amazed with the answers. I was like: “Well this is how the next generation is thinking”.Never assume and give statements. Better ask and interact with the answers :)I took party in many commercial deployments of my designs. Since I am a UX consultant and don’t have access to my client’s products and statistics I can only ask or guess how the sites and apps are performing (well, we do user testing and other stuff, but when we deploy the project it is a good client’s will if they share what is going well or badly with the product and I don’t have many chances to see what is really going on out there).So what do I do with the students? I ask them to perform tasks occasionally on the sites or apps I took part in UX design and… there were times that I was astonished how they perceived the products themselves. You don’t hear from client nor stats “Doh! That sucks!”.But on the other hand it might give you a piece of sanity. Do you remember when you tried to convince the client why they should implement one of your ideas but they refused? I do and I do remember a lot. During the classes I’ve heard words like: “Doh! That sucks! They should have done this like there you put the idea you failed to deliver to the client or the client changed after the site deployment”.Nothing gets you more creative than listening, responding or sharing. The young people are not afraid to experiment and are not fit in the tiny corporation boxes just think different. They don’t assume, they don’t have this “it can’t be done” attitude. They just come up with an idea and try to put it into practice.UX design for some people is like magic or more like shamanism. They don’t perceive it as a solid knowledge or any scientific proven territory. So there will be a group of people who will try to find a hole in every logical process you present. You will get the most unexpected questions from your students just to down your way of thinking. They will be like the clients from hell who ask tough questions during pitching or when they try to kill your design.So this is actually fantastic exercise to improve your conversational and rhetorical skills. I remember the students who wanted to prove me wrong so badly that they actually were walking through the shopping mall and taking photos that were against the things I said before to them. They showed me a big pack of those and asked: “How about that?”. You wouldn’t see that coming :)So teaching UX is like having super intelligent tough client with a tons of ideas interacting with you. As far as I know designers love challenges so this is something every designer should definitely try on their own.UX DesignerWe Seek Out the Important Stories in Higher Education (To submit, tweet your proposal to 

This article is about gaps.I think gaps are where most of the interesting design challenges are lurking, particularly if you’re interested in information architecture.Information architecture is fundamentally interested in gaps — gaps between problems and solutions, between products and audiences, between perfection and pragmatism.Gaps invite us to think about the differences that cause them and the connections that might bridge them.Gaps keep us in a job.This article is about a way to describe and explore experiences — particularly the transitions or gaps that occur between moments in an experience.I like to think of information architecture as the science of separation, the art of connection and the technology of pointing. The gaps do matter, but only because they’re the space between things — and if we’re honest, the ‘things’ usually get most of the attention.Information architects are fascinated by ‘things’ and are preoccupied by considering their parts. We analyse and understand the properties of a thing so that we can describe its essence. We’re critically interested in simplification. We strive to make complex things more meaningful. So often we break complex things up into smaller, simpler parts. We simplify and separate. We build gaps.But although there’s this necessary commitment to reduction of complexity, I don’t think information architecture is a fundamentally reductive activity. Information architecture sets a template for the strategic construction of things. We build stuff — we make places out of information. So, as much as we separate things, we also connect things. We find similarity between and within the classes of things we’ve identified. We find and form connections.Once we’ve identified connections we devise and design ways to exploit these connections. Whether we’re designing digital navigation or coherent cross-channel experience, we focus on links. Links often depend on pointing at things — whether we do that with wayfinding aids or technologies that take you somewhere — like the hyperlink.This is what an IA does — we simplify, separate and connect things, identifying the ‘stuff’ we can build places out of, building and bridging gaps and making experiences meaningful. We create places that users can explore and which can be the setting for meaningful experiences.The most effective IAs don’t just consider the places they’re making, they also consider and design the spaces between the places.So we design places with an understanding that there will always be gaps between the parts of the whole, and that it’s out job to identify where and when these gaps need bridging. But there are other gaps that we care about too.There are always spaces between the places we make. There are always gaps between our intended design and the first iteration. There are always gaps between our vision and the way colleagues and stakeholders might imagine a design.No matter how good a design is, it’s never really finished. There are always gaps between what we release and what it will become.With any piece of information architecture, the implications of our decisions ripple across the whole experience. IA defines the shapes that can appear in the interface. It feeds back into the strategy for future ideas, iterations and innovations. IA controls and curtails opportunities — it reaches into the future and defines what’s possible. IA travels in time.This is one reason that when you’re designing information architecture (or really any type of UX design) you need to make sure that you’ve got the buy-in of the organisation. You need to have seeded an understanding of the implications of your IA approach, alongside the tangible things you build.So how do we do that? I’m going to describe one way — Trajectories. It’s a design and storytelling technique that should help you design better experience by bridging gaps — whether they’re between team members during the design process, between iterations of a design as it evolves or within individual designed experiences.A trajectory is the path that a moving object follows through space as a function of time.It’s also a line. It has a beginning, middle and end.It’s a type of story.IAs tend to spend a lot of time thinking about space. Information architecture is preoccupied by the spaces and structures that our design implies. But TIME is just as important as space. Information architecture underpins experiences, and experiences happen in time. If you only ever present your IA as a static structure, you’re underplaying the power of your design.IA is built to be experienced, so you need to find ways to communicate the impact that your IA will have on the temporal and sequential nature of the experiences it will contain.Architectures also evolve in time. It’s an extra dimension we need to keep in mind as we design. So whether we’re describing a user experience within our architecture, or the evolution of an information architecture between design iterations, time is just as important to an IA as space.Trajectories are a way of focusing your attention on the temporal nature of experiences. At their most basic, a trajectory is just a line that describes a path through an experience or information architecture. It’s a visual way to describe a user journey.Their power lies in their ability to focus your attention on any ‘moment’ or point along that line, as well as the continuity of the line as a whole.As we design experiences, it can be tempting to tell stories in rapid cuts — as if all user experiences are really unfilmed music videos. Whenever you hear a sentence that begins ‘and then the user…’ think about how well the sentence is connected to the one that preceded it and the one that follows. This kind of storytelling can sometimes suspend the ‘user’ in a mythical hinterland where the motivation or context for their understanding and action has not been thought through. Storyboards are a great way to describe experiences. But sometimes the secrets of a design are lost in the gutter between the cells.Something as simple as drawing a line allows you to trace the path of that action forwards and backwards to determine the motivation for the action, as well as the trajectory that the action suggests. A line has continuity — it’s connected. You can still describe the spaces, both between places and times, but a line encourages you to imagine the coherence and possible connections between the gaps.Design is about telling the story of a world that could exist and then devising ways to develop that story and make it reality. I think telling stories is at the heart of iterating and sharing design including information architecture.Every design decision has consequences, whether you build a dominant organisational paradigm based on taxonomy, or you focus on modelling domains and assume connections will be formed organically, for you… there are always consequencesTrajectories can be used to reflect on the direction that you’re travelling in, explore other directions, judge the energy needed to connect the elements of your designs. It’s a tool that can be used to judge a design, as well as the processes that will be required to realise a design.What’s the trajectory of the information architecture you create — how is it transformed from an idea into a reality?Stories, whether you use trajectories or not, are another abstraction you can use to zoom out and judge your design. They’re probably the cheapest way of seeding a culture and developing a shared ubiquitous language.But it’s not a particularly useful one.No matter how much I love diagrams, I’ve learned that they’re never as effective as a person explaining an idea. This trajectory is pretty useless. Even if you add some annotation (always a useful addition to a trajectory or any form of diagram) it will still be limited in effectiveness. But trajectories can be brought to life, they can be ‘animated’ by telling the story of the path that the trajectory describes.Imagine me running my finger along the line, describing the purpose of the curves. Trajectories can be used to document a design, but I don’t think that’s where they’re most useful.Think of the line as a path that your conversation might follow as it describes an experience. When you need to deviate from the path you’ve imagined, that reveals something about the design — work hard to make the implicit assumptions baked into the abstract trajectory clear.A trajectory line can describe any aspect of an experience as it occurs in time. As with any 2 dimensional line, you have access to a couple of axes.‘X’ is usually time.But we don’t have to use the Y axis to describe a movement through space. It could be a measure of attention or engagement. It could be used to denote a user moving between different contexts or technologies or platforms. Or it could mean nothing at all. You might not even have two axes, a trajectory might snake its way through a domain model, bringing to life the relationships, connections and properties that stand between objects and entities.The best kind of trajectories are hand drawn. I don’t think you should try too hard for perfection. Trajectories prompt questions and discussion. Make sure they’re not misleading. But if there’s a break in the line, or you make a mistake, don’t worry too much. The discussion that they prompt is where the real value lies.The intersection of different journeys and the variation in experiences is easily noted using trajectories.Seeing these two trajectories reminds me of the graphs I sometimes see on my iPhone after I return from a bike ride. The phone detects gradient and plots it against my speed. Seeing how going up hill slows me down is not a huge surprise. But using trajectories to explore the effects of the features of your experiences is a powerful tool, and usually leads to insights.You might not need to use curving lines. You can use trajectories to show movement through different devices or platforms. They’re a powerful tool for describing cross-channel experiences. I’ve used variations in contextual studies to show how editorial workflows are dependent on multiple tools and processes.We’ve found it helpful to think about three types of trajectory.One is the designed experience.Whenever you’re designing something, there’s an optimal path through the thing you create. We’ve all sat at a desk imaging a sunny day when everything goes right and the user flows through the experience in exactly the way we always imagined.Experience designers don’t really design experiences. We design the stimulus with which our audiences create experiences. Experiences are alway unique. A user will always contribute something to the equation of the experience — they always bring something. Most trajectories are a line, but I think it’s a good idea to make the line that describes this ‘designed experience’ a little fatter than the others.We should always be designing resilience into the ‘experiences’ we give to users and audiences. I like to describe this tolerance in the trajectories I design.If I know that there’ll be different levels of familiarity with an interface, I might describe a bulge in the trajectory at this point. This allows me to describe that although there are different levels of competency in my users, I’ve designed for this range. It also allows me to describe what might fall outside of the range of the designed experience. This will prompt consideration and often discussion as you tell the story of the design.Is there enough tolerance in the design? Is there too much?The trajectory of the designed experience describes the range of different user experience that your design is capable of supporting. It can also be used to denote the boundaries at which you have accepted the fact that the experience might fail or break down — which in turn can be used to design measures to pull individuals back on track.Every user will have their own ‘individual experience’ of the design you’ve provided.If you’ve designed tolerance within your product or service the second type of trajectory will hopefully lie somewhere within the region of the designed experience.This second type of trajectory describes the path that an actual person might take through the experience.Because we acknowledge that each user will have their own experience, we can describe multiple individual trajectories for the same designed experience. This is one of the most powerful tools that trajectories give us. It allows us to think about the different ways that the stimulus of our design can be interpreted and used by different individuals.Information architecture often makes me think about the ‘Choose your own adventure’ books that I read as a child. These books have multiple narratives running simultaneously within the same book. At the bottom of key pages the reader is given a choice, “To go in the cave go to page 42, to run away go to page 66.’ I like to think of information architecture as providing the same kinds of structure.The structure remains the same. The choices that each individual user can experience differ. They’re still usually based on an acceptable range of responses for each individual choice we offer, but the user is mainly responsible for making the experience meaningful, based on the stimulus we provide.Thinking in these terms allows us to focus on a broader range of supported experience, expanding outward from the ‘designed experience’ to explore the ‘individual experience’ in more depth and richness.The historical trajectory is the story that participants will be able to tell about the experience that they’ve had.All experiences create social and historical artefacts. It might be memories of the experience or it might even be physical artefacts. It might even be a social share that they create to pull people into having a version of the experience for themselves.It’s important to consider the historical trajectory for a number of reasons. After an experience is over, the historical trajectory is all that the user is left with, so if you want the experience to remain meaningful and shareable it’s important that at least some elements can be remembered and described.Thinking about the description that a user could give at the end of an experience is often a good way to identify possible points of confusion or pain.So, three kinds of lines to describe designed experiences — is that it?Well, kind of.But within any story there are punctuation points — chapters, sections, pages. The same is true of all experiences. Experiences are made up of parts and in the language of Trajectories the gaps betweens the parts are called transitions.Transitions are points in your experience where you need to pay the most attention. They mark points at which there might be a change of direction or where the continuity of the experience you’re describing is in jeopardy.These are the moments of risk and reward for a designer. And because they represent both risks and opportunities, it’s important to understand them.Information architects know the importance of naming things. Giving something a name helps you to recognise things of the same type. So I’ll describe a few different types of transition that it’s useful to think about, and give each one a name.If you’re successful in adopting and seeding Trajectories as a way to explore user experiences in your organisation, you should find that these Transitions become a checklist or a set of heuristics that anyone can use to investigate and analyse the success of a design or experience.Beginnings provide context and help us describe the motivation of the user.Considering beginnings can help you to explore whether your ‘designed experience’ reaches back far enough. How do people enter or begin their experience with you? What are the foundations you’re building on?Thinking about beginnings will also encourage you to consider the range of routes into a designed experience. Where do your users come from? Do you prefer any particular inbound referrer or source?Types of things you might learn by thinking about beginnings:- Does the user have all the information they need to take the first required action in the experience?- How might you enhance the motivation of the user at this stage to ensure the experience begins?- Is the required first action obvious across the full range of ‘beginnings’?People play different roles during experiences. Recognising the roles we want users to adopt, as well as the roles they might just ‘fall into’ will help you to design better experiences.Search behaviour is one good example of the way a users intention and motivation might shift throughout an experience. At times users might be tightly focused on finding a specific item or resource — you might describe this role as ‘motivated and informed seeker’ — they know what they want, they just don’t know where it is. At other times the same user might be looking for distraction and be open to browsing — this ‘curious browser’ would probably appreciate different features and functionality than when they inhabited the other role.Another example of role might be ‘beginner’, ‘intermediate’ and ‘expert’ users. They all experience the same stimulus, but they are likely to perceive and use the affordance you provide very differently.Role is one of the most fundamental aspects contributing the context that your experience will take place in.I like to think that good design and information architecture can orchestrate experiences. By considering the roles that a user might shift between, and the optimal roles required to deliver delightful experiences, we’ve got more information and inspiration to nudge users into the desired states and mindsets.The interface is the means by which we meaningfully communicate with our audience.An interface could be any means of communication — the user interface of a website, app or other digital product. It could be physical signs or way-finding devices, printed instructions or just the language we use when we talk to them.Is the same interface appropriate throughout the whole trajectory and experience?There are times when changes to the interface can have a profound effect. When we think about immersion and optimising experiences for engagement we’ll often want to make the interface as invisible as possible — maybe the content and the functional interface are fused together. Maybe the interface disappears when it’s not needed — think of most video players — but is easily recalled when required.The interface will often be how you manifest the ‘giver of the experience’ to the user. There will often be a bond of trust, so interfaces should be meaningful and reliable. But they needn’t remain static. Considering how an interface might react to different contexts, devices or user needs might unlock otherwise unseen potential.If you’re designing cross-channel experiences you might also want to consider how your interfaces complement each other. How will you support switching between interfaces to ensure that your experiences have coherence and continuity as well as flexibility and resilience.Information architects are preoccupied with the spaces we create using information and classification, but time is arguably the more important feature of experience design.Experiences happen in time. Experiences have duration and sometimes they can even be spread over multiple episodes or sessions. Considering how your design responds to this will always result in a more resilient and meaningful design.Does each session mark a new beginning? How might this beginning differ for each episode? Why will an episode or session end? How might you prolong it? How might you encourage a new session to begin?Asking these questions will reveal opportunities and challenges. But thinking about the answers will ensure that your designs reflect the actual flow of real experiences. Experiences are often interrupted, and they always occur over time. Always consider time and the evolution of the experiences you’re designing.Consider the impact on the user experience of beginning a ‘journey’ at different points.In the old days we’d construct a structure imagining a journey would flow from A to B. But search engines enable users to jump into journeys right in the middle of the A to B routes. More complex models place beginnings at many different points. What sort of beginnings does your UX need to support?Some experiences might require a user to switch role or mindset. How could you support a user to transition between active and passive states? How might you define and support multiple roles?Experiences can stretch across sessions. How might you enhance an experience by making it easier to pick up where you left off?Sometimes a user might switch interfaces. Think about how Google Chromecast asks a user to split their focus while they move from one device to another. The experience can be satisfying, but the seam between the interfaces needs to be considered.In the original conception of trajectories there was a transition called ‘physical/virtual traversals’. It encourages designers to consider the important transition that occurs when someone switches from a virtual interface and digital experience into one rooted in the real world.This is still a useful focus, particularly when you’re considering how you might augment real-word experiences with digital enhancements, the transition between the digital and the real-world domain is a seam that should be considered in the design.However, I think for most information architects we can extend our focus to consider any switching between domains — whether this is a virtual/physical traversal or moving between differently oriented information architectures.Even within entirely virtual experiences we can move users and audiences through different domains and sections. There might be continuity in the interface and temporal episode, but the underpinning architecture of the ‘space’ they inhabit can shift.Consider the points at which a user might leave one domain and enter another — this might signal a new beginning or a shift in role too. But there will definitely be opportunity to make the transition smoother and more motivated and meaningful for the user.Where your design or experience is predicated on the assumption of access to a set of physical resources, identifying this dependency is hugely important. Any core dependency that your experience rests upon should be identified and understood. But it’s likely that there are points in your Trajectory or experience where progress is entirely dependent on this access. Think of these moments as gate points beyond which the experience or design cannot proceed unless the necessary resource is in place.Access to physical resources provides a chance to consider where scarcity might be an issue. For example, ‘moderating comments’ might not always be considered a physical resource. But if we’re not able to support ‘user commenting’ fully, experiences and products could be undermined.Considering this type of transition should help you to design more resilient experiences. What redundancy could you design into the experience to increase resilience? What alternative resources might be able to serve the function once the optimal design is compromised?Seams describe any other type of weak points in technology. Of course, language is a technology. You can consider a broad range of seams when you design an experience.Considering the technical barriers that could undermine an experience is vital whenever you design or deliver an experience.Caching and off-line access to content is an obvious example of where considering seams can help ensure that participants remain inside our optimal designed experiences.Seams are points of weakness. Rips can occur when you haven’t tightly coupled the sides of a seam, so designing for seams is really a case of designing for resilience. What’s the most efficient way you might bridge a point of weakness in your design? What error messages might you provide when everything goes wrong and the user or audience does find a point at which the experience breaks down?Considering the social aspect of the experience you’re designing will enhance any experience.Lots of experiences are social, and even when a user experiences a design in isolation, there might be multiple users experiencing the same space or domain at any one time.How many concurrent users is the right number? How might you support asynchronous cohorts? What is the social aspect of your design?‘Encounters’ can encompass other types of thinking too. How might the isolation of a user enhance or detract from an experience? How could you use pacing to bring different users into contact or avoid encounters?Encounters allow you to focus on the inherently social aspect of any experience design — this can extend your attention to consider the social aspect of design. What are the social interactions you need to consider as you design?Most experiences come to an end — for example, we’re now at the end of this list.Considering the ending of experiences will help you create better experiences. If you know the ending that each user or audience member should reach, you have a quantified point you can use to judge whether your design or experience has been a success.Designing ‘Endings’ help you to consider the historical trajectory that a user will emerge with from the experience. What do they have at the end of the experience? Can they use this to share the experience or shape the future behaviour?A ubiquitous, shared language is the most powerful tool any organisation or design team can develop. Eric Evans stresses the importance of discovering and developing a shared language in software development teams, through Design deals in uncertainty, it’s an unavoidable consequence of any design endeavour.But designers, and IAs in particular have a responsibility to build meaning and trust through the processes they follow. Trajectories and the language of transitions are one way to explore meaning and standardise language.But they’re not magic.Stories only exist while they’re being told. Language only has meaning while it’s being shared or used. This article provides a quick overview of some of the ideas I’ve had around Trajectories. But I encourage you to experiment, develop and share your own approaches to using these ideas as you design. I also urge you to develop a shared language you can use with your stakeholders and colleagues to describe the experiences you design. This doesn’t mean developing or endorsing jargon. It’s more about precison and welcoming the question ‘what does that mean’. So if anything about trajectories or transitions remains unclear, please let me know.Im a Creative director at the BBC. I like words, design, data and magic. These are all my own views (apart from retweets. I borrowed those to look clever.)

Oh, General Assembly, what would I do without you? After working 8 months at tech/design/business school start-up I decided it was time take the next step in my life and enroll myself in the User Experience Design Immersive Program. The first week I had a few struggles thinking can I really do this? Can I be a good UX Designer? Do I even know what I’m doing? But after the help with my awesome instructors After my interview with Alyse I had to figure out what other apps were out there that had similar features. Narcos is a brand show just premiering several months ago after some research through the app store as well as resources from the internet I came to the conclusion that no app exists yet, allowing me complete creative freedom to concept fresh for Alyse.As I stated before that there is not Narcos app, I decided to compare other related apps to shows with similar themes. I decided to compare it to the Breaking Bad on the AMC app — for iOS. I realized that there were not many extra features other than cast and crew interviews and behind the scenes.Through my initial interview with Alyse I went over all the important things the app needed to include. Trying to avoid scope creep- since I can conceptualize a whole app I narrowed down the main points illustrated in the pictures below:After deciding what features Alyse sought out most I was able to write on post-its and organize them. I was luck to have her order her most important items that the app would have by sorting them “Must Have,” “Nice(to have),” and “Extra Cool(not mandatory)” features.Since we were only given a few days to come up with a concept I thought I could work on my sketching abilities and illustrate my ideas.Check out my clickable-prototype via Pop-App!User test with my personaObtain feedback in order to improve appAdding a Netflix log-in for easy access for the userAvoid making my own assumptions about user needs and behaviorUX  Interaction Designer | Los Angeles.

In our Second Era A process designed to find the best experience for people using your product, service or system.There are countless amazing resources to detail an in depth understandings of UX, but I’m going to outline something more bit size you can keep in your wallet. Borrowing the components from Many UX advocates, including This is your We’ve all had one of those thoughts like, “It would be so much better if doors with handles facing you were pull-only…” These moments are jumping off points for breaking out UX thinking!Presence of a UX strategist, UX Designer, or a Make UX specialists out of yourself and your staff; Get them asking questions from the user’s perspectives, or better yet, talking to the users regularly (social media, email, in person). Have team meetings where you experiment developing employee-generated ideas based on their experience with the product and the ongoing feedback they receive. And of course, lead by example. If they hear you talking about and making User Experience a priority, the design thinking is contagious and participatory by nature.Having all members of your team involved in some capacity throughout the UX process creates a unified goal and holistic “buy in”, and more importantly — the sum of the team’s knowledge and experience will make your organization or company that much more equipped to solving problems in a new and informed way.Before UX, we had “critical thinking skills”, or the “ability to think outside of the box”.I like Micheladas, the idea of road trips, DIVE-in movies, funny people, and learning new things.

The last week two intresseting post have showed up here on Medium debating the (bad) UX of Hyperlinks. And even if they are good and well thought through on a local scale I see plenty of problems with them on a global. So, for the new readers it started with Here is Drés Garcías picture of how a link would look (Taken from: In García’s solution we see the three icons Nash came up, always visible (compared to Nash’s own solution), indicating how the link is going to open on default and a hover action on the right part of the link for the user to choose how to he or she prefer to open it. Looks great on this example with three inline links — I agree!But now look at this, or any other site. Count the hyperlinks taking you to a new URL. The sites would be a mess of small little icons with hover action in the corner of every button waiting for the user to take an action. Of course we as designers and developers can choose if the link should display one of these icons, but by doing so we are back at the initial problem: Hyperlinks are unpredictable.Both previous posters have both also assumed we need three icons representing “Open in…” But the solutions given us also gives the user a opportunity to choose of they like to open the link. But as both previous authors stated: the solutions are already existent, the problem is they are not taught. Both authors and commenters on the previous posts states they are using Ctrl/Cmd + Click for opening links in a new tab and by doing so taking control of the link. That’s out solution. We also have scroll/middle-click (clicking the scroll on the mouse) that performs the same action. And not to mention Right clicking a link and choose “Open in…“. I myself on my Mac have installed a small little app called By surviving on what we already have, teach them who don’t know and only implement an indication for when the link is opening in a new tab/window we would save a lot of work for:Those are my thoughts of the UX of Hyperlinks. Do you agree?Interaction designer and web developer

Recientemente tuve esta discusión con un compañero de trabajo, sin embargo no llegamos a conclusiones contundentes y mas allá de imponer, quiero extender la discusión.Se me ocurrió comenzar con las definiciones de cada uno pero eso le quitaría la subjetividad con la que quiero escribir este articulo.Para mi un diseñador web es una persona que estudio diseño gráfico y que la web era solo una de sus aplicaciones como lo es la impresión o el video. Considero al diseño gráfico (al que se enseñaba en las universidades hace mas de 5 años) como un generador de imagen, de expresión de la marca, de acercamiento con el cliente, junto al marketing, eran quienes dictaban como se presentarían los productos al mercado.Los diseñadores web no deben, por el bien de todos, decidir un día que toda su experiencia en diseño web cuenta como experiencia en UX. Como cualquier persona de cualquier background, pueden elegir convertirse algo que tenga que ver con UX, como diseñador, information architect, user researcher, etc. pero por lo menos tienen que estudiar y aprender las bases teóricas y practicas de la disciplina. Comenzando por el entendimiento del diseño centrado en el usuario y sus métodos.Recalcando que esta es mi opinión y que tal vez muchos no estén de acuerdo, creo que en México, en este momento, las mejores bases para ser un UX en el sentido mas amplio, las la da la carrera de diseño industrial o diseño de producto. Sin mencionar carrera como diseño digital o integral.Creo que es mas fácil y rápido aprender código (html, css y js) al ser conocimientos exactos que siguen reglas y estándares, que aprender todo el proceso de diseño que lleva llegar a un buen producto (investigación, conceptualización, prototipado, pruebas, producción, branding, etc).Un diseñador de producto llega al puesto de UX con todas las bases para crear productos en base a los requerimientos del cliente, usuario, mercado y materiales, llega con la practica de saber que cada proyecto es diferente y puede llevar distintos materiales, usuarios, etc.Sin embargo los DIs tampoco pueden llegar así de la nada y decidir ser UX, a pesar de que nuestra practica se centra en el usuario, hay algunas cosas que no se llaman iguales, por ejemplo tendríamos que cambiar:To sum up, si quieres ser UX comienza pro las bases de diseño centrado en el usuario (google UCD), continua por la usabilidad (lee Don’t make me think), aprende algunas herramientas (Axure, Invision, Sketch) y rediseña algunas paginas usando todo lo anterior.UX Designer and blogger.

Friday, 16 Oct 2015, I went to It was a straight 22 hours marathon for me since I travelled Iași-Bucharest-Iași in the same day. Actually I’m really glad how nowadays it’s possible to travel this route in one go, since otherwise it would have been a very long journey.Initially I had mixed feelings about the conference since being the “first UX conference in Romania” I would have expected to have some Romanians as presenters. Still I am not much surprised about not having any Romanian presenter since there are not that many UX positions in Romania (so not that many people are specialising in this field). The good part about this is that the few people acting in this specialisation are passionate about what we do, we continue to grow and I’m sure in a couple of years we will be able to handle our own conferences.Also, I hoped we will not have any “commercial” presentations like we can see in some free conferences. In this regard the conference was stellar, although this was not a free one. The speakers were AMAZING, but actually looking at the panel it would have been hard to be otherwise.Ingrid talked about her experience in redesigning the culture of customer experience in big companies in the health industry.She also mentioned the importance of rewarding the first follower when trying to be a leader, since without followers there are no leaders.Her talk contained lots of small funny stories and quotes. One of my favourite was comparing doing design with playing “whack a mole”. Designers come up with an idea, put it out there and then they try to dodge people smashing that idea up.I was very impressed with Ingrid and she was so kind to give me so much of her time. Being also the only woman presenter in the panel I was particular interested in finding out tips on customer experience and life. It’s inspiring and refreshing to see world class successful women and all her success was driven by the desire to do good.Karl talked about the power of interactions that facilitate external and internal representations and help the users solve problems faster. He mentioned some techniques to improve making sense of our chaotic environments like fragmenting, probing, chunking, rearranging the data.Jeroen gave examples of companies that craft their websites to match their brand personality.Steve mentioned on his gorgeous slides the four questions he asks users on every project:Mike presented the audience with Semantic Web concepts. It was also nice to see an updated Linked Open Data cloud.Geoff talked about the first hardware product done by Adobe, presenting their prototyping process when designing the Adobe Ink  Slide. It all started with using Arduino in their early prototypes.Josh talk had a full hour showing products that have physical interaction with a digital API, like Wayfindr, Automatic, Flic.io, etc. It’s great to see the world around us evolve and I’m curious what products we will have in the next years. Great presentation and show.Regarding organisation there were some few problems, but giving the fact that this was the first one, everything went pretty smooth. I think the biggest problem was the absence of wireless connection in the presentations room. The location and the food was great.I participated only in the Conference day since the workshop tickets were already sold out when I decided to go. I hope I will get someone to tell me how they went.In conclusion, the first edition of UX Bucharest was stellar. It really felt as an international conference and I enjoyed every moment there. Thank you.Interaction Designer at XWiki

________________A litany of tools exist to help UX designers transition from static wireframes to an interactive prototype, which can be used for testing with users to validate design decisions and help clarify how a website will function to a client. Testing a prototype using a dedicated program rather than building out a design on the web can help save time and money for both the designer and the client while checking for usability problems. The variety of UX prototyping programs available can seem daunting, but each program has its own pros and cons, and after understanding the basics of what each program offers choosing what is right for your design team will be much simpler.In this two-part series, I will focus on the expansive world of UX prototyping tools. To help better understand what’s out there, I’ve separated the tools into two camps:In the this article, I’ll be taking a closer look at three of the better hot spot-based UX prototyping tools we’ve tested: With hot spot-based UX prototyping software, designers can create functional prototypes by importing existing UX wireframes designed in applications like Omingraffle, InDesign, or Illustrator then lay “hot spots” on top of them so that when users click in different places, page wireframes will transition to the next screen or state of the prototype. The main advantage of using this type of UX prototyping software is that it makes developing prototypes for user testing incredibly easy because designers can use use their program of choice for building out the wireframes they want to to test. The learning curve for these programs also tends to be lower than full-blown UX design  prototyping tools, so working prototypes can be generated quickly. The main disadvantage is that these prototyping apps are fairly limited in the types of interactions and transitions that can be shown since each element in the wireframe cannot be controlled individually.So, with this all having been said, let’s jump right in. Here’s our quick roundup of the 3 best UX prototyping tools that use the “hot spot” approach that we’ve tested out:The program you choose will depend on a number of factors: namely, the process you’re using and where prototyping and testing fits within it and the nature of the website or app you will be testing. In Cause-Driven Brand Strategy  Interactive Design for Nonprofits, Education, and Social Innovation. 

Haftalık derlenen UX ve UI tasarım notları. UX süreçleri, araçları, tasarım fikirleri.UX Notları mail listesine göstermiş olduğunuz ilgiden dolayı teşekkürler! Haftalık mailleri, her Cumartesi gönderiyorum. UX Notları mail listesine Haftalık derlemelerimi beğeniyorsanız, bu yazıyı UI designer, developer. Co-founder of Haftalık derlenen UX ve UI tasarım notları. UX süreçleri, araçları, tasarım fikirleri.

Cool list, but it cannot be ignored that the discourse on UX is so male and so white. This list included 1 female authored piece in the top 10 and a total of ~16 female co/authored pieces out of 50 resources. How many people of color are represented in this reading list? How many trans writers are included?curious cat. lover of pizza. works in software testing. thinks about intersections of technology and society. advocates for girls in tech, mental health.

This is a Christmas story recreated from the actual experiences I had spending most of my childhood living in the US. While mostly just a guess, thinking back on it now, I realize that Santa Claus himself may be one the best User Experience Designers there is.Every year around this time, the town I lived in is decorated throughout with lots of gorgeous Christmas illuminations. The people living around the Elementary School I attended would work together to transform their entire neighborhood into a gorgeous work of art. I’ll never forget the joy of looking at the wonderful decorations each year while in the car with my mother and sister, on our way back from school.Each year there would almost certainly be a towering 4-story Christmas tree set in the center of our local shopping mall, and as Christmas Eve drew closer, Santa Claus would make his appearance when the time came.Once Santa Claus has made his appearance, all the children would line up to sit on Santa’s lap to talk with him as well as take a photo. Children also had to tell Santa what they wanted for Christmas, so I thought deeply on what I wanted while waiting.Our turn. As my sister and I approached Santa, he greeted us with a wide smile and a warm hug. As our parents were busy taking all the photos they could get, Santa asked us both a few questions.I remember passionately communicating my desire for a toy popular at the time. Santa laughed and said he’d think about it, and my sister, family, and waved goodbye to Santa as we left.Christmas was just a few days away. I couldnt help but count down the days as I day dreamed about what gifts Santa would bring for my sister and I and how I was sure he was getting them ready just that moment.Santa Claus must be extremely busy. After all, he has to give each child in the world a Christmas gift. Since Santa has to handle as many gifts as there are children in the world, I’m positive he keeps organized by tagging each gift uniquely based on inventory so as not to confuse them, probably around this time each year.Those tags are sure to have each child’s name, age, country, address, and present contents listed on them.Just how did Santa Claus manage to get those Christmas gifts to my sister and me for Christmas? It’s obvious that each house is different from the next, so can he use the same method of getting the Christmas gift inside for each house?Santa Claus must think of the best ways of getting each gift to each child. He is sure to also run simulations in order to figure this out. My sister and I also wanted to help him out, so we opened the window curtains a little on Christmas Eve to make sure he knew which house this was and could get here without getting lost.Santa is sure to come. But when will he really get here? As we rubbed our sleepy eyes, we waited like good little boys and girls for him to come, so we could say “Thank You”. We worried that he might have gotten lost, and while sharing our anxiety, we eventually both fell asleep.When I awoke in the morning, I found a Christmas gift next to my pillow. I wonder just when it was put there? He must have known around what time we would fall asleep. Rushing to open the present, I quickly discovered that the present was not what I had been hoping for, but instead cool soccer shoes. I wonder if Santa chose it because he knew it was my dream at the time to become a professional soccer player one day.I’ll never forget what it felt like to get such an unexpected Christmas gift. Santa chose not to give me what I wanted now, but what I thought I needed for the future. I’m sure he was watching along to my reaction from afar that day.While I can only guess, thinking back on it now, I realize that Santa Claus himself may be one the best User Experience Designers there is.All of this should require diligent scenario planning. He also needs to accurately assess each child’s personality to make sure the gift is just right, and even has to learn the child’s lifestyle in order to figure out the best way of getting the present to the perfect spot without waking him or her up.Couldnt this be considered a practical application of I believe that Santa Claus is truly a master of User Experience Designer, based on how he works from the meeting the children, in scenario design, and all the way up to strategic considerations. While I can’t speak for the industry as a whole, I personally feel that there is much to be learned from the passion and kindness that Santa utilizes in bringing about the happiness and laughter of “children” (“users” in the context of HCD / UX Design). Every UX Designer should be like Santa Claus.What kind of gift does he or she prefer? What would meet or exceed his or her expectations? How should it be distributed? What if this gift was your product or service? This UX lessons learned might just be the real Christmas gift Santa gave to me.To all the children of the world — Merry Christmas.Mario Kazumichi SAKATAUser Experience Designer / Product Owner based in Tokyo

One of the most common design interview questions is: The question might also come in a variety of different forms or expressions like the following:It’s an overused interview question, and to be honest, I rarely ask interviewees about what design tools they use. However, it can still be a valuable question for many reasons.A design team usually has shared design libraries, which contain guidelines and standards that the team members created in certain tools, and maybe template assets they want a new member to go with it and also contribute. That’s why interviewers from the design team would ask about the tools that you use. It’s very important that you agree with the team on this for collaboration.Sometimes your interviewers are actually your prospective (extended) team members, who may be product managers, software engineers, researchers, marketing specialists and/or other related product personnel. They would ask this also for collaboration purposes; however, they are more concerned about the final delivery formats.An interview isn’t just a chance for a hiring manager to grill you; it’s an opportunity to sniff out whether a job is the right fit for you. I have a friend who turned down an offer simply because she didn’t believe in designing with PowerPoint, which was the only tool that company was using for UX design. I know it sounds unbelievable, but it is a true story!During an interview, your job is to sell yourself. A design interview is a perfect chance to show off your knowledge of UX and your fit for the role, by telling stories about your design process. Every designer has his or her own unique way to work around solving design problems. Talking about the tools you use to perform various assignments will help your interviewers to understand how you work.The answer to this question, as it is for many questions, is: I sketch with paper and pen. There are many I use Besides the popularly used Adobe Creative Cloud and It’s easier to communicate design ideas with a click-through prototype, and get valuable feedbacks from others. I use applications like In addition to the above, I would also pick 2 to 3 specific projects to talk about, where I choose one tool or method over another for certain situations.Be direct and honest. Tell them if you’ve never used it. Interviewers don’t always expect you to be skillful in using every tool; they’re looking for someone who can admit with confidence, “I have never tried, but I’m a fast learner.” If they mention a tool you’ve never heard of, take a mental note and look it up for next time. Since the UX industry evolves over time, you want to showcase your willingness to learn new techniques, and emphasize your enthusiasm for catching up with the latest design trend, quickly learning a new tool, and seamlessly integrating yourself into the daily aspects of a new workplace environment. It shows a strong work ethic and talent.Furthermore, be prepared to talk about some trending design apps, such as these apps listed in the section I clipped from one of Product designer who is obsessed with handcrafting, world traveling , yoga, photography, food, arts, music, tech. Follow me on Finding a buried UX design treasure is like hunting for truffles. The process is challenging and time consuming, but the reward is precious and often worth sharing.

In June, Edinburgh played a sun-drenched host to the 3rd edition of UX Scotland (totalling a 100% hit rate of good weather for the conference over the years, which for those who know Scotland will attest to being very lucky). Attendees from the UK and Europe flocked to Our Dynamic Earth to hear a host of speakers talk UX.Attempting to pull together themes from a conference runs the risk of creating arbitrary connections and categories. However, over the two days of attending, I noted four particular strands:It’s been exactly 30 years since Neil Postman’s book She used this as a jumping off point to consider the potential dark side of current trends in UX when it comes to attention — when we’re talking about getting people hooked to digital services, are we doing more damage than we realise? Actions such as allowing for a bit of disappointment are similar to the techniques casinos use to hook gamblers, and high adrenaline activities such as Tinder can ramp up various hormones in people to unheard of levels. She didn’t have any answers, but did caution designers to be more mindful of what they could be creating.Agile is going well and truly mainstream now, and a lot of talks reflected the tension between UX (which does well in waterfall as it gives designers time to think) and agile. There’s still an uneasy tension between the two, though more recent developments such as Lean UX and Google Ventures Design Sprints are doing more to mitigate this.This was done most emphatically with There’s been a call as of late for designers to make sure they have a seat at the boardroom table to get decisions done, and a number of talks discussed ways to get there. Knowing how to improve one’s career path was also covered with Rachel Daniel and Amanda Stockwell’s talk For an industry that is still very much learning its trade, it’s important to recognise the value of practical talks on specific tools. There were a number of talks that picked a particular area of work, be it remote usability testing, running workshops, or working with a recruiter for user research participants.In fact, the conference kicked off on a practical note — specifically practical creativity. Dan Saffer (who I Rachel Littlefair’s talk A lot of it comes down, unsurprisingly, to managing expectations and having a clear brief. And also allowing for time — in general you need at least 2 working weeks to get the right people (even longer if it’s a niche group), and you also need to be aware of timings (getting teachers during the summer break probably isn’t easy if you ask once school is already out).Finally, Orange Bus UXer working in government, Northumbria University PhD student, NUX NCL organiser. Kiwi, visa-holding UK immigrant.Writing about the premier UX conference happening in — you guessed it — Scotland.

I’ve owned an iPhone 5 for the last two years. I’ve watched Apple present new technology and improve upon their iPhone line time and time again. With the announcement of the iPhone 6 and the release of iOS8, some small part of me snapped in two and I decided it was time that I left my journey with Apple for something better.My reasons for leaving the iPhone for an Android device are slightly irrelevant here and won’t be a primary focus. This article is intended to provide a brief overview of the user experience differences I noticed in the first couple days of owning a I’ll be the first person to admit that there is a bias in this article. As I mentioned above, I left the iPhone with the intent of finding something better. As a natural result of this, my Pros list for switching to Android is lengthier.These following Pros are those that I found really impacted my user experience almost right away after using the device.The following Cons are the negative experiences that I had during my initial switch. Many of these are related to Apple’s incredible ability to maintain appearance and visual consistency in their devices. As a creative and visually oriented person, these are very important aspects in how software experience is handled.I began this article explaining that this list is biased. What I’d really like to explore now that my initial experience has ended is the migration in the opposit direction. Perhaps one of my fellow Android users will decide that Apple is offering them something more useful. If and when that day arrives, I intend to observe carefully to help curb some of my bias. Smart phones have evolved into such powerful tools and I’m incredibly excited to see where the next big iteration takes us.I’m a Junior Front-End Developer working for Front-End Developer at Norex, aspiring User Interface Designer.

Actually no, it is just good for its purposeA couple of days ago, Wikileaks cables from the Saudi Foreign Ministry, under the name In the last 40 years, Saudi Arabia continued to play a major role in the Middle Eastern politics, that’s journalists and bloggers all over the region are keeping an eye on those cables trying to find all useful information there.Trying to find out useful stuff myself, I noticed the following.Nevertheless, the most important point in my opinion, is that Wikileaks serves as a news source. Thus, they just list the cables there for Journalists to use them however they want. All cables are treated equally, no matter if it is an important document or just a scanned page of someones passport. No sorting order based on their importance whatsoever. No grouping based on topics, just basic search.For me as a user, I have no interest in cables, I have more interest in topics. I’d like to be able to list topics mentioned in cables, and each topic can have reference to one or many cables.I thus tried to sketch a better way to show the Saudi Cables, or any other future cables.It would be good to have a platform where users can create topics out of the published cables. In that topic, the creator can list all related cables with some short description why they find them related.Other users, come to read topics, not cables. Then visit the cables each topic is referring as a second step. They also can up-vote topics, so we have a meaningful way of showing topics by their importance.Who shall develop this idea further? Probably not Wikileaks, but I don’t know who yet. Newspapers and media outlets play part of this role of turning cables into topics, but I don’t think they should be trusted nor left as the only players here.Anyway, I’d love to hear your comments on this.MSc. Data Mining, Taking on the problems and challenges in journalism. Spreading ideas, passions and new ways of thinking of journalism.

Last week, as I was having a haircut at the saloon near the office, I realised how similar UX design and hair styling are, despite the obvious difference of one of them being focused on hair.As I was sitting in front of the mirror, awkwardly avoiding staring at myself, I focused on the amount of hair Jac (lets call him Jac) was cutting from the back of my head. “More! Cut More!” I screamed inside my head, “If you don’t, I’ll have to spend a lot of time ironing it every morning!”.My requirements were simple: Cut lots from the back (so I don’t have to iron it for a while), cut just the necessary from the front right (I don’t mind ironing that bit) and cut a lot from the front left (but don’t forget to give the right shape around the ear).Jac was being a professional, demonstrating all his expertise in cutting and styling hair, but he still wouldn’t listen to my requirements and eventually cut more from the back of my head. That’s when it occurred to me: “If Jac listens to my requirements I won’t have to work too hard every morning to get my hair as I like it”. Just like my job: if I do a good job and listen to my customers’ requirements, they won’t have to work too hard to get the results they want. And I realised haircuts have a lot in common with UX:As per my haircut, Jac did his work using his experience and professional judgement, but this means I have to iron the back of my head every morning. User requirement not met, so I’ll have to get another haircut sooner than expected, probably not by Jac…Lead UX 

Mnoho zložitejších webových stránok má niekoľko cieľových skupín s rozdielnými potrebami. Jedni hľadajú len otváracie hodiny prevádzky, druhí si chcú prečítať detailné informácie o procese výroby alebo nakupovať v e-shope. Obe skupiny sú však dôležité, a je potrebné im relevantné informácie umiestniť na niektorú zo stránok webu. Keď chcete vyhovieť všetkým a kombinujete rôzne druhy obsahov, vzniká tak obrovská webová štruktúra, ktorá v konečnom dôsledku nie je jednoduchá ani pre jednu cieľovú skupinu. Pritom pozitívne UX je determinované práve prehľadnosťou a relevantnosťou obsahu. Ako teda možno obslúžiť všetky cieľové skupiny a pritom zaručiť prehľadnosť?Prvým nástrojom je správne nastavená Informačná architektúra je veľmi efektívny nástroj a dokáže spríjemniť každému zákazníckemu segmentu pohyb po webe. Dnešný UX dizajn však posúva štruktúrovanie obsahu ešte ďalej. Pomocou CEM nástroje fungujú tak, že sledujú zákazníkov pohyb po stránke v čase a podsúvajú mu relevantný obsah. Takýto zákazník však nemusí byť identifikovaný e-mailom, ani prihlásením do webstránky. CEM nástroje dokážu predikovať cieľovú skupinu podľa aktuálneho správania.Pár príkladov z praxe:Personalizačné mechanizmy majú veľmi široké možnosti. Upravovať napr. navigáciu alebo kľúčovú časť stránky podľa segmentu zákazníka môže byť nebezpečné. Takéto zásahy používateľa zneistia, má pocit, že je sledovaný alebo ho zmätú. Na druhej strane ponúkať zákazníkovi relevantný obsah vrátane správnych call to action buttonov, zľavových ponúk a pod., je pre zákazníka prínosné.Personalizácia je určite budúcnosť UX spolu s kontextovými používateľskými rozhraniami. Zákazníci budú očakávať, že digitálne nástroje im budú ponúkať relevantný obsah pre daný čas a miesto. To možno odsledovať aj z posledných predstavených produktov We are a User Experience studio with strong focus on user research and user testing. 

And why we need to think about ethics in UX design more than ever…From Wikipedia:Now let’s think about the expectations we have set for robots, and replace the word with UX designers when it comes to the work that they do.I believe that in an ideal world the UX designer’s first responsibility is to the users, and then to the client. When we start putting the client before the users then it seems rather facetious to keep the UX in the title just so you can charge more moneyAsimov also added a fourth, or zeroth law, to precede the others:I hope that in the age where digital and information technology is driving many of the significant changes in society and our way of life, UX designers are not the ones that will cause harm because of a clear lack of ethical and moral standards to guide our practice.The answer lies in the question(in association with the University of Hard Knocks Press)

In my old job I had a customer request to capture Gender when customers are signing up to a mailing list. This lead me to question whether or not you really need to capture gender for many, if any, valid reasons. Ignoring that question, if we do genuinely need to capture gender for some reason, the next question is what inputs are valid for the best UX.Gender is a problematic when someone is being signed up by a third party. Does the customer service rep ask the individual in front of them “what is your gender?” or do they simple guess based on what the individual looks like / is wearing? If the individual then receives a communication indicating the wrong gender then that is a horrible user experience.Getting back to the sign up process — what genders should be an option.My original thoughts were “Male” “Female” “Other” and “Not Specified” with the default being Not Specified. This feel should also be optional, rather than mandatorily requiring a response other than “Not Specified”. I then spoke to a trans-friend who enlightened me on the “Non-Binary” option. After some research I decided that the option other should be replaced with non-binary. The most flexible solution, that would provide the best UX would be to enable users to enter whatever they like, but as a third party would be entering this information closed options were required.I then had to create my user story for the wall: “R wants to enter a non-binary gender so that…”, however I wasn’t quite sure how to end that sentence. I opened it up to twitter, and received some interesting responses.Other responses included:I appealed to the legal aspect, that we have to do this so we aren’t discriminatory, to the number of trans and inter-sex individuals in Australia and to the fact that Australian passports accept genders of Male, Female and X so that we should too. And I got the change in!This post originally appeared on my blog Proud 

Most security issues can be traced back to one single reason: people doing stupid things. Opening phishing links. Clicking “Proceed” in the SSL warning. Setting lame passwords. Disabling the firewall on their computers. Do they do that because they are actually stupid? Well, usually not. The reason is much more simple: people don’t want to “do security”.When you buy computer, it is never your goal to set up a firewall, or update your OS. You want to play games, download stuff, do your banking. When you register to a dating site, it’s never your goal to set a strong password. You want to get laid. The third most frequent password set by Ashley Madison users was “pussy”. I think that shows what I mean: Whenever you have a clear goal and a strong drive to get there, anything comes in between you and that goal, you just want to get over it, constantly thinking about the goal you want to reach.To create a system that is secure on the user level (i.e. the user actually uses it in a secure way), you have to understand the goals and tasks of your user very thoroughly, and try not to get in their way with your alerts, blocks, notifications and errors. People only think about their goals, and they always go for the easiest way. It’s the design- and the security people’s shared task to make sure that the easiest way is also the most secure, or the most secure way is the easiest. There is even a best-practice framework for this, called security by designation, with quite a proven track record. And yes, it’s a design technique.Most designers think that security is something that is to be added to a product later on, after their job is already done, and, preferably, by somebody else. Now think about this for a second (and let me borrow an example for that):A huge part of security lives in the expectations of the user: a software, website or service can be considered secure (or insecure) based on what the user thinks about it. And whose job is it again to communicate and express to the user how the software works and what to expect from it? Yep, the designers.The understanding of your software by your users as a secure one is a hugely important part of your UX. It’s not 1995 anymore. People care about their data. They understand that it’s valuable. They either trust you with it or not. And there are very few people out there designing things that don’t require user data. So if you want people to trust you, it’s an absolute must to make sure users feel safe and secure there. And every single Ashley Madison type of breach will raise this security and privacy awareness.ReferencesPsychologist, UX guy at BalaBit IT Security. If I read stuff, I start thinking. Than I start talking. It’s really annoying. Posting here seems more healthy.

User experience design has been a uniquely emerging profession in the last 20 years. It is more similar in nature to engineering, rather than design, in terms of how much information architecture and problem solving skills are involved in the process. There are some unique aspects of UX design that make it difficult for designers to get inspirations at random to apply to their projects. There is an overwhelming amount of online resources, galleries, and blogs — we will never lack information in this era — so the emphasis should be on where to find good ones and how to use them.Some sites are perfect when you kind of have a direction but no solid idea of what to do. Here’s a good example of finding inspiration using Pinterest: I wanted to recycle my magazines, so I searched “paper crafts DIY” and I ended up making these decorative drink coasters and paper flowers.However, UX design always comes with a guideline from the product managers. Every now and then, a product manager will tell you, I’ve been using Dribbble only to incorporate the latest visual design trends into my projects; but most of the time, I just use Google. Yes, just Google! Simply Googling keywords like, “something ui design” will get you not only some real examples but also good reading material.Do you critique on the results from Google Images? Most of the examples might be outdated but they are usually classic UIs that people have been using for years. The crucial skill you need to develop as a UX designer is learning to identify good designs from the bad ones.Do you read the basics about the design patterns or the design theory that you are trying to follow? It might be super simple, but sometimes you just need a little refreshment and keep up with new design techniques or trends (not only the visual trends), if you want to be in the game in this fast-paced world.If you are lucky and you get some “Go crazy” project, check out this collection of some of the best sites to boost your creativity:Product designer who is obsessed with handcrafting, world traveling , yoga, photography, food, arts, music, tech. Follow me on Finding a buried UX design treasure is like hunting for truffles. The process is challenging and time consuming, but the reward is precious and often worth sharing.

Entonces, ¿por qué los periódicos son deshonestos contigo e interrumpen tu lectura con interstitials, publicidad con sonido activado, banners dentro del contenido, varios anuncios de 30 segundos antes de ver un vídeo como hace Mediaset con Cuatro y Telecinco… ?O directamente, ¿por qué publican noticias pagadas disfrazadas de actualidad que sólo deberían estar en una sección patrocinada aparte?Si te suscribes a un periódico online y luego quieres cancelar tu suscripción, ¿por qué te obligan a llamarles por teléfono? Lo hacen muchos como por ejemplo el mitificado (a veces con razón) New York Times.Y si vamos más allá, ¿por qué amparan delitos aceptando anuncios de prostitución? La La respuesta es sencilla: te “maltratan” por dinero.Sí, es complicadísimo ahora. Un ejemplo de estos días de contenido pagado:Sin pudor:No estoy en contra de la publicidad. Las bases del periodismo y de cualquier negocio de servicio público radican en:Sorkin y Newsroom lo dicen mejor. Diálogos que hablan de las bases y funciones del periodismo:La falta de respeto de la publicidad con el usuario también sucede en televisiónEsos cortes de publicidad en medio de cualquier escena o diálogo de serie o película que dejan a un personaje con la palabra en la boca, ¿no te sacan de quicio? Da igual que sea la escena cumbre.-”Venimos en 7 minutos…”Y ahí es cuando das gracias a Netflix o Hulu (que pone anuncios donde tocan) o a ¡Infame!Digital Business + DesignEstrategia, modelos de negocio, documentación de procesos y creación de contenidos

UX, or User Experience, has become a sort of buzzword in the tech world. Over the years I’ve seen people shudder at the sheer mention of the term. There’s no shortage of articles online from A customer’s experience shouldn’t depend on a single team. Great UX means great design, solid engineering, thoughtful content, and perhaps most importantly: all the details in between. We are all responsible.Inattention to a customer experience is not limited to tech. While UX, as a term, was coined by the digital world, it has My boyfriend and I are house hunting. We’ve been through dozens of houses (our realtor is very patient). I’ve spent hundreds of hours obsessing about layouts, living flows, and square footage. Which reminded me of (you guessed it) user experience design.Why does UX at home matter if you’re not selling it on a daily basis? If you’re going to live in one, you want it to be the best fit for your lifestyle. When you do go to sell, it could mean the difference between selling in 3 days versus 30 days. It could mean tens of thousands of dollars in your pocket or out of pocket if someone isn’t willing to pay for the experience of living in your home every day.There were some things that really stood out as UX fails:It doesn’t matter who is responsible for these kinds of mistakes. If the end user experience sucks, a customer won’t buy the house.Online commerce has long been focused on user experience, because it had to be. In the beginning, users didn’t like using their credit cards online, so we made it secure. As business owners became more aware of abandoned cart rates and missed conversions, we removed barriers in the checkout process and added incentives to buy.It seems, however, that our friends in brick and mortar aren’t always as committed to every individual customer’s experience.Online customer experiences are easier to control and keep consistent. Every online customer of a store is set up to have an identical experience (assuming no multivariate testing). Each visitor is greeted the same way, receives the same information, and ultimately has a similar experience. If we’re alerted to a kink in the overall experience, it can often be fixed quickly.In store, you rely on staff to provide this consistency. You hand-select people, you train them, and you empower and trust them. Humans are far from infallible, but it is possible to control the in-store customer experience. Starbucks is a perfect example. Nordstrom and Apple have built successful stores by The customer experience is It doesn’t matter where you are on the company ladder, you are responsible for the experience. Advocate for the experience with your team. Request more time for research, because unless you are the product’s target customer, you can’t build the perfect experience in your bubble. Show everyone you care about UX.Product Marketer and UX Enthusiast | Telfer alum | unicorn

This is not about how, if or why I like it, and if you should get one. That you should decide for yourself. This is about what I think is missing in the Apple Watch User Experience. Every time when I hear myself asking “Why isn’t that in there? Other apps have that…”Why do you not have one wire to run them both? You always need an iPhone for your watch right? Why not have one charger? You’re paying a butload of money for a watch, why not include an extra lightning plug for a couple of dollars more and improve the experience significantly?The activity app is beautiful, detecting your activities, like walking, running, cycling or sprinting up stares like a little kid (what I do). I’d like to go that extra mile to fulfill my activities, because I’m a geek like that. Only the last time I’m only losing from the machine on my wrist. I started pretty moderately high and ambitious, but now I’m at 35% of that initial move goal. While I’m a really active person (cycling like The software and thus the watch should learn. If it’s not sure what you did for the last 30 minutes, it should ask you: “Hey you weren’t happen to be on a bicycle just now, paddling your brains out? Yes/No”. And no I’m not going to start my activity tracker every time I go cycling around the block. I only do this when walking, running or cycling for more than 10 minutes, which works great.I assume your phone and watch are working together in the activity tracker software, if your phone is in your pocket it can detect movements as wel. Combine these two activities and you have a better understanding what you did. It’s not that hard is it Apple? Or, you could buy or license Building on the previous, have users add activities manually and add it to your daily overview. You made a not so much, but actually pretty well waterproof watch (IPX7 under IEC standard 60529). I’m swimming with my watch, but I rather not… sort of. And when I’m missing im using the ‘other activity’, but prefer to use that for other sweaty activities hahaha ;).But it’s better to just be able to say to the Watch, I did 20 minutes of swimming today, or Just what I like with the Mailbox app, it now needs two tedious taps to remove notifications from the overview. Notifications do not even have the ‘priority value’ of an email, because it’s not the source, it’s just the messenger. But Apple designers made it so important they need two taps. Why? If they don’t want to change, maybe include a button at the top or bottom ‘seen all notifications’.If you happen to receive only notifications from apps you actually want to read in your phone (As the watch is just a neat little reminder). It should be possible to ‘open this on your phone directly’ button. Handoff kind of style, but then without developers having to implement hand off.It would be nice to control the watch without any finger. Ok, I know this is farfetched, but think about it. This device can detect really precise movements. How about a quick shake of your wrist or hand to see more of the page or text you’re reading. Like flip it up or down to scroll down. When you’re cycling or you have something in your hand. I know what you’re thinking, you can use your nose, ok that’s true haha.This is probably coming with third party apps, have you do something specific with the accelerometer and have the software ‘do the talking’.If you’re like me you do not use the favorites side button. Do you? You just go to the specific (call or message) app on your phone. I’m interested in the data if and how users create a text from the watch, or if they call. I want to be able to change what you open with pressing the button. Maybe it’s the activity tracker, maybe it’s another app. Next to that, there’s no use that pressing it twice. There’s for holding it, that makes sense.making technology come alive 〰 initiating 

I am a deeply curious person by nature.I’m currently embarking on a journey into User Experience (UX) Research and Design, and I’m really excited about being able to flex my research muscles again. UX is all about gaining insights into how people occupy, understand, and attribute meaning to the world they live in and taking that information and applying it to the development of products that not only make their lives easier, but provide a delightful (to employ my favourite new buzzword) experience.People fascinate me to no end, and I especially love those moments where you realise someone’s perception of the world is so different to your own that it challenges you to examine your own core notions of reality. This is what I loved most about studying anthropology, and I was lucky to have the privilege to indulge my curiosity for half a decade, before heading out into the ‘real world’.I became interested in the depth of meaning behind the interaction between people and technology while undertaking ethnographic research for my master’s project, for which I examined narrative identity strategies used by Filipina women who had married New Zealand men.Many of my participants had met their partners online, and since moving to New Zealand, continued to utilise technology to maintain relationships with friends and family. Now that I am a migrant myself, I too have felt the bittersweet emotions that come with being able to connect with people over skype for a coffee and a chat, or even sharing the last four christmases with my family over a screen and an internet connection.Experiences such as these result in such technology carrying meaning to its users beyond simply being able to see one another via video — but offer the ability to connect, to share, and to be a part of moments that are occurring across space. If technology is to offer us better ways of taking part, then those who are developing it need to be across what it means to people.And I am excited to become a part of that.Ever curious anthropologist, blogger, and Oxford comma fangirl. Interested in UX research  design.

Here’s a question: looking solely at salaries, which are the best cities for a UX designer be based in?I’m focusing only on base employee salaries here. I’m not considering freelancing rates, nor bonuses or equity. I’m using several resources to estimate a roughly accurate salary for each location. The hypothetical UX designer archetype I’m using here has senior level job experience, and good skills. Although I’ve put a lot of effort into coming up with a figure which is as accurate as possible… this is still just guesswork, and these are only ballpark figures..So how did I calculate the numbers? Let’s say it’s an educated guess.Ultimately what I am looking to find here is a relative number which will allow me to Comfortably the best salaries for talented UX designers come out of San Francisco and the Valley. The salaries, along with the apartment rental prices, have skyrocketed in the past few years. San Francisco and the Bay Area is probably the best place today for UX designers if you are looking for a interesting job offers and a great salary. I’ve even heard stories about UX designers who are earning more than the CEO of their company, which is pretty crazy.Unsurprisingly, the financial capital of the world also offers tremendous possibilities for UX designers. There are almost In London, you can probably find the highest density of UX designer jobs in Europe. That’s well deserved: London has become Europe’s startup capital in the past few years. The high density of designers and the events turns the city into a really great location for designers — and companies as well! But UX salaries appear low when compared to the cost of living, which is slightly lower than SF. That combination of salary and — especially the — bad weather makes it less appealing destination for me personally.The German capital is one of the growing tech hubs in Europe and it offers a lot of opportunities for UX designers. There are plenty of startups and medium-to-large companies looking to invest into design. Compared to London, the cost of living is significantly lower which will make Berlin a more attractive destination for many people.The tech scene in Budapest is growing smoothly. The headquarters of The local tech community here is strong and has Hong Kong’s tech scene is growing rapidly, but so far it is quite a way behind the big tech hubs (Bay Area, London, Berlin, etc). The salary is still quite good, however.The cost of living can be quite high in HK, especially if you’re living on the island itself, but the friendly tax rate somewhat compensates for this.The Singaporean job market is very broad and there are several job adverts ranging from 30,000 to 100,000 USD. This makes it extremely hard to suggest a precise number. This was the only city I researched where I couldn’t find many articles and research on salaries. I’d speculate that this is probably because of the small number of UX design practitioners in Singapore. I ended up with the 80k figure after reviewing salary guides published by bigger HR agencies like As with Hong Kong, the Singaporean UX market is still growing. There are not hundreds of job listings but as more and more companies discover the value of great design, you can expect to see more job opportunities here in the future.The cost of living and tax rate situation is also very similar to Hong Kong.That’s a very revealing question! Taxation makes a big difference to your take-home pay, and can vary hugely between countries. Let’s see how our chart looks when I add post-tax salaries into the mix.Of course, we have to remember that European countries have medical coverage and insurance which is deducted from salary in the form of taxes.Average CPI+Rent does not, of course, equate to the minimum amount you need in order to live in each of these cities. It’s just an indication of the comparative cost of living in each of them.I wanted to find a way to visualize which city could be the “winner” if we looked solely at financial costs and compensation. Looking at this chart, Hong Kong is extremely appealing.So let’s look at what other conclusions we can draw…And considering the high tax-rates in EU countries, the difference is even more exaggerated. If you’re a UX designer in the US, these salaries alone shouldn’t tempt you to relocate.I am not saying that the salaries in Europe are bad, actually they are still fair and many would consider them comfortable in order for you to make a decent living. It just makes me wonder why this difference is so huge. Are we seeing an overcompensated and unsustainable salary war happening in these locations, or is this the future for highly desirable digital professional careers of this sort?This isn’t a shocking result, however; I am actually more interested in the difference between Western Europe and US, and what’s causing this…When compared to the cost of living, UX designers seem to be much less generously compensated. What’s going on?Another thing which is hard not to see is the gap between the Western European capitals (London, Berlin) and Eastern Europe (Budapest). I think that the huge difference in GDP between these locations offers an explanation for this.In general, the Hong Kong and Singapore startup culture seems to be a lagging behind a little. I got this same impression from my trips to these cities last year, and conversations I had with designers while I was there, Don’t get me wrong, it is growing nicely, but the tech scene is just not that well developed yet. I would predict that UX designer jobs and salaries will grow in the next few years, as the market matures.So how do I feel about this? Well, that doesn’t really matter, the market and supply  demand will dictate the prices. What I find interesting, is to see how these salaries will look like compared to each other in — let’s say — 5 years from now?Budapest photo by Dom Crossley Berlin photo by Phili UX Designer @ Hanno — I build products.Designing the world we want to live in. Here’s how our remote, self-managed team 

米国の良記事を翻訳しました石井＠ユーザー体験(以下、UX=User Experience)に基づいたデザインに関する研究が、米国では大変活発に行われていますが、日本では東京の一部の方々以外は、あまり耳慣れない言葉ではないでしょうか？簡単に言うと、使いやすさ、わかりやすさを、徹底的に追求しようという思想で、説明書不要・子供でも操作できるiPhoneデザインなどに、表れていますよね。今日は米国の良記事である、生活において必ず定期的に訪れるものは少ないです。例えば死。例えば税金。例えば”あなたの職業は何？”と聞いてくる初めて会った人。私はユーザー体験(UX)デザイナーとして、近年いくつものプロジェクトに関わり、一生懸命答えを出そうとして来ました。そして分かった事は、ユーザーの脳の中に入るのが私の仕事だという事。実際には多数のユーザーの考え方や立場に立って、デザインを見つめる必要があるという事。そして、潜在的な問題や混乱を潰していく必要がある事。この終わらないプロセス中、デザインを構築する前、最中、後、全てにおいてユーザー体験を生かしておかなければなりません。ユーザーを頭の中に入れて仕事をするのはチャレンジです。なぜならユーザーを気にしすぎると、締め切りや、仕事のクオリティレベルの雲行きが怪しくなるからです。あなたの製品(=Webサービス)を正しい方向に導く為に、私のデザインプロセスで使っている5つのセオリーをまとめました。UXに関する決定がどの様に進んで行くのか、他人やチームメンバーの理解を取り付けるにあたって、さらにUXの最終決定まで右要曲折があるのか、という事が理解できると思います。良いデザインは消化しやすいのです。脳は見ているものを理解するのに、多大なエネルギーを使うべきではありません。ユーザーが、数段落に及ぶ説明なんて無くても、何をやれば良いか瞬時に理解できるように設計すべきなのです。この考え方は明快で読みやすいコピーライティングにも応用できます。ユーザーは時に決定を下すための解説が必要で、12行ものリストを読むのは手ごわく感じます。サイズ、色、アイコンなどの序列をつけて、整理する事も、人気のある選択肢を目立たせるのに役立ちます。ユーザーは急いで探している物を速く見つける事ができるのです。あと良い例としては新規ユーザーの為のガイドが挙げられます。都度都度使えるような便利なノウハウ集(Tips)がそれです。逆の場合を考えましょう。新規ユーザーがすごい量の指図を受けたらどう思うでしょうか。誰もが混乱でびっくりする事は好まないのです。新規ユーザーが、脳は1日に認知できる情報に限界があります。必要ないのにその認知力を使わせるのはユーザーに失礼です。良いデザインは正直です。あなたの売り込みポイントを言葉で説明する事なく、真のサービスの価値を理解してもらう必要があるのです。恥ずかしがって無口になったり、Webサービスの説明がはっきりしなかったりすると、ファンを獲得する事は出来ません。Webサービスの価値に関連して、価格の表示は明解さが非常に大切です。ユーザーは、何に対してお金を払うのか分かっていなければ、”買う”ボタンを押す事はありません。こっそり無料プランに登録させて、自動課金プランに後で変えてしまうのは、よくある課金のセオリーですが、ユーザーに喜ばれるとは全く思いません。これは安っぽく聞こえると思いますが、良い計画は黄金の法則に従っているのです。あなたが他人から説明を受けたい方法で、物事をユーザーに説明しましょう。できるだけ物事を明解にしましょう。あなたは自分自身のために製品を選ぶ時、どんな説明をされたいか自分でわかりますよね？説明不足のWebサービスにならない様にしましょう。良いデザインは信頼しやすいです。ユーザーが行動を完了する前に、なぜその行動が必要なのか、可能な努力は全てしてユーザーに理解してもらいましょう。UberやLyftのケースを考えましょう。彼らは車に乗る事を驚くほど簡単にしてくれました。100年間続いていた古いタクシーを見つけるプロセスが今では混沌として見えます。Uberのアプリは他人と共有すると気持ち良いものではない決済の情報を保存した上で、それを信頼のおける楽な手続きに変えてくれます。疑いを減らす事は地味な施策ですが、我々の見えないところでユーザーの体験は確実に良くなっています。ユーザーが決定する時に考える量が少なくなればなる程、Webサービスは簡単でもっと楽しいものになるのです。画期的なデザインは素晴らしいです。でもさらに大きな数値目標を達成するデザインは、地味ですがもっと良いのです。新しいデザインフレームワークや、派手なプラグインはDribbbleの様なデザイナーコミュニティでよく見えるかもしれません。そんな場合でも、誰も”買う”ボタンを押さなかったら、あなたにとって問題なはずです。プラットフォーム設計のガイドラインは理由があって作られています。あなたのWebサービスを他社と全く同じに見える様にしろ、と言っている訳ではないので、各OSの細部のこだわりの部分に敬意を払いましょう。見た目が親しみやすいパターンや、アイコンや、表現力豊かなスタイルを使うことは、不自然さを取り払うのに重要な役割を果たしているのです。あなたの解決策を、実機で試してみる事は時間がかかります。そんな時、アイデアだけでは十分ではなく、ビジネスの世界で勝利するには、実行が必要であると言われています。皮肉なことに、Webサービス側のチームが働けば働くほど、ユーザーは働くなくても良くなります。複雑な問題を単純にすればする程、ユーザーはWebサービスを喜んでくれるのです。デザイナーとして究極の喜びは、ユーザーがWebサービスをWebサービスでないと感じた時でしょう。つまり便利すぎて製品と感じる必要がなくなり、ユーザーが生活で使っている他の便利なもの(例:iPhone)と一緒になったら最高ですよね。そしてそれはとても重要です。なぜなら68%のユーザーは、Webサービス側が自分の事を十分考えてくれていないと感じて離脱してしまうという統計があるからです。もちろん、あなたはユーザーの事を考えていますよね。なのに、68%も離脱するのです。あなた自身について正直であれば、あなたのWebサービスについてのユーザー体験を判断するのは簡単です。疲れた人間の脳の容量という観点から、あなたのWebサービスに関する、ユーザーの各アクションを検討し、他人になったつもりでしばらく考えてみましょう。CEO of 岡山県のエンジニアの拠点、ギーク道場倉敷のブログです。

Every startup I’ve worked with in the last two decades has been uniquely brilliant and uniquely flawed. Yet there’s a pattern to their successes and failures.In my experience there are three big things that UX can contribute to a startup’s success, and they are often completely forgotten.One is a little problem, the other a big problem, and the third is worse than a problem: it’s a missed opportunity.Startups need to develop a clear, strong brand strategy. Playing with brand is fun, but you need to frame the brand goals clearly. You need to understand your market and context, and craft a personality, posture, voice, tone, and aesthetic that connect with your customers. The point of your brand is to differentiate, so if you’re comfortable with your brand, it probably means you’re not innovating with it. Forget your comfort zone, make an impact.It’s a little problem because it’s not too hard to overcome, with the help of a brand strategy expert. If you can’t hire one, then just guerrilla it: Read a half-dozen Beyond the initial effort, you need to keep strengthening and differentiating your brand: You need to keep your finger on the pulse of your industry, and figure out how to dominate it.Take two to four hours every week to read up on articles and blog posts related to your industry, target audience, and competition. Look for signs of change, then take the lead, spearhead the change, and write your own blog post about where things are going. Cross-post it, promote it, and then forget it and get back to work, until next week.Users start out not knowing and not caring about your product. You then have to spend a lot of money and effort to capture their attention, and get them to your site or app download page. Once you’ve brought them there, you’ll get In theatre, the first scene is not the main part of the story… but it’s often the most important nonetheless, because it establishes trust with the audience that the rest of the show is worth watching. A boring first act empties seats.Onboarding is hard, because in just a few minutes, you need to:It’s a big problem because without it you lose most of your users after the first interaction. All the money spent getting their attention is wasted if you don’t keep their attention.Done well, it feels like a fun series of minor successes leading to a big “A-ha!” moment. Follow some basic principles around how to articulate your on-boarding experience, so that you control the story of your product:As you begin to develop your product, don’t make the classic mistake of designing it from the inside out. Don’t design the common, everyday use of the product first, then tack on the first-use scenario as an afterthought. It’s worth instead articulating the entire product strategy to A friend of mine and a great entrepreneur once said:It’s pathetically narrow-minded to focus on business success. Making money is hard… except when it isn’t: Following It’s still going to be hard work. The only thing that will make this challenge easier is if everyone wants to help you succeed. And everyone will want to help you succeed only if you’re trying to do more than just make money. If you pile on a series of hard, ambitious, quasi-impossible goals, then, and only then, will the world work with you and for you.Paradoxically, it’s only Go talk to users, directly, in person. Develop a full set of user personas and goals, so you understand what each type of stakeholder is looking for. But beware: Users lie.Users will lie and lead you astray, out of kindness, embarrassment, hidden agendas, social cues, ignorance, or simply difference in perspective and semantics. Some things that are crucial for you to know are obvious to them, and not worth mentionning. Some things that are irrelevant tangeants to you are obsessions for them. Some things that are taboo, or just unpleasant, are nonetheless central to their motivations and behavior… but they’d be mortified if you asked about them. So asking is not enough. You need to observeDon’t ask them what the solution should be, but ask them to show you what their problems are. Don’t ask them if they’d use your idea: They’ll say yes just to make you feel good. Ask them to show you what they use today. Ask them to show you their office, their workplace, or where they shop… Ask, but more importantly, observe what their actual context is.But then, be aware that by So identify the It makes no sense to recreate a paper-and-pencil process on a touchscreen… yet most software is still built out of forms, inboxes, files, and other outdated metaphors. Technology is supposed to enable new solutions, yet we most often try to shoehorn old solutions into it. Henry Ford famously said that, prior to the automobile, if he’d asked people what they wanted, they’d have replied “faster horses”. Don’t build faster horses when you have the potential to build a car.Look for the Don’t become a middle-man between the user and what they want, but instead remove obstacles. Seek to disrupt rather than intermediate. Don’t do the same, because in every field, in every business, in every culture, You’re going to spend a lot of marketing time, money and energy getting in a lot of people’s faces and facebook feeds. If you’re successful, your product will spend a lot of time interacting with your customers. Work on making those interactions useful, helpful, respectful, and insightful.Seek to “challenge up” your business model: Spend some creative time looking for ways to make your product, and your business model, good for planet and people as well as profits.As a startup, your odds are long but your possibilities are limitless. Play to your strengths by attempting the impossible.Software. Performing Arts. Fiction. I craft experiences that empower and delight.Because magical experiences are counter-intuitive.

When I first set out to become a User Experience Designer, I had no college degree, and very little money — but I had These steps should provide a high-level overview for anyone interested in what it takes to become a UX Designer.The most important task when approaching a new discipline is to understand and articulate its concepts and principles. Imagine that you’re an explorer determined to discover unchartered territory. Instead of putting yourself on the ground with a map drawn by someone else, you might want to take a flight over the area and see the landscape from above before you jump into the jungle and start hacking away with your machete.You want to get a feel for the features and character of the discipline. Orient yourself and set expectations for how much time it is going to take to gain proficiency. Identify with the parts of the discipline that speak to you most. Ask yourself if this is the right path for you, or if there is another road that suits you better.What excites you most? What makes you feel uncomfortable or uncertain? What areas do you think would come most naturally to you? What seems confusing or contrived?If you know a UX Designer ask them which are the most foundational and important UX publications. If you don’t know one, start searching the web and make note of recurring names and publications. You want to pick one or two works that will serve as your initial guide map to the discipline of UX.When I first set out to become a UX Designer, I tried to identify the seminal works and then went out and studied them in depth. By seminal works, I mean materials that shaped the discipline of UX and contain the propositions that later works build upon and argue against.The two works I identified and studied were:Here is the high-level overview of UX Design that I came up with:It is incredibly important to write down (in your own words) the summary of what you’ve learned about the high-level concepts and principles of UX Design. Getting feedback from real people is a pattern you should have identified in what you wrote, so why not put that pattern to work and see what you learn along the way? You don’t have to call yourself a UX Designer before you start practicing some of its principles, do you?So now that you’ve got a good understanding of the lay of the UX land, you’re going to want to identify the key skills that will allow you to do your job as a UX Designer. The skills that interest you most are probably going to be the ones you want to focus on, but identifying and strengthening your weaknesses is important as well. Before I talk about my experience in skill building, I want to share a distinction between hard-skills and soft-skills which I think might be useful.Hard skills are the more technical and tactile skills that live at the heart of a discipline. Soft skills are the supporting yet I found a great list of hard skills that is organized by the different segments within the UX Discipline. You might want to print this out and familiarize yourself with its terms:Here are a list of soft-skills that I think are crucial to being a good UX Designer:There’s a great e-book from UX Mastery called In my exploration of UX I strongly identified with the Interaction Design, Visual Design and Computer Science disciplines of UX. I have a natural inclination to organize information by categories and to group items by relationship to one another, so I felt the gravitation towards Information Architecture, but it was the process of creation that really got me excited.Here are the skill lists I created:(The one weakness which really spoke to me was back-end code. I had met programmers and had been blown away by their ability to solve complex problems with code by breaking the problem down into smaller pieces of logic. Problem solving is at the heart of all disciplines so I highlighted this weakness and sought out to make it a strength.)With my skill lists printed out and posted on the wall in my office, I had a checklist of assets I needed to acquire on my journey of becoming a successful UX Designer.Just like we took a high-level overview of the core concepts and principles of UX in Step 1, we want to understand who the main influencers are in the field of UX and where they stand on the spectrum of the discipline.With a map of UX influencers, we can follow them, read about them, learn what career paths they took and what motivates them as designers. This helps us understand what UX has been and what the influencers say UX will be. It also helps you identify with what is important in UX and what can separate you from the crowd.Once you’ve got a solid understanding of UX principles, the skills you need to learn, and who the major influencers are, it’s time to jump into the UX community to put all that you’ve learned to action. Some events are better than others so I would advise doing some solid research to determine what would be the best use of your time and money. You don’t necessarily have to drop a few thousand dollars and a full week in order to get your foot in the door. Often there are local workshops that can help get you momentum in your UX career.Knowing yourself and your career goals is really the most important part in deciding how to invest your time and money on conferences and the like. I suggest you use your skill lists as a guide for making choices, but also be mindful that these aren’t going to make you a master at anything. Instead, they’ll probably give you entirely new ways of thinking and expose you to ideas that change your trajectory.You’re back from the conference with a massive buzz for UX and you likely have more information than you know what to do with. You’ve probably found some people that really inspire you and some resources that are incredibly valuable. This is the time to immerse yourself with all the awesome UX resources you discovered at the conference. Whether it be magazines, podcasts, video courses, tutorials, or other events — go ahead and immerse yourself in everything UX. You’ll start absorbing information from all angles, and the deeper parts of your consciousness are going to become increasingly familiar with the vernacular and processes behind UX.In your world of UX immersion, you’re going to want to start to think critically about every interface and experience that comes your way. Start asking yourself questions like “Why did the designer decide to use this affordance?” and “Is there sufficient hierarchy in the layout?” and “Is the most important action the most obvious action on the page?” and “I wonder who their key user segments are. If I were to guess it would be…” and any other questions that come to mind.The tools you use to analyze the experiences are not as important as the thought process, but you might want to start learning prototyping tools like Axure RP, Balsamiq or OmniGraffle as part of your analysis. Training yourself to identify and ask the right questions is crucial, but being able to answer questions with solutions is the end goal. You want to be able to think If you don’t know what something is called or how to express an idea, go ahead and look it up, sketch it, prototype it. You’ll often find your questions at the intersection of multiple disciplines. You’ll want to understand business process as well as technology implications. It’s important you’re able to converse with stakeholders as well as developers.The cool part about this step of analyzing everything ‘UX’ is that it never really ends. Once you get started you’ll find your critical designer mind with you all the time — looking at how you could make something better. That philosophy of continuous improvement is what will allow you to add value. Identifying problems and creating solutions is crucial so go ahead and get started on something that really interests you.This analysis for me came began by way of sketching interfaces that inspired me and annotating every element. I wanted to understand the thought process behind the design, but also the code that made the components work. Because my skill list leaned towards prototyping and front-end development, I found myself opening Chrome Dev tools and inspecting page after page for the applications that drew my interest.Here are the interfaces I studied extensively (if you look closely you’ll probably see recognize design patterns I’ve used on my projects):If you are committed to becoming a UX Designer, it only seems appropriate to make an intentional commitment to a community of other local designers who can support you and help you along your journey. Depending on where you live, you might be able to find a great local UX community. Keep a lookout for ways to can give back to your community and you’ll find much in return.Check out I found UX Design communities to be particularly welcoming. People come from all sorts of backgrounds and seem to understand what its like to be a newcomer. I started going to a bunch of different Meetups and found a few that resonated with me more than others and I decided to commit to those. If you’re in Denver I highly recommend This is one of the most crucial steps in becoming a UX Designer. Having a mentor with more experience, knowledge and skill will help you understand yourself better and will empower you to navigate your career more successfully than you could alone. I searched long and hard and tried a few different mentor relationships before I found one that was a good fit.It’s likely that you’ll find plenty of experts in your local community, but the hard part is establishing a mutually beneficial mentorship. Mentorship is a two-way street and you need to demonstrate not only your commitment to learn and grow as a UX Designer but also your commitment to them as a mentor.People have different needs and expectations, and finding out what a potential mentor is looking for is key. Don’t be afraid to ask direct questions like “Would you be interested in being my UX mentor? What would you be looking to gain as a mentor? What kind of time commitment would be reasonable for you? Are there any skills that I can offer you in return?”Don’t feel obligated to do anything more formal or less formal than you’re comfortable with. Figure out what works best for you and ask for it.After searching around and trying different mentorships, I settled on a UX Designer that I identified as an industry influencer — Whitney Hess. I resonated strongly with Whitney’s passion to guide designers through their careers and to improve the human experience.At first, I was reluctant to pay for a mentorship but after great consideration I finally made the commitment to hire her as my mentor. I will never look back.In our first one-hour conversation I gained more insight about myself and my career than I had in months of introspection. I learned that my wide range of skills and non-traditional experience was a huge value. I learned that I didn’t have to commodify myself as another designer but that I could lean on my strengths of understanding client needs and distilling complex problems into simple solutions.My experience is something to be said for Whitney’s skill as a UX career coach, but I think this applies to speaking with anyone who has more experience in your field and is committed to helping you along your journey. So even if you’re not able to pay for a mentor, do recognize the immense value that they have to offer and be intentional about finding a mentor.I read a lot of articles about finding a UX mentor along my journey and so I thought I would share some of them with you in case you’re interested:Working on a real project is by far the most important step in becoming a UX Designer. It’s where all the conceptual knowledge and relationship building gets applied. It doesn’t matter if you understand all the concepts and know all the great designers, if you can’t do your job well you’re not going to go very far.Look for projects that will be a good fit for you instead of jumping on the very first thing that comes your way. You want to choose clients that share your values and beliefs and respect you as a person. Choosing a project that challenges you and has a high likelihood of being successful is key. You want your first project to be a seed for many more to come.My first paid project as a UX Designer was with a Denver-based music startup called I started off with an intense desire to I invested hundreds of hours into making this project successful and while the end result wasn’t the best user experience ever designed, it was a huge milestone in my journey and it gave me the momentum and confidence to continue forward on my journey as a UX Designer.I would encourage you to Now that you’ve got a project finished and fully documented it’s time to add it to your portfolio and share it with the UX community. Ask for feedback. Tell people you want to improve and want any advice you can get. It’s a bit intimidating at first, but learning how to ask for and receive feedback is crucial.You’ll learn things that you could never have learned before. Someone might point out a great opportunity that you missed or a big rookie mistake that you made — either way, you’re better off knowing than not.I think you’ll find that once you’ve gone through your first project, the next project will come more naturally. No matter how your first projects goes just keep trying, keep improving and keep learning. Being a UX Designer means you can choose which hats you want to wear and what areas you are passionate about, so don’t feel pushed or compelled to do anything that doesn’t fit with you and your goals.The hard work I invested in my early projects has paid off. Not only was I referred to other great clients but the UX community began to notice what I was up to. I was featured in By no means have I mastered UX design, but I have a passion for telling stories and for making the world a better place through what I love. UX just happened to be a tool that I fell in love with along the way.There are so many paths you can take to becoming a UX Designer and I hope you have a blast on yours. Feel free to reach out at any time if you have any questions or want to talk about UX. I’m always interested in learning new things and meeting new people.I’m a freelance UX Designer who loves to bring great stories into the light. 

is my new number one favorite question to try to answer these days, since my realization that being happy with your work is more important than how much money you make while doing it. I am currently working four part time jobs in order to fund an online course in UX Design with DesignLab. However, it never fails that no matter what long list of bizarre activities my work life consists of right now, that question is always followed up with my new second favorite question to try to answer: In my opinion, two questions have to be answered in order to really explain what I am striving to learn in my course with DesignLab: I prefer Jacob Gube’s answer in his blog “While that may seem simple, what happens when you think about what type of What type of What about the What does the word With a complicated, but clear, solid outline of what a user experience is, we are able to move on and answer the second portion of the question.This is what everyone is really asking me when they ask what UX is, what am I hoping to learn through this course, To utilize the first UX definition we discussed, it is When looked at from a distance, Jacob Gube’s article On the other hand, to take a more thorough, detailed look at what all UX design is about, Ali Russian Tariq in his piece “While it can appear Within the large circle that is When you begin to think about having a list like this for every portion of each of the small items depicted in the visual above, User Experience Design begins to become much How the designer does How each detail has to be designed in order to proply comply with or convey the company’s and product’s How each detail has to be designed in order to (or at least like it would take 2 years for every small project), but I find that the list used by Erik Flowers in “Ultimately, through the first unit in my course with DesignLab on A student in DesignLab’s very first UX Academy — trying to break in from the world of Chemical Engineering! Sports Junkie. Fun Lover. Beer Advocate.

Today I went to a lunch with a group of UX professionals (From what I could understand in a general sense Danny wants guidance in how to instill lasting change in his organization from a conference. He also wanted in depth training on specialized skills of his team. He wanted to work with (not just listen to) a professional that has taken a theory (popular in the industry or not) and show him how it improved their process and walk him through that in a workshop like format. He wanted workshops that honed improving the specialists skill. I’m not exactly certain that’s what he wanted but that’s how I interpreted it as I listened to him.I shared with him what I’ve found within the I think it’s great to have these kinds of conversations with others in our industry. In person or online. It was a great conversation.Overall I feel like the Product Design discipline is seeking education. Seasoned to entry level, they all want to learn how to be better at what they do. That’s a great professional group to be a part of.There are so many people willing to share their stories and knowledge. Go find them and make learning an endless adventure.Husband  Father of 4. Mobile Product Designer 

A beautiful and touching movie about what makes us Basic techniques for dealing with conflict and the 4 virtues of collaboration.The ultimate goal for user experience is that users enjoy using your product or service. Many companies use satisfaction as a metric for measuring their success. But satisfaction is really just the lack of frustration. You should be focused on what you can do to delight your users.Applying User Centred Design and the Lean Start Up ethos to Digital ProjectsThe challenges faced in keeping up with rapidly evolving customer expectationsHow analysing user contacts and feedback contributes towards a more robust product roadmapA thoughtful and elegant meditation on work, family, and the art of perfection, chronicling Jiro’s life as both an unparalleled success in the culinary world and as a loving yet complicated father.“Native select boxes are rubbish and I have the user research videos to prove it. In this talk I’ll show videos from a recent user research session around the design of a form on GOV.UK. I’ll talk about the many failings of select boxes to meet the needs of less technically capable users.I’ll finish with some suggestions on alternatives to select boxes, including the solution GOV.UK came up with.”Workshops are becoming the heart of design, innovation and strategy projects. You need to bring people together — your clients, your colleagues, users — to gather information, generate ideas and identify the best solutions. We generally have a finite time to glean information from clients, this tips will help ensure you’re able to make the most of it.Systems-focused leadership and team development for the creative disciplines.How to help Design, UX, RD and Product leaders like you develop thriving teams so they can do what they do best: design inspired products and services.Sundance awarded documentary that follows the journeys of indie game developers as they create games and release those works, and themselves, to the world.Over the past 30 years, Marty Cagan has defined and built products for some of the most successful companies in the world, including Hewlett-Packard, Netscape Communications, America Online, and eBay. He’s the founder of Silicon Valley Product Group and, at our conference Mind the Product 2012, he shared his top 10 secrets to creating products customers love.Look back at the weird and wonderful world of Polish Animation — from the years of Socialism in the 1960s through to the 1980s featured by Ashka Komorowska-Jalal.Designers are trained to guide users toward predetermined outcomes, but is there a better use of this persuasive psychology? What happens if we focus less on influencing desired behaviors and focus more on designing ‘sandboxes’: open-ended, generative systems? And how might we go about designing these spaces? It’s still “psychology applied to design”, but in a much more challenging and rewarding way!Mental models are diagrams that represent the underlying philosophies and emotions that drive people’s behavior, matched up with the ways you support them with your product. Rather than knowing “I like to go to movies alone,” you’ll dig down to the myriad reasons why. (E.g. “I like to give the director the attention and respect he deserves, because when I wrote a play in college, people didn’t pay attention very well, they didn’t get the point, and I felt frustrated.”) Knowing the motivating philosophy opens up different avenues for supporting the behavior. You could, for example, offer additional means for this type of moviegoer to “get the point” of the movie. Mental models are useful as structures for attaching these ideas to sets of philosophies and for generating new ideas in places where there are gaps.Swiss born data driven UX Designer 

Начал курс на pluralsight.com под названием “Хакинг UX / UX для разработчиков”. Тем самым продолжаю трансформацию себя из чистокровного разработчика в polymath (человек который имеет знания и навыки из разных сфер). В последующих постах я буду выкладывать краткое содержание того, что изучил.UX большая сфера для изучения и включает в себя на порядок больше вещей, чем UI.Взглянем на иерархию.UI — это то, что мы видим: кнопки, формы, заголовки и другие элементы.Дизайн и технологии — это то, что видит разработчик и дизайнер:Ну и третье — наука и исследование.Забавно, но уже существует около десятка профессий связанных с UX.Пару из них я поискал в LinkedIn.Также есть важная область, граничащая с UX — CX.Но что, бы не вдаваться во все тонкости, мы сосредоточимся на опыте взаимодействия с Что-бы интереснее было читать дальше, определимся с главным вопросом — Смотрим на определение — вызвать определенные чувства пользователя от взаимодействия с приложением (в нашем случае).Что в итоге приведет к:a) органической рекламеb) лояльности пользователейc) меньшему числу обращений в службу поддержкиd) большему числу продажЭто то что, нам предстоит сделать что бы добиться результата.Ок, мы разобрались на базовом уровнем, что такое UX.Существует три вида трения: когнитивное, эмоциональное и физическое.В ходе курса мы будем в основном рассматривать когнитивное “трение”.Рассмотрим абстрактный пример, что бы лучше разобраться в когнитивном трении.У компании “A” есть система управления. Она старая, медленная, много жалоб, трудно использовать и вообще сложна.Тогда разработчики, решили ее улучшить сделать удобней и новей.Но после обновления количество жалоб увеличилось, несмотря на “свежий” интерфейс и удобную навигацию.Причины:

Kullanıcı deneyimi, sadece arabirim tasarımlarından önce değil, aynı zamanda yeni bir özellik eklerken de olması gereken bir süreçtir. Bu süreç içerisinde uyabileceğiniz ve kullanıcıyla olan iletişiminizi kolaylaştıracak kısa bir liste hazırladım. Hazırsanız başlıyoruz!Bunun yerine, kısa aralıklarla, kullanıcı alışkanlıklarını etkilemeyecek ve hayatını kolaylaştıracak yeni özelliklerle tutarlı bir yol izleyebilirsiniz.Ayrıca siteniz, kullanıcının etkileşimine göre cevap verebilir ve aşağıdaki görselde olduğu gibi kullanıcıyla diyalog kurabilir.UX Designer at SHERPABir tasarım stüdyosunun notları

Данная статья предназначена для разработчиков, как и весь курс в целом.У нас, есть свое видение вещей, мы решаем задачи, проблемы, а это дается благодаря определенному складу ума, который большинство людей не имеют.Эта та сложность с которой нам нужно справиться — Грубо говоря это та же разработка, лишь с маленькими отклонениями.Основная работа — это Первое что должен сделать разработчик — ставить пользователя в центре, принимая любое решение.Итак, что бы ставить пользователя в центре решений, есть простое упражнение. Задайте себе вопрос.Рассмотрим 7 самых распространенных ошибок.Нет ничего проще, чем сделать запрос и выдать это на экран.Отправить запрос, принять запрос, сохранить и пр.Допустим когда вы один и тот же элемент на разных страницах называете по разному или они имеют разные цвета или размеры.7. Попытка создать решение для каждой возможной ситуации впринципе — создавать решение проблем которых не существуют.Для начала определимся с этим странным термином.Здесь я нашел подробное объяснение и их типологию. Рассмотрим несколько распространенных из них.Склонность Думать с точки зрения собственной профессии, забывая о более широком взгляде.Склонность отрицать новые тенденции, которые противоречат существующей парадигме. Актуально для “матерых” разработчиков.Сообщество разработчиков велико и дружелюбно. Можно просто взять и использовать готовые решения. Но часто мы даже не задумываемся над ними, почему именно так. Особенно актуально для начинающих разработчиков.Поиск информации только с одной точки зрения. То есть вы ищите то, что соответствует вашим убеждениям.Склонность сохранять вещи такими, какие они есть.Это когда тебя пытаются заставить сделать что-то, без имеющейся у тебя на это нужды.Ende

The first time I ever heard about UX design was back in 2013 after I graduated from college. A few google searches later I realized that it was something I could see myself doing for a really long time without wanting to kill myself.I wanted to jump on the bandwagon that was I started to improve my coding skills and learned more about typography and color; I also picked up some jQuery. I was part of the team that was working on an ERP project for colleges and I was responsible for designing mockups and coding them, which was pretty fun at the start. But coding forms with little to no interactivity/creativity and also not being able to put any of my ideas into it made it worse. The company kept calling me a I wanted to do more than just design mockups and code. I wanted to innovate but I was lacking in the skills that were required to realize my dreams.I wanted guidance and I wanted to know more about the endless possibilities of UX Design and how I could someday become one. Sure, I could’ve read some books, watched some videos to learn more about it but I wanted an environment where I could collaborate with other designers/developers and use the tools that I’ve actually learned. In my home country Nepal, companies posts vacancies for So, I’m here now, thousands of miles away from my home, my family and friends in a land filled with opportunity, where the onions are as big as a bowling ball and ordering a sandwich becomes a task. I’m hoping that I can make the most of my time here and learn more about UX and someday be great at it.Art/Design Enthusiast  Sarcasm ExtraordinaireMaster’s students at Philadelphia University writing about UX and becoming a UX professional.

As a new student of UX design, my understanding of it is very basic. From what I have learned and understood so far, I would describe it essentially, with the simplest description, as creating something that a user can use with ease without having to think too much. In other words, a product or design that allows them to find what they are looking for without them pulling their hair out and cursing the designer at the end of it. As a UX designer, our job then, should be to understand our users, feel what they are feeling, and create a design that bests suites their needs.In Steve Krug’s book, “Don’t Make me Think,” he explains exactly this. Being a usability expert requires an understanding of how the user thinks. Having links that a user can clearer identify as being links, using information hierarchy to make page navigation easy, and creating clear, simple navigational steps, are a few examples of how a UX designer might create a pleasant experience for their user. The overall aesthetic of the design is important as well. Using the right typography, paying attention to colors, etc. creates a visually pleasing design that will provide a positive experience for the user.With all this taken into consideration and executed it is then important to see if it works. Sometimes, what the designer might think is easy to locate, or easy to understand, might not be true for everyone. Therefore, UX designers perform usability tests that will help them identify areas of their design that are clear to the user as well as areas that cause confusion or difficulty.There is a lot more for me to learn in the field of UX design but what I have understood so far is that, in essence, user experience design is about the user. And as a UX designer, the goal is providing them with the most comfortable, satisfactory experience.Master’s students at Philadelphia University writing about UX and becoming a UX professional.

Six years ago, I was working as a system analyst at PTT Exploration and Production company (the oil and gas industry company in Thailand). My goal was to make the engineer’s life easier by designing web applications and workflows for them. After my first web application design had launched, no one was happy to use it, and/or they have to use it because of the CEO’s order. Apparently, those engineers didn’t know where to click and finished their task. Oh my goodness! Why?? My team has already demonstrated how to use it to them. Is it too hard to follow? Is it too complicated? Those questions had crossed my mind over six months after Go-live. Later, my boss said to me “After that, I started to learn from my mistake. I tried to identify what’s wrong with my design. I googled my problems, and that was the first time when I saw the word “However, I still got a problem; it took too much time for one project to implement than it should be. I guess I need to learn a lot more about UX and a human mind. I shall begin now because life is too short for bad UX right?Master’s students at Philadelphia University writing about UX and becoming a UX professional.

The basics of UX design is a big umbrella term that states how something is designed for the best experience for the user while using a product. It looks at how the human interacts with the computer and the outcome of that interaction.Imagine yourself going on a random website — What is your first impression? A website with a great UX design provides a pleasurable experience in the interaction between user and the website, enhances customer satisfaction and attains the user’s loyalty and recommendations.User experience is not just about visual design but a combination of skillsets including interaction design, information architecture and user research. It has a lot to do with research about how to provide a meaningful and valuable user experience. There are many forms of User-Experience research methods such as first click testing, usability testing, conducting focus group interviews as well as eye-tracking.In this day and age of metrics and measurements, many find it hard to propose the benefits of UX investment to their companies due to its ‘intangibility’. On the big picture scale, a good UX design can lead toMost importantly, measuring the ROI of UX design is definitely possible(not fluffy at all!). Just like the days where people used to think measuring the returns on marketing effort and branding is impossible, UX as a relatively new-comer in the digital world is going through this same phase.A group of UX researchers at Google came up with a simple framework to qualify user experience call the HEART framework which can be applied to a whole product or specific feature:The first task is to figure out how to measure success for your specific project by Business Goals.ROI is about measuring the economic outcome of UX activities. From a general perspective, success can be defined from an improvement in the metrics listed above. However, you can go deeper by quantifying the cost savings of investing in UX design. In simplistic terms:Let’s take for example you are aiming for increased productivity for your call-centre agents. By optimising the process of the task on a page can save 2.5 minutes off a 5-minute task that is performed 5 times a day.Metrics let you measure the value of your investment in UX design not just in qualitative terms- the abstract value of having happy users — but in terms of the cost savings in improved productivity or increased sales. So there you go, we hope we’ve completed our task of demystifying the intangibility of User Experience!Serial Bread  Cheese Eater. Founder  CEO at 

WDesigners will use the power of human-centered design to effectuate social change. Designers must recognize the challenges around implementation and deliver an actionable solution with clear implementation plans.According to Human-centered design consists of three phases:For this project, I had the luxury of working with We were teamed up to tackle the topic of “Factory Farming” — something each of us were very passionate about.Government subsidies, lack of EPA regulations, and agricultural monopolies entrench the current farming system. What can individuals and communities do to encourage the development of environmentally and morally sustainable farming practices, minimize food safety risks, reduce the amount of antibiotic abuse, improve animal welfare, and empower small farmers?Two weeks.As with any group project, a team manifesto was established to ensure we would be working through the project as efficiently as possible. We also divided up various portions of the project where our team members would take ownership of. This allowed us to work leaner and faster.We also adapted philosophies of My role in this project would be similar to past ones, I would take lead on the ideation and creation of the final deliverables as well as the journeys/user flows. Again, the work would be dispersed amongst the team, but I would be responsible for maintaining consistency and ensuring the final product delivered professionally.Pen/pencil+paper, whiteboards, Google Forms, Sketch, inVision, OmniGraffle, Keynote, QuickTime, iMovie.At the start of the project, we quickly ran into our first roadblock determining where to start with a subject as broad as To understand the scope and the landscape of the various challenges uncovered through discovery, we broke off and did some initial research. We reconvened as a team and decided to touch on the areas that mattered to us the most. Focusing on the We broke down the traditional model we have in existence — how your typical produce travels from where it is grown to your local grocery aisle — and depicted it visually. This obviously does not cover every single step in the process but from what’s highlighted, we can get a relatively clear understanding of the key points.Before we dove in deeper, we wanted to take a closer look at user behaviors and habits. This would provide us with a human element in the equation, allowing us to emphasize and form a deeper connection. Not only would we be solving a social issue, we would understand “why” and most importantly, “who” we’re solving it for.Utilizing Google Forms, we sent out a survey to compile data by asking questions geared towards our audiences’ views on non-conventional grocery stores (such as farmers markets). We also wanted them to include their views on the importance of freshness and other potential motives shopping at these places.With the data points collected from the survey, we were able to build some personas to humanize our project.Exploring alternatives to traditional industrialized farming, we learned about the grassroots movement of We felt we needed to get a first hand look at urban farms — the benefits and the potential solutions they provided. Fortunately for us, we were able to locate two urban farms (Lazybones was a small boutique store with an outdoor garden built by After visiting Lazybones, we stopped at the Cook’s Garden to see a larger-scale urban garden. John from Cook’s Garden informed us the significance of being educated regarding various agricultural issuesFrom both sites, we were able to see the passion revolving around both urban farming and the food that is grown. The growers found it substantially rewarding while providing a service to the neighborhood. It was enlightening for us to see how connected they were to their produce and the local community.This portion was probably the most important part of our project as it laid out the groundwork for our idea. After our field trip, some of our biggest questions were (if we did go the route of urban farms), “Is there enough space? Are we planting them in dirt plots? How much can we realistically produce?”Researching advances in planting technology, we came across something called But is it scalable? According to research we’ve done and speaking with resellers of the tower, what you can grow in 43,560 square feet (or one acre of land), you can grow in only 4,000 square feet with the tower gardens. One tower can grow anywhere from Inspired by the urban farms we’ve visited on-site as well as researching existing plant growing technology (hydroponics/hydroponic towers/aeroponics), we knew we had the potential to create an unique experience. What if we could grow everything in-house and what if we could allow our shoppers to handpick their own produce if they choose to? This sparked our imagination to think outside the box.Understanding the methodology and technology behind urban (indoor) agriculture and what’s possible, we wanted to create an experience like no other. In our proposed flow, all of the produce would be grown in-house (through a mix of aeroponic/hydroponic towers and conventional dirt plots) — with low energy usage (solar panels, LED lighting, etc), and low water waste (any unused water is reclaimed and put back into the system). There would be no need for transport as the items will be sold where it is grown.The shopping experience compared to the traditional method is greatly enhanced. Our shopper would be bombarded with the sight and smells once they enter. They would be immersed and brought closer to the produce they eat as they can see the crops in various stages of growth. They would interact with their food differently as well. Rather the the typical sterile supermarket experience, they can now be a part of the process, plucking their fruits and vegetables straight from the source.To help us get a better understanding how our market’s shopping process worked, we storyboarded how we imagined a shopper would go in to purchase produce.We also incorporated our personas’ needs into our user flow and what our market would include/provide. We took into consideration of Alice’s need of fresh fruit (we planned to have a Since there was no way for us to build this in the timeframe we were given (not to mention zoning regulations, funding, and construction), we still wanted to show our audience what we had in mind. We took to the internet and pulled pictures (both real and conceptual) of the designs that inspired us.For the structure itself, we imagined it to be on rooftops in the city. We would be utilizing space more efficiently than if we were to take up ground space. One existing rooftop farm we drew great inspiration from was Having a greenhouse-type structure existing in an urban environment also lends to greenspaces, breaking up the monotony of a concrete jungle and providing a more natural environment for its denizens.For the interior itself, we would utilize the plant tower technology — saving space and offering a more environmentally conscious way of growing.By putting shoppers closer to nature and closer to where their food comes from, we are hoping it will instill a much stronger sense of community and respect for what they put into their bodies — not to mention a unique shopping experience.With the lack of a physical construct, we decided to offer a few screens to show our audience what the website of our conceptual market would look like. We had originally planned on having a few screenshots but being ahead of schedule allowed us to create a workable prototype.Our unique shopping experience and market needed a name. We all wholeheartedly agreed on the name “We also had a mission statement of:We started with rough lo-fi sketches on the whiteboard to capture what the site would include.Our next step was to translate our initial sketches into digital renderings. We made lo-fi wires using Sketch.Once we wrapped up our lo-fi wireframes, we were able to start creating our hi-fi mockups in Sketch. Our design aesthetic was intended to feel clean, modern, and approachable with a clear representation of our mission statement sitewide. We thoughtfully developed the look and feel of our website with a style guide that included a custom designed logo, color schemes, typography guidelines, image and icon assets, etc. This helped us all pitch into designing the final prototype. Once our mockups were completed, we pulled them into InVision to make a clickable prototype.Feel free to access our prototype here: To further display our clickable prototype, we created a video highlighting the user flow and explaining a little bit about our ideation process.Harvest not only tackles the environmental issues but also changes the shopping experience by creating a deeper emotional tie with our food.For design solving, we:For the consumer, we enhanced their experience by:We also created an infographic depicting visually on what our conceptual market would solve. It was a bit staggering how many aspects it touched on.This project posed many questions towards the end and had us considering the possible next steps.This project really got us to think outside of the screen. An UX designer should not limit themselves buried within the world of apps or websites, but rather take advantage of their innate curiosity and creativity to take on any issue. Because at the end of the day, its the people that matters. It is the human interactions and experiences the UX designer should care most about. Its creating that connection, empathizing with users, using research to drive the next steps, and validating that makes UX design applicable everywhere.I thoroughly enjoyed working with my team members. Every single one was equally dedicated and passionate about the topic we worked on which lent to such a smooth course. We also had great trust and respect for each other’s creative process that played a significant part in the ideation and iteration process.Adapting some aspects of scrum made our journey to the end streamlined and efficient. We would each break off to handle our particular responsibilities only to come back, reflect, brainstorm, and move on to the next steps. I would not think twice if given the chance to work with them again for a future project.We would like to give a big shout out and thanks to Thanks for reading.I like to make nice things and make things nice.

In the process of growth, parent always tell us what is the right thing and what is the wrong thing. So when I was a child I would like to observe people around. After quite a while, I found that there is no absolute right or wrong. If we need to fully understand something, we need to learn and analysis.Ever since I was a kid I dream to become a designer. Thus, I chose Industrial Design as a undergraduate student. I want to make a good product that can solve problems in my life. Although this is just a dream, I keep this in mind all alone the way. In my first job I found out that a good product can not only satisfy my needs, but also fulfill the demand of people.This is my favorite book(“ Designing the Moment”) when I was working in company. Every time I read it, I can get a different experience. It tells us how to make a good interface that the users most likely want to see.When I was working, I found many contradictions in project because this is a real product that will sell to consumer. How can we work out these contradictions? In this moment，I want to find answers in the book. It looks like I can find experimental data and theoretical foundation. In the other way, I also used the method that talk with users to resolve these contradiction. In the interview, I found the different things are how to let the users talk about their intuitive feeling and how to effectively analysis your data and how to use your conclusion to help you design.Therefor, after two years of work, I came to American to study Interactive Design. On the one hand, I want to know more things in different environment, such as different design idea, different design method and different technique.Last semester I reread the other book that I really like. It named “Dont make me think”. Before the professor recommended us to read this book, I have read it (but it is the second edition in Chinese). When I read this in Chinese, I was so confuse because the translation. So it also looks like an user experience. How to let the uses understand you? How to don’t make users think?According to this book , it tells us usability as a common courtesy between the website and the users. If you don’t pay attention in you usability of you website, you will lose your users. How to increase goodwill is an important thing for every designer. Try to consider problems from the user’s perspective. Think about how to make the user to find a satisfying answers when you are designing or developing your website.This is my wordpress link that I wrote some read notes for this book: I like to communicate with people because I deem I can get new information from different person. I think I can find the peace in the book because I will feel nervous when I have problem. I want to be a good UX designer because I want to make the excellent product.Therefore, these thoughts let me step by step know that I really want to learn how to be a good UX designer. I think this is a good beginning!

UX is not about visual design, UX is defined as the process of enhancing customer satisfaction and loyalty by improving the usability, ease of use, and pleasure provided in the interaction between the customer and the product. In order to create this high-quality experience between a company and user, user experience designers focus on the processes of research, usability testing, and other aspects of understanding the customer. For example, many UX researchers use In my opinion UX is not about “Who cares” but it’s about “We cares” so this UX things can’t be handle by one people but we need some people with different dicipline. For the example if i have to create UX team i would like to pick some of Statictics guys, some of Designer, and of course some engineer. The reason why i pick them is simple we can’t relay our next feature of our product to one people even if he/she mastered at that next feature.According to this picture UX design have a realy big scope and i always doubt if there’s a people that master all that things. In startup we always belive team works will be better.I belive your next feature of your product or your next project need to be validate. I still seen in some company some of decision must be approved by the “Boss” but i belive the boss not always true because he/she only human and we know that he would be like to hear from stakeholders not us (most of them). We know that even professor in some lab not works alone. He/she must had some assistant to do a research. The boss might miss some element of feature because he/she is not even learn about that.Release the next version of our product should be meaningfull if not we should be aware why it’s not works. The process of validate feature or next project in UX team is like designing an house. We need some valid data that can be used for our foundation, and some design visual and strong logic code for block of the home. If we can create a well designed house of course we can live better covered from sunshine and rain.So if you need to validate and maintenance next feature or project, please build a solid team for UX process it would be nice if you can doing some research that not breake your sprint process. Research should be create next strong feature or project but if don’t at least your team got some point how to make greater way to execute feature or project.Mastering iOS Development, Dig about Android development, Looking for next Node JS Framework, UX/UI Researcher

UX designer is not idealist, however from my own perspective, that’s a honorable and unbeatable occupation as our world will grow into a better place where there are clean energy, intelligent system and peach of mind. As a newbie into the world of design, I feel much confident and encouraged after reading this article! Thanks for sharing, and I’d like to share my favorite design tool MockPlus (

Although now almost 10 years old, From the founders and creative genius’ behind It’s the tiny little details which are the holy grail of any self-respecting UX designer. Great interactions, put simply, make great products. This book The very first book I read when I took the leap from product design to UX, I could have included any of Luke’s books in this list. The way Luke Wroblewski can write about usability is mesmerising, how he can take a such a specific subject (Such as UX Connections is dedicated to knowledge-sharing for digital creatives, technologists and designers worldwide.

“BECOME A UX DESIGNER IN 10 WEEKS” blares the heading as I scroll down General Assembly’s page for its immersive user experience design course.In the coming days I will consume whatever information I find about General Assembly, bootcamps and user experience design. My subconscious mind has begun a month long cost benefit analysis.Over the past few years technology bootcamps have sprung up in major cities across the United States. Publications like After reading a few articles I began to consider taking a course. My career has largely existed in political communications, but it was my digital design skill set that kept me employed.While I had earned the respect of peers I always felt like an imposter to the tech community. Everything I know is the result of self instruction or trial and error. My expertise is broad, but shallow compared to real practitioners.This knowledge gap has always bothered me, so the prospect of an immersive course into a practical field intrigued me. Still, I had my doubts. How could a ten week course trump the two bachelors and a masters degrees I had earned at University?Lets talk about the elephant in the room: $$$. For most, the biggest obstacle to starting a tech bootcamp is the actual monetary cost. The UXDi course I am taking is $500 shy of ten grand. Unless you are fabulously wealthy, $10,000 is a big investment.I had taught myself to use a much of Adobe’s Creative Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign and Premier Pro) along with HTML and CSS. Through my llc, MsgCmnd, I design and build wordpress based websites. Self-instruction has been critical to my career. So why would I drop so much cash on a course I could conceivably learn on my own?Beyond the obvious advantage of professional instruction these three benefits make the juice worth the squeeze. Let me explain.Sincerity and dedication are important to employers and clients. If a company decided to invest $50,000 into a junior level hire they want to know that person is serious about their work and future.The design and technology sector is especially sensitive to employment outcomes. Unlike manufacturing or retail there is no such thing as inventory. While some companies may hold some IP, their success is dependent on their ability to innovate and gain market share.By formalizing my UX/UI experience through a reputable organization like General Assembly my value to an HR manager or client is increased.My wife and I are moving to Atlanta right as my UXDi course begins. After spending a year commuting from Jacksonville to Macon, I can’t begin to say how excited I am to be based in one place.Most of my adult life has been spent moving from place to place. Political campaigns demand that staff move with the candidate and that is what I did. This experience taught me an important lesson.Just like the first week of freshman year it, is important to knock on doors and make new friends. The longer you go before reaching out to a group the more comfortable you will become in your solitude and the less likely you are to meet new people.This is the one area that General Assembly may not publically endorse, but I am going to write it anyway.I am buying in (literally) to the General Assembly community. Some may not like this comparison, but I see taking an immersive course like joining a fraternity. It is pricy and hard up front, but you must prove you are serious. When pledgeship (classes) are finished you are one of the brothers.General Assembly is an open place. They are never going to turn someone away. They publically encourage paying and non-paying people to use their space and take part in seminars and happy hours.That being said I feel much better knowing that I helped keep the lights on. Just like my fraternity days there is a sense of camaraderie that develops when you contribute to the greater good. If I need a place to work outside of my home Ponce City Marketoffice it is going to be GA. If I have tech friends that want to meet other people in the industry I am taking them to GA.General Assembly was the first bootcamp/career accelerator I ever learned about and it is the one my industry friends respect most. From what I have read it was one of the first in the industry and has a strong record of success.What struck me most were alumni reviews of the organization. Graduate reviews were sober and warned potential applicants to prepare for a rigorous curriculum. Those who completed the courses explained you will get out of it what you put in.I’m not looking for another degree, what I want is practical focused training. From what I can tell, that is what GA delivers.For me, the benefits I listed in conjunction with my interests made this investment seem like a good one.There will be those of you who are in the process of considering a tech bootcamp. I urge you to conduct your own cost benefit analysis. My background, experience and situation are likely different from your own. Think deeply about your existing skill set, interests and vision for the future.Founder of 

For their first collaboration, ultranoir — the french web agency — and McBess invite you to discover ‘Over the Hills’, a digital experience based on music, design, 3D and creative programming.Explore your memories one floor at a time. Watch some of your best moments add up to the building of your life.#FLATDESIGN vs #REALISM. The epic battle in the digital world of 2013!Explore the world of The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug with A Journey Through Middle-earth, a Chrome Experiment.numéro 10 — SyncBig! with storytelling, transmedia  consumers profiles, for more…Red Bull Soundclash is een explosieve strijd tussen twee bands uit verschillende genres die elkaar inspireren en creatief uitdagen. In 4 rondes halen ze het beste in elkaar naar boven en …There are infinite ways to explain how Coca-Cola makes you feel, and one way to describe them: AHH.The all-new Androidify app, available free from the Google Play Store, lets you take the little green Android mascot and turn it into yourself, your family, your friends… anyone! Then, share them as animated emoticons…An interactive film clip for Something / Nothing by Alpha Beta Fox. Works best in Chrome, Firefox and iOS 8 Safari.Dropbox is the home for your most important stuff — now we’re bringing it to life with a growing family of products. As we scale our global brand, there’s plenty of space for you to grow alongside us and simplify life for millions of people around the world.What could your creative future look like?Made out of love and admiration for all the musicians and visual artists who’s art we grew up listening to and staring at.Master pinstriper Glen Weisgerber demonstrates the roundhand lettering technique. Weisgerber teaches pinstriping and lettering at the Airbrush Getaway Workshops. A double-sided film featuring the Honda Civic and Type R concept. There’s more to it than meets the eye. What will you discover?stop-motion animation by PES.From the album ‘Solar Echoes’.Start your next UX project with this checklist and don’t forget about anything!Find the Prototyping Tool You Need. Compare tools and find the one that fits all of your design needs.Your one-stop flat icon warehouse. You’ll find thousands of icons, all of them free. Drag, Click, Edit, Play-around with the icon.Designing iOS apps can be difficult sometimes, but finding correct and up-to-date information about all of Apples’ devices shouldn’t be.Photoshop is the most important and powerful program for designers and photographers that gives unlimited opportunities…| Polarr — Online Photo Editing Re-imagined. Now support RAW photo editing.| Makeappicon resizes and optimizes your icon designs into all formats needed for iOS and Android mobile app!| Find free high quality photos you can use everywhere. ✓ Free for commercial use ✓ No attribution requiredPSD CSS Extraction, Measurements and Image Optimization Service for the Web| How do we make the most of new opportunities when they arrive? We asked the strategists, technologists, user experience designers, creatives, writers and analysts at Huge what brands…| Facebook is a great inspiration for designers like me. Millions of people use it constantly and even the least technological ones…| Here at InVision, | Plus: How Apple, Facebook, Google, and more tech-world…| I’ve learned and applied three techniques I’ve seen in restaurant menus, through my price…|A non-artsy primer in digital aesthetics| A guide to visual aesthetics, written by a nerd| I just did a rough estimate and turns out I lost $100,000. If only I hadn’t designed for free for so many years, who knows, maybe I…Story by Doug MenuezAll the design inspiration you need. It’s like crack for designers. And good for you too!

Josh Seiden wrote about three suggested books on UX leadership, and asked for other suggestions. It might be a little further afield than you have in mind, Josh, but I’d suggest Designer  builder of software products at 

Quisiéramos comprender siempre el porqué de las cosas y, muchas veces, ignoramos qué hubo detrás de la creación de un producto o mejor dicho quiénes estuvieron detrás.A muchos nos han dicho que les presentemos un proyecto sencillo, con poca o casi nada de información y listo. ¿Pero qué hay detrás de éste?Existe una investigación, una prueba, una evaluación, otra prueba, y así sucesivamente hasta llegar a un buen producto que satisfaga al usuario.¿Te has preguntado por qué existen ya tijeras para personas zurdas? De hecho, las tijeras nos las enseñar a usar de niños pero se percataron — un poco tarde- que los niños zurdos no se sentían cómodos y les costaba más trabajo aprender a usarlas.Si bien es cierto que se relaciona la Experiencia de Usuario con el Diseño de Interfaces, éste abarca muchas otras disciplinas como Diseño de Interfaces de Usuario (UI), Usabilidad, Arquitectura de la Información, Marketing, etc.Si bien es cierto que hoy en día existen múltiples anuncios en Linkedin — y otros medios- donde Hasta hace 5 años los diseñadores se concentraban en cómo se vería el diseño y probaban con solo paleta de colores, formas, retoques, etc. hasta que ellos lo vean bien.Las consultoras de UX invierten en grandes herramientas para hacer los testeos correspondientes antes de lanzar un producto al mercado. Empresas grandes llegan a invertir miles de dólares en estas pruebas así como también hay empresas que aún lo dudan y siguen fallando con el público.Si nos enfocamos en una web o aplicación, podremos recordar que antes solo nos pedían x cantidad de botones y al finalizar, recién nos pasaban la información.Muchos de los diseñadores somos jóvenes y antes se dejaba de lado y olvidado a las personas con distintas capacidades y/o de otras edades.El UX Designer debe tener mucha empatía para ponerse en el lugar del otro y enfocarse en sus necesidades.Y según Hace poco asistí al primer De hecho, nos dimos cuenta que tenía falencias a mejorar y hallamos que si una empresa tan grande no ha pensado en sus usuarios, ¿cómo se haría el cambio en proyectos más pequeños y medianos?Será un largo camino tal vez pero somos protagonistas de éste cambio.Front-end developer, UX  UI Designer, Healthy food passionate  tech lover.

by Patrizia BertiniLots of discussions revolve around the concept of user experience (UX). The biggest misconception is that UX is a fancy synonym or rebranding of design. UX is not about design, however, but about the Experience is defined as ‘knowledge gained by repeated trials,’ and UX is what we learn from observing, testing and interacting with users. Active engagement of the user is key to defining, imagining, ideating and designing a product or service that will answer an unmet opportunity.The user is the core element that informs and determines strategy, intent and execution of a plan that is eventually realized in a product or service. Ultimately, the result should serve and support, answering an unmet opportunity.Good UX incorporates a deep and thorough understanding of who users are, their behaviors, attitudes, expectations, latent needs and mental models.A successful UX project starts and ends with research. It’s characterized by a genuine and on-going interaction with people, because before someone is a user of a product, he or she is an individual.Bruno Munari, one of the most original and innovative Italian designers, created amazing design experiments. In UX the product or service is a means to a goal. It’s a functional, seamless form that performs an action in the least evident and invasive way, improving people’s lives. In the long debate between form and function in design, UX goes a step further because its aim is to hide function in form, and form in an interaction delighting the user.UX is all about understanding, anticipating and providing solutions that, through invisible and subtle interactions, seamlessly integrate with the user’s world of social and practical needs.The can be achieved only by meeting the user — engaging, observing, talking to and challenging people.The rise of qualitative research methods, such as ethnographic studies, demonstrates that UX is not mere design but a wide, encompassing strategy focused on little details that make the difference. While perhaps invisible, these details, if captured, can give birth to game-changer products and services.Tagged: We are an innovation-led, digital transformation partner. We focus on the things that matter — Insight, interaction, integration, and innovation.

Тренды веб-дизайна — мощная штука. Тренды На случай, если последние десять лет вы провели в пещере: у всех ваших приложений, которые раньше выглядели как настоящие блокноты, радиоприемники и прочие объекты реального мира, теперь минималистичные, 2d-интерфейсы, совершенно не похожие на что-то реальное.Кто-то говорит, что дизайн становится более цифровым, так как мир теперь уже понимает, как работают цифровые вещи. Например, нам больше не нужно делать переключатель в приложении похожим на выключатель света в ванной. Отсюда и вытекает сегодняшний вопрос:а) При плоском дизайне на экране меньше деталей — а, значит, он проще в использовании.б) Джони Айв — бог, и он выбрал плоский дизайн. Поэтому плоский дизайн — лучше всех.в) Мне больше нравится плоский дизайн — значит и пользователям он понравится тоже.г) Перейдя на плоский дизайн, обратно уже не вернешься.Плоский дизайн — это стиль.И этот стиль проще создавать, по сравнению реалистичным стилем. Поэтому, благодаря плоскому дизайну, множество дизайнеров (включая самых молодых) могут создавать работы, которые выглядят профессионально. И это — большое преимущество плоского дизайна.Скевоморфический дизайн (тот, где объекты выглядят реалистично), пожалуй, проще воспринимается пользователями, которые сталкиваются с объектами дизайна впервые, но вот “хороший” UX никак не связан со стилем.Помните: суть UX вообщеВ случае с плоским и не плоским дизайном есть своя уловка-22: в не плоском дизайне в вашем распоряжении больше визуальных инструментов. Минималистичный UX-дизайн не проще, а сложнее для Тени добавляют глубины, а благодаря градиентам проще разграничить кнопки и фон. Текстуры позволяют дизайнеру сделать поля для заполнения похожими на бумажные, что позволяет многое объяснить без слов.В минималистичном, плоском дизайне эти поля могут выглядеть как белая пустота, ни о чем не говорящая новому пользователю.Хотя многие тренды плоского дизайна выглядят круче, их Большой процент пользователей до сих пор не понимает сути иконок-гамбургеров, так что эти люди вообще не пользуются спрятанным меню.На многие объекты реже кликают, так как они выглядят как текст. Если ничто не намекает на их “кликабельность”, то люди и не нажимают на них.На современных сайтах поле поиска зачастую выглядит как пустое место — ведь это так круто! Но даже такие крупные сайты, как Facebook и Medium, пытаются сделать поиск более четким и понятным, так как полное отсутствие интерфейса не приносит результатов.Не важно, что вам диктуют моднейшие модники: всегда думайте о пользователе.Плоский дизайн — это здорово, и, если выполнить его качественно, — он будет так же хорош, как и любой другой стиль. Он уже был в моде в 1940–60-х (Швейцарский стиль, Баухаус и т.д.). А еще в времена рисования на стенах пещер. И, наверное, снова войдет в моду в будущем. Пользуйтесь им! Вносите что-то новое! Старайтесь его улучшить!Но, в первую очередь, думайте о пользователе.Покажите меню и пусть оно выглядит кликабельным.Поработайте над информационной архитектурой: сделайте меню таким простым, чтобы можно было целиком отобразить его на странице. Это ХОРОШО.Если вы уверены, что вам необходима иконка-гамбургер, то вы, вероятно, просто ленитесь. Но в этом случае хотя бы используйте цветной фон кнопки или подпишите рядом “меню”, чтобы остальные люди знали, что это, черт возьми, за кнопка.В поле поиска добавьте лупу и небольшой текст-подсказку, вроде “Искать еще пушистиков неподалеку от вас…”. Ну или что там вписывается в ваш проект….Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. От профессионалов новичкам

Na edição deste ano do Rebeca Umai, criadora do conceito, defende que na concepção dos projetos digitais, em pontos de contato interface-usuário, anotações e ilustrações não são suficientes para prever e exemplificar o que ocorre entre as interações. Ao considerar o movimento, temos maior controle da experiência oferecida ao usuário.Logo, quem melhor que a Disney para falar de movimento? Apresentados em 1981, os 12 Princípios da Animação exemplificam um profundo entendimento de como as coisas se comportam, combinando movimentos realistas com o envolvimento emocional do público. Entendendo essa mistura de extremos, começamos a dar vida ao UX Choreography.Para dar forma ao conceito, Rebeca dividiu o UX Choreography em 5 tópicos, baseados na jornada do usuário, que foram ilustrados ao vivo pelo experiente animador Glen Kane e que agora apresento a vocês (de forma bem mais modesta).Usado para mostrar se uma ação foi ou não bem sucedida, se algo está carregando ou simplesmente fazendo progresso, o Qual ação você quer que seu usuário realize? O São infinitos os recursos visuais e tecnológicos que existem para criar um ambiente virtual, porém, é preciso elaborar estratégias para que o fluxo de informação e a disposição dos elementos faça sentido para o usuário. O O quarto tópico é sobre a importância da hierarquia da informação em cada momento da jornada do usuário. Deixar claro que o que é importante naquele momento, ajuda o usuário a prestar atenção nas coisas certas e traz clareza e objetividade para a experiência. Para apoiar este conceito, Rebeca cita um 13º princípio, apelidado de Em seu ultimo tópico, Rebeca defende que as plataformas devem refletir a personalidade da marca que as mantêm. É importante que o consumidor identifique-se com o tom de voz da marca, que deve ser trabalhado de maneira holística e não só no aplicativo. O processo para achar este tom de voz é complicado e muita vezes baseia-se na intuição, porém, quando bem usado, cria uma identidade e torna o resultado final emocional e atraente. O príncipio da Disney que nos adiciona aqui é o Os cinco princípios apresentados aqui, falam um pouco de como é necessário cativar seu público através de histórias. Nos mostram a importância da integração na animação para criar uma experiência que seja realista e emocional, tendo como foco não só os personagens da história, mas também o personagem central: o usuário.Se você gostou desse artigo e quer saber mais, acesse o 

There are few events that ever affected me in a way that this year’s And even more than reliving the event by watching the photos and going through the links to the lightning talk presentations, I am looking forward to reading the organisers’ evaluation of the event (For the sake of consistency and continuity of this post, I will refer to the speakers, workshop leaders and other participants of UX open, whom I had the pleasure and honour of meeting and chatting with, as “UX people”.)Across the 16 lightning talks, uncountable discussions in open spaces, engaged fish bowl panel discussions and most pleasant conversations over coffee and lunch, I have picked up on these four common themes.Would it come as a surprise that UX people cannot seem to agree on what user experience is or should be? The different definitions seem to correspond to people’s different perspectives depending on their professional and academic background, current assignments and nature of work. Ranging between a way of doing things to a way of thinking things to not a “way” at all, the definition of user experience is rather far from being widespread, common and agreed upon.As a result of this disagreement, however reluctant it may be, UX people can neither seem to agree on how to call themselves. The variations of titles represented at UX open are if not scary, then unsettling at least. One of the fish bowl panel discussion participants expressed it in the style of, “it’s funny how we work on making things easier for people to understand, though we can’t make what we work on easier to understand”. What I noticed they do agree on, however, is that it is okay to disagree on the titles.UX people seem to also agree on why user experience is important, or at least that it UX people are encouraged not to build for users, but rather with them, listening and learning. Whatever the definition, one thing seems to be certain. User experience is more about people than it is about programs, more about principles than it is about procedures, more about practices than it is about processes.I noticed that UX people are keen on sharing methods and tools that help them do their work well. Whether it is finding ways of engaging users or working on analysing the gained insights, they are mindful of the differences in approaches and eager to learn from one another.One aspect of user experience touched upon in some lightning talks and open spaces was what user experience encompassed. During recent years it has become referred to as a discipline within the web and the digital realm. Its principles are now being adopted in and by other domains, be it for the design and development of warplane cockpits or non-digital artefacts like services, meetings, environments and processes.One of the biggest challenges that many UX people seem to share is the executive and other stakeholder buy-in. While they expressed frustration with some organisations’ inability and sometimes unwillingness to see the value of user experience, many showed understanding and patience with stakeholders’ having to learn and develop at their own pace. Still, acceptance of user experience as a factor of bringing value to users and customers is on the rise in many organisations. However, it is also often seen exclusively as a facilitator of rising sales figures.The acceptance level of the value that the focus on user experience can bring into the organisation seems to be different depending on whether UX people are hired as consultants or employed in-house. Both groups point out, however, that user experience is often but a fragment of business and operations development that a company is in real need of. Oftentimes, UX people’s skills are about empowering teams within organisations to work efficiently, to communicate clearly and to deliver an effective product or service based on user- and customer-centric approaches. If the purpose of a project is to build a wall, user experience is the mortar rather than bricks.One of the most remarkable discussions during the fish bowl panel was that on whether user experience will exist and be needed in the future. Many agree that even though it is an expertise of few and a necessity today, user experience is on its way to shift focus and be the responsibility of many tomorrow. Nevertheless, it is safe to assume that the need of facilitating the focus on users’ needs within organisations, advocating for their participation in the end-result of an undertaking, as well as enabling teams to create useful and usable products and services isn’t going to run dry any time soon.What UX people are also heedful of is differentiating right from wrong. They admit to often treading the fine line between what is best for business and what is best for users. The balance that is hard to achieve, and whose absence is also hard to notice.Instead, he challenges UX people not to become obsessed with conversion rate optimisation as he argues for and urges the need of deliberately creating obstacles on users’ paths. This way we can encourage users to make conscious decisions and satisfy them in their experience stretching beyond the screen interaction and make sure we strike the balance between business goals and users’ needs.The notion of accessibility and inclusive design picks also on the ethics of user experience. Sara makes a case for inclusive design as opposed to mainstream and exclusive design. As an example, she questions traditional norms of asking for one’s gender in an online form and only providing two options — male and female. She argues that if there is a well-grounded reason for you to know the gender of your users, you must not make an assumption of everyone fitting in one or the other category.The expectations I had coming to UX open 2015 were skyscraper-high. What I saw, learned and experienced made me soar above the highest building in the capital city. I am glad I could be part of an event made possible by the participants themselves. This conference format has proven to me to be most effective. Now, this is my picture of UX open. I am eager to see you paint and share yours.User, customer and citizen experience, web, design, media and language

This is a short summary of what appears to be a huge bug on Youtube that makes it almost impossible to use Youtube effectively if you are a Deaf or hard of hearing user (or someone who speaks a language other than English) and you are reliant upon good quality captioning for accessibility and inclusion.Usually when you look at the videos on a Youtube channel you can see where captions have been published, as they’re denoted by a small “cc” icon.But lately I’ve noticed a large amount of Youtube videos that have published caption tracks which are available to users but they’ve not been rewarded with the “cc” logo.This makes it impossible for users to rely on this information.No can do!Using the Prime Minister’s “no jab, no pay” video as an example, if we navigate to Google’s own video search engine at What a shocking bug! It’s already hard enough to try and encourage Youtube content uploaders to ensure their content is captioned and if they don’t receive the “CC” icon (badge) that’s yet another barrier that can hinder accessibility outcomes.Please Google and Youtube — show some heart and rectify this issue as quickly as possible.Creator of captioning and audio description. 

（ものが）どこからどのようにして生じたというのか？ものから、ということも考えることも、わたしはおまえに許さぬであろう。なぜなら、ということは語ることも考えることもできぬゆえに。またそもそも何の必要がそれを駆り立てて以前よりもむしろ後に無から生ずるように促したのか？かくしてそれは、まったくか、まったくかのいずれかでなければならぬ。ここで、キーワードを2つ取り上げたいと思います。先ずひとつは日常生活で良く目にする駅構内の記号のように、記号はそもそも人に伝えるために存在しています。これはウェブサービスや製品、アプリも同様です。もうひとつはよって、表現者はサービスや製品の魅力は、ユーザーにちゃんと伝わっているだろうか？そして冒頭で取り上げた2つのキーワードは我々人間が普段から行っていることです。特別なスキルを持っている人のみが行えるものではありません。大切な人の誕生日や記念日に渡すプレゼントは「記号」です。そしてそのプレゼントはあなたの「伝えたい気持ち」をあらわしたものです。大切な人に気持ちを伝えるためにどのようなプレゼント（記号）を渡せばいいのか、いつ、どこで、どのように渡せば伝わるのか、あなたはきっとそのようなことを考えていると思います。結果としてお相手の体験（エクスペリエンス）は充実したものになるでしょう。ありとあらゆるユーザーの周辺環境を考慮し、表現者としてユーザーとの最適な接点を模索し、記号化する―小難しい話がなされることが多いユーザエクスペリエンス・デザインですが、こういうことだと思います。User Experience Designer / Product Owner based in Tokyo次代のより良いデジタルインフラ構築に貢献する知のネットワークを構築・活性化します。

Last week I ran a quick survey through Wufoo, an online survey creation tool, and sent it out to a handful of customers who fit a very specific criteria. I was hoping to grab some quick insights for a project which was being run in a Within a day I received a good number of responses and, happy with the general success of the survey, I was ready to move on with my work when I noticed a customer reply in my inbox that stated, simply:I actually slapped my forehead. Of course. A logo. How did I miss that?In my haste to gather some quick research, I completely forgot to consider the finer brand nuances of my correspondence. And, as a result, there was now at least one thoughtful customer out there, wondering why such a sloppy, off-brand, boilerplate survey was released into the wild from a company they respected.As a user experience designer, I’m researching all the time. This can take the form of customer interviews, usability testing and surveys. And when stakes are high, and time is limited, it’s easy to get wrapped up in the mission of gathering results, and lose sight that this may be one of the customer’s first — or most memorable — experiences with your company. Research is a user experience touchpoint that can affect a participant’s view of a product and company as much as any marketing campaign, so it’s important to be very mindful of how this is approached.So, with this in mind, here are a few tips on how to extend a great user experience to your research:I would recommend shooting for option “A”.Ensure that a great user experience extends to their visit to your office with a few simple gestures such as greeting them promptly at the door, offering coffee, tea or water, giving them a tour, compensating them generously for their time, and generally making them feel as comfortable as possible.What you want to avoid is rushing a participant procedurally through the session and hurrying them out the door. After all, they’re taking valuable time out of their day to be there — it’s up to you to ensure that it’s an enjoyable, and memorable experience. They’re likely going to mention this visit to a colleague or friend, and you want to make sure they have only great things to say.For starters, make sure all your pre-test communications are clear, consistent and sent in a timely manner. This means including any links to software that needs to be downloaded, or any documents that need to be signed, well before the scheduled testing time. What you don’t want is your participant emailing you the day before, wondering why they haven’t heard from you yet.Beginning the test on-time is appreciated, as well as accommodating any technical issues with enough information to contact a participant without adding much delay. You may run into technical snags that can be remedied through a quick phone call. Don’t leave them hanging while you quietly panic behind your monitor.And remember, the experience doesn’t end after the test. The follow-up correspondence is also key. Make sure your participant is compensated for their time and that they’re given the opportunity to provide any feedback on the session. Again, it’s useful to remind yourself that they’ve given an hour of their time to your cause. Let them know that they’re appreciated and that their opinion matters.Making the entire process feel seamless and professional goes a long way to reinforce the participant’s positive impressions of your company, even if they never step foot in your office.To ensure a great experience, it’s usually a good idea to prepare a thorough script to keep your interview on track. Make it clear that their input is valued and, if possible, what initiative it’s helping to inform.But sticking strictly to the script could give the interview an undesired formality. Therefore, it’s equally important to keep open the opportunity for some casual conversation. After all, this isn’t an interrogation. Make sure you keep your questions open-ended and encourage the participant to speak comfortably and freely, while keeping things on track whenever possible. An awkward, disorganized interview can prevent uncovering useful insights while leaving the participant with a bad impression.But, as with anything, conducting effective phone interviews is a skill. For those looking to step up their interviewing game, Rosenfeld Media’s Make sure your brand is reinforced throughout the experience, both in language and in visuals (as I learned). Pay particular attention to the grammar and spelling — the last thing you want is someone pointing out a spelling mistake instead of offering a valuable insight. Offer compensation whenever possible (or at the very least, an entry into a contest) and, lastly, avoid overloading your customers with research requests. If they start feeling spammed, it’s game over. So, start with small batches, see what kind of results you get, and increase to a broader base when needed.So there you have it, a few tips that can hopefully get you started on the right foot.Designing an engaging user experience is tough, something that all software companies are striving to achieve. Much time and effort is put into how we communicate with our customers, and ensuring a great experience is paramount to a product’s success.And while this requires the blood, sweat and tears of a product team, the research phase should never be shrugged off as merely an obligatory part of a larger process. Instead, it’s best to think of it as yet another opportunity to give your customer a fantastic experience and make them feel like a valuable contributor to something they care about.Kiley Meehan is a Toronto-based UX Designer, musician and dad.

There’s always been a bit of confusion as to what personas are and aren’t. The most important thing to remember is that How many times have you seen beautifully designed personas which simply don’t have any research behind them — based purely on assumption? We see this all too often; usually because as UX designers, we think we know a lot about our users. Unfortunately, this simply isn’t true. You should never assume that you ‘know’ your users; even if you are one! It is vital that for every project you work on, you spend time talking to your users, learning from them and ensuring the experience you design is catering for their needs.We understand that conducting proper user research is time consuming. We realise that not every project will have the time nor budget for a full discovery phase, with finely crafted, detailed personas built on hours of user research. However, this does not mean that smaller projects should suffer. It doesn’t matter how little time you have, or how small the budget is, there is always time for an hour or two of true field research. You would be surprised how much you can learn from just a few hours of guerilla research! Find a small group of people who could become potential users of your product, Put together a short survey and interview them! There really is no excuse not to get out there and meet your users.In a recent project, we were very fortunate to work with a client who understood the benefit of a proper discovery phase, and we had around a month working to the brief — We knew the users of the product would be the creative employees of a huge multinational organisation, but with thousands of employees across many different job roles — how would these translate into personas?This was when we referred back to In order to get a full understanding of our users and their behaviour patterns, we quickly realised we would need a combination of qualitative and quantitative data to build our personas. To achieve this we conducted user interviews for qualitative insights (Too much user research is based around asking straightforward questions. The problem with these questions, is you get straightforward answers! Black and white answers aren’t really what we need from our user interviews (For example, on this project we were researching for an organisation who were struggling to ensure their employees were complying to brand guidelines when producing new products. During an interview, one of our participants told us a story about her hectic everyday work life. Balancing meetings alongside her never-ending to-do list, she told us how she simply doesn’t have the time to trawl through pages and pages of a guideline document to find brand information. This is when she told us — The importance of collecting genuinely useful data from your surveys cannot be stressed enough. We see countless user surveys asking questions which are irrelevant — Do you really need to know which magazines your users read? What car they drive? How many kids they have?We’ve found the best way to avoid asking irrelevant questions is to reverse engineer them. First, write a list of all of the data you need to discover about your users and then write the corresponding questions you need to ask in order to find out that information. Finally, work hard to figure out ways to link questions together and make logic jumps throughout the survey. is it possible to assume an answer to a question based on the participant’s previous answers? The trick is to ask as few questions as possible to get the all of data you need.UX designer, rugby player and music lover.

ModevUX: A two-day conference loaded with workshops and sessions on technology and design, focused on user experience (UX), was held at the Artisphere in Arlington, VA earlier this week. The event brought in tech giants from Capital One and Facebook to discuss the future of UX. GSS attended the event last year, and we just knew we couldn’t miss this year!The audience divided into teams to discuss a product to build. Steven told us not to focus on what type of technology we’d make, like an app or wearable, but how the product solves problems.Our idea was to design a wearable that monitors the elderly’s vitals, medication application and GPS location. The product would create a clear, immediate line of communication between the elderly and caregivers.After deciding on the problem, we translated what the product is in non-technical language. Specifically, we wrote down the needs, goals, behaviors and solutions involved in the ecosystem of the product.Then, we wrote them on There was no way we could complete a two-day project in three hours — or on an empty stomach — so we stopped the project there and took lunch.Not just any cupcakes. (Mini) Georgetown Cupcake cupcakes! Each sponsor table had its own flavor with its company logo as decorative candy. ModevUX, you slay me with your cavity-inducing creativity.I did a cupcake tasting, because why not? The best flavor goes to the peanut butter and chocolate from the Arlington-sponsored table.Steve Guengerich, co-founder of Guengerich noted, it’s all about finding the right way to communicate your company’s message to your audience. “Don’t just translate the message — adapt it for the culture and region.”For example, you won’t find most US apps or social media platforms in China. Facebook and Google, in fact, are illegal.Logging into Facebook in China can be easy with a VPN, even though it’s technically illegal. The bigger problem stems from posting content then the government deleting those posts. “It’s a real cat and mouse game,” he added.What is popular in China is the texting For the final workshop of the day, ModevUX ended with words of wisdom from life coach Gordon invited a member from the audience to find their life purpose. At first I thought it was a little rushed and gimmicky.But the four questions he asked dug deep:Being mindful of these traits will help find your life purpose, Montgomery promises.I might not have found my life purpose at ModevUX, but I did find the happy hour waiting for me afterward. And really, what more could you ask for at the end of a daylong conference?Using our comprehensive analytics reporting software — BrandWatch — we analyzed important engagement factors for ModevUX on social media.Here’s what we found:There was a slight majority of men over women discussing the event. Not surprisingly, most of the professionals were in the software and IT field. More people listed fine arts as their interest than technology. Interesting.Check out the topic comparisons by gender: Women like the business model, men like the workshops. There’s probably an argument to be made about “thinkers” and “doers” here, but we’re not taking sides!Also interesting was #meerkat being the most popular hashtag, right after #modevux and #ux.The most mentioned tweeters were @gomodev, @jmspool and @abby_the_ia.And the tweeter with the most impact goes to Georgetown Cupcake (@GTownCupcake). Shocker, right? #wholovescupcakes #welovecupcakesFearlessly Agile // Web Dev + Social Media Dev + Biz Dev + Biz Consulting + Data  Comparative Analytics Resource

Lean UX is a new concept in its youth and inspired from Agile development is becoming increasingly mainstream. But there are difficulties to integrate UX with Agile in order to build human factors into Agile development processes. Lean UX methodology is a junction and coexistence of Lean Startup and UX. Despite the differences in objectives of UX (i.e. good usability, positive experience) and Lean principles (i.e. increasing revenue), both approaches put user — or client — in a focus of the design. Nielsen et al. proposed that 2. Lean Startup principles for3. Design thinking forAs mentioned before, Lean UX is still very much in its youth and is gathering an increasing amount of momentum and attention. The term was born as a result of Eric Ries’s (2011) “The Lean Startup” book and movement, which encourages rapid prototyping and user validation and the continuous deployment of production code in response to a fast-moving market. The idea of integrating design into this process led to the creation of the idea of Lean UX.A lot of from Lean UX seem very familiar to people who are used to Agile and UX, but Lean UX introduces a few new things that are not found in other practices.Lean UX center around validating hypothesis. This is different from traditional way of design in Agile. In Lean UX, not only a specific group (e.g. a group consisting of designer, client, project manager) decides for product requirements. The entire team and client produce design and feature assumptions which might be useful and correct. Afterwards, these assumptions are prototyped as an MVP and tested by users. According to user feedback, assumptions will become a requirement or not.In summary, instead of thinking of a product as a series of features to build, Lean UX looks at a product as a set of hypothesis to be validated by users. By this way, the best degree of UX should be reached.It is a new form of development mindset and individuals included in such a life cycle has to have additional skills. For example, change management is a term from traditional and also agile management. It is basically defined as responding to changes which can occur. Lean UX is purely change management and changing everything constantly according to user feedback. Project scoping is not really important and a big phase. At the beginning of a project or an iteration cycle, there is no scope. There are only some assumptions to validate.Lean UX borrows very heavily from Agile. For example, Agile methods include cross-­functional teams. This is also critical in Lean UX to make entire design and development process faster and easier to change. Agile gets rid of a lot of documentation and product requirement specifications in order to be agile. Lean UX too. Instead of creating long documents, Lean UX try to deliver only most important artefacts. For example, instead of requirements document, just a flow diagram or a sketch. This a mind shift for creative and technical stuff who are used to documentations for project scope, requirements etc.If we observe Lean UX from the project management perspective, it is not a new PMLC model. The same processes from adaptive PMLC are used in Lean UX. The new thing is how processes are designed and which tools and templates are used. The most significant difference is involving users in almost every activity and decision making process. It is important to understand that involving users doesn’t mean involving client.UX ArchitectStuff on Design: UX, UI, Prototyping and more

Raccolta “definitiva” di link a siti internazionali dedicate alla progettazione di interfacce web e risorse utili all’evoluzione della User Experience Design anche in Italia.Un tremendo bisogno  di non saper la verità e vedere la fantasia.

I did not know what “UX” meant before becoming a User Experience Designer. The term popped up here and there, but I never bothered to look it up. “UI” was a familiar term because I had already been designing user interfaces for a few years. It was only once I interviewed for a UX position at Microsoft that I came to realize that there is this split between User Interface and User Experience. Although not the most popular of opinions, I believe the notion of there being a split is false and that it’s more of a “symbiotic” relationship, each side of the equation as necessary as the other.In the picture above you’ll see a classic glass ketchup bottle on the left. It’s sleek and shiny, the label is clear and the contents are visible. It’s a fairly nice looking product; it has a beautiful interface. On the right you’ll see a more modern plastic bottle. It’s designed to decrease the amount of effort and mess involved with extracting the ketchup from the bottle, and still has a clear label and visible content. It’s a fairly nice looking product and offers a great experience.The typical consumer will choose the product that offers a great experience and here is why. When a consumer looks at the bottle on the left, they may at first be drawn to the nostalgic feelings of a glass bottle and the novelty of a retro item. Perhaps they are against the idea of using plastics, noting the supposed environmental benefit of using glass. But, ultimately, they will associate the glass bottle with mess. It’s difficult to remove the contents of the bottle, there is a lack of control, they have experienced this. Remember, the product on the right was chosen because of it’s positive user experience. What if it had even more precision and even less mess, but was lacking a beautiful interface? What if it looked like this:This design lacks any traces of having a beautiful interface, but certainly offers a positive user experience. A typical consumer will sacrifice the increase in ease of use and instead go with the plastic ketchup bottle mentioned before. Why? This is the tip of the iceberg for what is ultimately a longer discussion. Important to note is that my argument barely touched on convention and how subjectivity tends to play a major role in design decisions.In conclusion, I believe that a user interface is not beautiful without a positive experience and a user experience is not positive without a beautiful interface. Not only is a Husband. Father. Always looking to learn. I do web/startup things. Designer  developer, currently work in marketing (don’t hold it against me).

Mình rất thích đi cafe mặc dù đa số những trường hợp đều chỉ có 1 thân 1 cõi :D. Mình cũng là đứa tò mò, hay có câu hỏi về những thứ xung quanh như Nói về branding, ai cũng đồng ý rằng nó có tầm quan trọng rất lớn đối với việc phát triển 1 thương hiệu. Hiểu nôm na thì branding là Cách dễ nhất, tự nhiên nhất để nâng cao tần suất chú ý của người dùng là đặt logo/nhãn hiệu ở vị trí thích hợp, tiện lợi cho việc nhìn. Theo trực giác, ta có thể suy ra vị trí tiện lợi nhất cho việc nhìn là Trở lại với ly cafe :D. Thông thường, văn hoá cafe người Việt chủ yếu là ngồi uống, ly cafe đặt trên bàn. Đồng thời, những lúc người uống tương tác với ly cafe bao gồm:Trong cả 3 trường hợp trên thì mắt hầu như lúc nào cũng ở vị trí cao hơn so với ly. Điều này cho ta 1 giả thuyết: 

We’ve all been there. You hop into a car with a fancy navigation unit built into its dash and you think, “hm, maybe I’ll try using the in-dash navigation today. After all, it’s the right thing to do.” 15 minutes later, after multiple failed attempts at entering an address you whip out your smartphone and turn on Google Maps.This only happens to me in rental cars now since I’ve long given up on automotive infotainment systems in my own cars, but this kind of bad design is found everywhere — even in the most expensive of cars (like the $845,000 Porsche 918), as illustrated by this great post by design firm Teehan+Lax (now part of facebook).Teehan+Lax also correctly points out the fundamental problems with in-car units that inevitably lead people to use their smartphones while driving.Google’s Android Auto and Apple’s Carplay moves the industry in the right direction, providing drivers with better integration of the smartphone and car. For the rest of us who don’t want to wait years for these systems to become widely available or shell out $30k+ for a new car? Stay tuned for the new Drivemode this summer ☺Designing the future of car tech and in-car UX

I was an Android user for about 5 years, and I loved it. But as a UX Designer, the mounting pressure to prioritize “iOS first” got the best of me, and I figured if I used iOS everyday and learned the interactions first-hand, designing would becoming more intuitive and would involve less research time. So, after I made the switch (from the Samsung Galaxy S3 to the iPhone 6) I noticed pros and cons about each that I’d like to share in a series of articles, feature by feature, starting with the native alarm app.In this episode, I will demonstrate just how much the native Apple alarm app has to learn from the native Android alarm app.User story: As a person who likes to use multiple alarms throughout my week, I’d like to easily and accurately set and save alarms so that I can wake up on time and remember to do important things.One of my favorite things about setting my alarm every night on my Android phone was the confirmation of how much sleep I was going to get. I can’t function on less than 6 hours, but I wake up groggy with more than 8 hours. This is a delicate window of sleep optimization, and it’s important to me that I have a tool that helps me achieve this goal.The image to the left is where the user sets the time in the Android alarm app. Notice that the alarm is set to “AM”, and therefore the background appears with a sunny blue sky indicating daylight. This is great confirmation for the user that they are, in fact, setting an alarm for the morning. Also, the app helps out the user by doing the math for them: it lets her know how many hours and minutes from the current time the alarm is about to be set to. (After saving, the total amount of sleep also appears for a brief moment.) So long, mental anguish of checking to make sure I’ll be up and able to make my morning meeting on time! Lastly, there’s flexibility to set the alarm for multiple times in the week and to “repeat weekly”.Now let’s contrast the same step on the iPhone…Take a quick scan of the iOS alarm app to the left. Suppose I want to set my alarm for 9:00am. On Android, I’d type this out, which is much faster than scrolling to it, as we have here. More work, less ideal. Secondly, notice how there’s no confirmation of how far away the alarm is being set for, nor whether the alarm will ring during the day or night. Minimalistic design is not always best, and especially not when it compromises good UX. Finally, the options for setting repeat alarms is much more limited. The onlhy options are “Every Monday, Every Tuesday…” and so forth.Let’s switch back to Android for a hot minute…Notice the confirmation again of which alarms are set for what times of day: daytime or nighttime. I like to set myself reminders to do something (for example, here I have “pickup mom from airport”), or sometimes I want to take a nap before meeting up with friends for drinks at night, so I find this feature very handy. Regarding the UI elements, if I want to turn off an alarm, I simply tap the green clock on the right, and the clock turns to black. If I want to edit an alarm, I simply tap on any other area within the rectangle. Simple interactions make for seamless UX.On the other hand, what does it take to turn off an alarm on iOS? Turning an alarm off is easy enough; the user moves the slider on the right towards the left. I contend that a tap is always easier than a swipe, so Android has it right here. And if I want to edit an alarm, do I simply tap on the alarm I want to edit? Well no, tapping does nothing on iOS. Instead, the user has to tap on “Edit” in the top left corner, then choose the alarm that she wants to edit. (See next image…)This extra step frustrates me every single time I have to do it.Think about the user that wants to set an alarm. She’s probably tired, and she probably wants to get to sleep ASAP. She doesn’t want to toil over whether or not the alarm is set for the right time. Android clearly wins this challenge with their simple UI and choice confirmations throughout the process.Android: 1 | Apple: 0Stay tuned for the next iOS v Android UX showdown, where we explore photo organization.Freelance Design Writer | 

Hearing about a magnificent rainbow doesn’t hold a candle to You cannot talk about apps nowadays without mentioning user experience (UX) and how crucial it is to an app’s success. There are so many apps available in the app market that if a user finds something problematic with yours they can easily drop it and locate an equivalent app. It is hard enough to draw the attention of someone looking to download an app, let alone hold on to them, so you will want to make sure your app is flawless and not give users any reason to abandon it.To accomplish this, you will need exceptional UX. It is of utmost importance that load times are quick, that the user interface (UI) has no issues — regardless of mobile device or platform, that there are no crashes, and so on. As hinted above, obtaining users and keeping users are both challenges, but two very different beasts. Through app store optimization and a series of different techniques, it is possible to rank well in app stores and gain the exposure you need to get your app out there and downloaded, but the next step is most crucial, the one that will inevitably make-or-break your app: user retention.Holding on to your users can be a challenge. The efforts that are required to accomplish this are not minimal, but they are necessary. We will touch on those a bit later in this post.An important part of making sure your users are satisfied with using your app is tracking what is happening within the app on the aggregated session level as well as on the user session level. Traditional analytics — such as Google Analytics and To gain insight into the why behind user actions and acquire an in-depth understanding of the user experience, a visual analytics solution is ideal, much like the one There are two visual features that are key to getting those insights for improved user retention, and combined, they offer a top-down/bottom-up approach to success: user recordings and touch heatmaps.User Recordings are the bottom-up side of the equation. User recordings allow you to watch actual user sessions and see exactly how users experience an app in order to understand where the pain-points are. They provide user-level data that offers insights into how users experience any juncture of the app, from the onboarding process to login to making a purchase, as well as visual access that makes abundantly clear where users run into technical problems or issues with usability and UX.The video below explains exactly how the user recording works. In this particular case, a user received an error pop-up when attempting to log in to Facebook, indicating a technical problem with the app. It is possible the user will attempt to log in a second time, and maybe even a third, but with a recurring error a user will get frustrated and leave the app, mostly likely never to return. User recordings will showcase why your retention rate is so low and provide insights into how it can be improved.The top-down half comes from Touch Heatmaps, which aggregate data so you can optimize multiple factors of the app, such as UI design and usability, based on your analysis of the user behavior. Touch heatmaps record all touch gestures, like taps, pinches, and swipes, and allows you to see where and what on the screen is used most, so if there is a feature on the screen that is generally ignored by users, you can decide to remove it from the page, freeing up space on the small screen and fine-tuning the UI.Together, you get a complete picture of how a user engaged with your app so you can begin to understand the reasons behind their actions and what measures need to be taken in order to improve the retention, and the overall UX. If the problem is technical, developers know exactly what it is they need to correct in order to get things running smoothly again. If the issue is with UI, UX, or usability, it is easy to alter the app based on what users were having trouble dealing with.Optimizing the UX and providing a flawless app leads to a drop in abandonment rates and an increase in user retention rates. Gaining access into the way real users interact with your app via visual analytics is the remedy for user drop-off and the key to giving them a reason to return to it, time and again.Appsee is a simple and powerful visual mobile analytics platform that enables you to measure, understand and improve the user experience in your mobile apps.

User experience (“UX”) is about designing great products and services that are a pleasure for people (“users”) to use. In other words, designing great User Experience is not computer programming, and it’s not graphic / UI design — it bridges the two. Think of an Oreo cookie: UX is the good stuff in the middle.You’ve probably become aware of user experience in a bad way if you’ve ever become frustrated while online. Think of the time when you painstakingly filled out a long form, only to accidentally hit a ‘clear’ button when you meant to select ‘submit’. The discipline of UX would question the benefits of having a ‘clear’ button in the first place.The funny thing is that people blame themselves for bad UX, eg, “My thumbs are too big.”Your thumbs are not too big, it’s the design that’s too small.Conversely, if you can accomplish what you set out to do online, for example, easily transfer funds using your mobile banking app, that’s good UX. Good UX ensures you can easily accomplish tasks. In fact, great UX is invisible.If you are able to easily accomplish tasks, you can feel good about yourself. That’s why I think UX makes the world a better place.What does it take to create great experiences? It starts by researching, understanding and empathizing with the people who will use the product or service, and in testing and refining your designs on actual people. It takes a deep, thorough understanding of people’s needs and their behaviour. Without this empathetic understanding, you may be a designer, but you’re not a User Experience designer.Many people also confuse the visual design of the User Interface (UI) with UX. The UI may be the tangible manifestation of the UX ‘iceberg’ but there are actually many steps that must be undertaken before we think about the colour of the buttons or snazzy animations.An analogy to describe this would be when creating a building:User Experience is actually made up of many different disciplines, tools and activities. This is why UX is fascinating to me — because designing great experiences means I get to wear ‘many hats’:On any given day, I also wear the hats of comic book artist, industrial designer, librarian, ergonomist, architect, psychologist, business consultant, inventor, storyteller and more.Now you know what it takes to create great experiences, and that bad UX is not your fault. I encourage you to incorporate UX into your own life + work and make the world a better place.I ❤ UX

Você já deve ter ouvido falar sobre a profissão de piloto de avião (ou helicóptero), e como a experiência de um profissional é medida com base no número de horas de vôo que ele possui.Quantas horas-usuário você possui em UX?Em um A proposta surge depois de observar uma relação direta entre horas de exposição e qualidade do design: quanto mais horas vendo e conversando com usuários que interagem com seus designs (ou designs de competidores), melhor é a qualidade do design produzido por um profissional.Há algum tempo Jared começou a colocar esse conceito em prática em sua consultoria, onde cada membro do time precisa adquirir e acumular tempo de exposição a usuários.Segundo o autor, o modelo funciona melhor do que nos times onde existem pesquisadores dedicados (a pessoa que realiza os testes é diferente da pessoa que executa o design). O nível de qualidade e de amadurecimento profissional não tão bom quanto ver, você mesmo, os usuários reagindo aos layouts que você criou.Outro conceito proposto por Jared Spool remete àquela velha questão de “quantos usuários são necessários para testar um produto?”. Segundo ele, 2 horas de estudo com um mesmo participante podem ser tão valiosas quanto 8 testes de 15 minutos com usuários diferentes.É mais sobre É comum que, à medida em que novas funcionalidades são adicionadas ao produto, o time comece a perceber que a interface vá ficando mais complexa. Mas sem olhar usuários interagindo com o produto, fica difícil mensurar o impacto dessas funcionalidades na Quando você deixa de ver usuários interagindo com seu produto, você começa a perder poder de argumentação em reuniões e em momentos onde as decisões de design são tomadas.Uma solução interessante é organizar visitas de campo para observar usuários interagindo com o produto. Em dez visitas de duas horas cada, membros do time conseguem acumular pelo menos vinte horas de exposição e ver um bom número de usuários tentando usar o produto de formas diferentes.Se o objetivo é acumular “horas de vôo” como UX Designer, testes de usabilidade presenciais, onde designer e usuário interagem um-a-um, continuam sendo a forma mais eficaz de desenvolver suas habilidades de entender como as pessoas pensam.Jared ainda propõe uma combinação entre visitas de campo e testes de usabilidade. Começar com visitas de campo informais ajudam os designers a entenderem as tarefas mais comuns que os usuários tentam realizar ao usar o produto — e esse aprendizado pode ajudá-los a bolar um roteiro mais estruturado para um futuro teste de usabilidade. Segundo ele, essa combinação tem se mostrado bastante eficaz em sua consultoria.A Elisa Volpato já tinha escrito sobre isso por aqui há alguns meses, dá uma olhada:“A cada pesquisa você aprende muita coisa nova sobre interface e sobre como as pessoas pensam. E isso você não perde nunca. Com a soma de aprendizados, você vai formando uma boa base de conhecimento que pode te dar mais segurança e inspiração para desenhar projetos futuros.Sobre isso: o Jared Spool veio ao Brasil no Continue lendo: Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

Everything we interact with has a user experience; Every day, in the run of the mill minutiae of life, we run up against many tiny frustrations that we’ve just come to accept as the way things are.A key part of designing and delivering better services is finding and eliminating those points of friction for the user.For the past eight months I’ve been working for HMRC designing digital services, and central to everything we do is the user.The culture set by GDS is different to other places I’ve worked. Traditionally user testing, where done at all, was part of the process that happened towards the end. Its impact on the final product was therefore small.All services should start with a user need, and with interaction between us and the user to see how we can best address it. There are posters around the office that remind us, As a designer constant user research is a gold mine. It has become an indispensable part of my workflow. I’ve learned to accept that I simply don’t know everything, and on some subjects I don’t know anything. Far from being frustrating this realisation is empowering, because I have access to the people who do know — the users.It’s okay not to know all of the answers. It’s even okay not to know all of the questions. But it’s not okay to ignore users, because then you’ll never find out.We’re presently working on a service that allows people to ask people they trust to help them use our online services. It’s exciting the potential a service like this has to make life easier for the millions of people who struggle with using technology.It’s not perfect. I feel like I spend many hours staring at screens, shaking my head, and adjusting things.I’m not blogging to tell you that we have perfected it, we haven’t. But under traditional methods? This would have been released in its initial state and it would have failed to meet people’s needs. Instead we take it out to users every two weeks, sometimes with impromptu research in-between, then iterate changes based on what we find out.It may not be there yet, but it’s far better than it was and we’ve had some great feedback. There are still problems we’ve not yet solved but, through user research, we’re discovering the things that users struggle with and designing better ways for them to interact with the service.Every system and service has pain points for users. If you think you have the perfect service, you don’t — the perfect service is an elusive ideal. The difference between good and bad services is whether the points of friction are found, acknowledged, and addressed.The perfect service may be out of our grasp, but by continually looking towards that goal we can build better user experiences that improve over time.As Oscar Wilde would say, UX Designer. Presently designing online services for UK Government. Views my own.

Since I was young I have a very sensitive way of perceive the beauty of an interface. Although I have an Engineering degree, I used to work designing websites because I loved it. I believe technology and engineering on their own are useless if you also don’t have a skillfully crafted experience for the user of your product.A few years ago when I was working as an intern at the I consider that user experience and user centered design have a huge value that allows us to think at the same time in the construction of a successful business and in building an outstanding experience for the user. Unfortunately, the importance of this discipline is unknown for many of the first-time entrepreneurs -and even more experienced ones too-. Not thinking about this could introduce a big risk in their business survival.Working on the UX is not drawing boxes arbitrary or defining the process flow based on its creator will. UX, as a key discipline in the process of a product development, has its own techniques and can be measured. There are a lot of studies and theoretical basis about its processes, and Nowadays that the tech barrier is lower than in the past, and with the maturity of the average internet user, a product perfectly designed from its conception is a key factor in the differentiation of a business. Considering it as something that you could add or do at the end of a product development process is a very bad idea. Even worse if you definitely don’t consider UX at all. It should and must be contemplated from the very beginning of every product development process.Building great experiences implies taking care of every single interaction of the user with the product. And you should know that a bad experience will turn a user into a detractor, they may even end up spreading the word about how bad is your product and why no one should use it, but There are many ways to start working on this We’ll go deep into this techniques shortly, so We are a web and mobile development shop based in Buenos Aires. We provide high quality tech teams on demand for startups. 

Today wraps up the first week of General Assembly’s User Experience Design Immersive, or UXDI for short. Coming into this course, I really had no idea what to expect. Everything I thought I knew about UX either came from books or random blogs, but I was prepared to throw everything out the window and start anew. I knew there would be projects involved that would make up your final portfolio. What I did not know was that there would be a project due right from the get go.The very first project involved us rapidly prototyping with the aim of having a working mobile application in the end. Paired up with a partner, we had to find out what their favorite show was and create an app matching their needs accordingly. We then had to present it to the rest of the class and walk them through the thought process on how we arrived at the finalized product. Simple enough…right?Wet behind the ears in UX, I reached back and relied on my business development background to help me begin the process. I knew the goal here was to design an app based on our partner’s favorite show that met their needs and wants.I conducted an interview with one of our classmates, Michael Ragland, a Californian native who ventured the world living abroad for 19 years. Now back in CA and residing in Santa Monica, he enjoys catching up on some of his favorite shows. Being a huge history buff and a fan of Nordic history, his top show is none other than History Channel’s Vikings.I learned from Michael that an app was available for Vikings called Vikings Ultimate Reality created by AE Networks, who owns History channel. However, he was very disappointed that it did not provide enough options nor content. Digging deeper, I wanted to understand why he had such a negative experience. From my interview with Michael , this was what I found.Now that we have established the pain points of the current app, I now wanted to ensure the revamped version satisfies Michael’s needs. I worked with him to come up with a wish list of what he would like to have.Wanting to see if he needed additional features, I suggested if he would like a social aspect to the app since that is a feature most apps would include. I also wanted to see if a gallery of the cast and crew would be beneficial. These items turned out unnecessary — which confused me a bit because that’s something Interested to empathize with Michael’s negative experience, I downloaded Vikings Ultimate Reality myself as part of my research. Mapping out the user flow, this is what the app looked like.After playing around extensively with the app, I can validate every single one of Michael’s complaints. It was difficult to determine the function of the app, and along with limited content, it seemed that the creators wanted to rush something out there just for the sake of having an app. For a show with such amazing production, it did seem a bit out of place having released such a mediocre app.Listing out and grouping Michael’s concerns and what he’s looking for, we can see that they fall into two main camps:This makes it very easy for me to work with. For the new app, I want to make sure there is relevant content for Michael along with an easy to use interface.To get a general idea and establish a starting point, I started with a quick notebook sketch of the proposed app and made sure to highlight all of my user’s needs.Fleshing it out a bit more, I added additional sub-levels where Michael can access more information.This is definitely starting to feel like a real app now. But why stop there? I decided to have the all the categories link to each other as historical content is the most significant feature my user is looking for. Linking them together allows information to be cross referenced and enhance the reading experience.So what changed and how have we addressed the issues?Drafting up the wireframes in myBalsamiq, I kept the interface as simple as possible. From any screen, Michael can easily go back to the main menu by pressing the Vikings logo at the top. Feel free to play around with my prototype I was fortunate enough to have my user test out the prototype and initial impressions seemed to be very positive. With no instructions from me on how to utilize the app, Michael had no trouble navigating through the different levels and enjoyed the new interface. Even though there were no actual content (only fillers), he was excited at the potential of it and how the information will be eventually laid out. He was also very impressed with the map feature and felt it was exactly what he was looking for. High fives all around!The first week flew by quickly and the materials presented at breakneck speed. The class was devised in such a way where we “do” while we “learn” which, in my opinion, is the best way to absorb information as we apply new skills in real-time.Since I am used to working with deadlines, I made sure I divided my time wisely as we only had three days to complete the project (I knew I would lose one night working as it was my fantasy football league’s draft). I only focused on the main goals of the project and what my user needed rather than trying to fit in every feature. Instead of whittling down an app with every bell and whistle under the sun, building it from the ground up allowed me to keep it as lean as possible — which also translated to a much more faster process once I started to build the prototype.In my journey becoming an UX designer, I felt that this first project was an introduction into the process. I have come to the realization that UX design is not just about designing pretty apps or creating beautiful websites (although that’s always a plus), but rather solving problems. As designer, you are responsible for understanding who your users are and their needs, empathizing with their pain points, and finally, how to overcome them through thoughtful design. In a way, the process is surprisingly similar to the Scientific Method, where you ask a question, research, hypothesize, and analyze using empirical data. Rinse and repeat.With one project now under my belt, I am definitely looking forward to future ones along with the new concepts that go with them. Here’s to the next nine weeks!I like to make nice things and make things nice.

Early on in my professional life I got some great advice about how to move one’s career forward. A mentor told me to find someone who is already where I want to be, then call them and ask for directions. In other words, reach out to people who are successfully doing what you want to do and ask them for advice; learn from their wisdom and experience.Earlier this year I was hired to head up the UX design for a large, technology-driven healthcare company in Nashville, TN. I’m now working on a custom, multi-portal platform that serves 13 discrete user groups who need to interface at various levels with the 90 million cases we manage. Because my new position is a bit more visible, I’m starting to get asked fairly often for advice on how to get into the field of UX Design.I still consider myself very much a work-in-progress; I’m learning new things every day. But it occurred to me I might be far enough along to be able to offer some thoughts and insights to those considering a career in user experience design. I’ve benefitted from a lot of great advice and help along the way and I hope this article is one way I can “pay it forward”.I’ve written elsewhere about how my career has been built more on serendipity than on strategy. (I’ve actually been doing UX design since before the term “UX design” was coined.) Along the way I’ve learned a lot from working with people across a wide range of disciplines — programmers, web designers, data architects, business analysts, entrepreneurs, graphic designers, developers, other UX designers. My observations and experiences over the past 20 years have led me to conclude that there is a particular personality quality or natural aptitude that seems to separate successful, happy UX designers from struggling, frustrated UX designers. This is what I’ve come to refer to as the “UX State of Mind”.Obviously anyone can do the What attributes constitute a UX State of Mind? Here are five I have identified:It seems those who thrive the most in the UX design world are the people who are always learning, asking questions, and challenging the status quo. Their favorite questions are “why?” and “what if?”This trait runs through every area of their lives, not just the day job. They wonder why the grocery store puts the fresh produce section first, why the car rental agency didn’t program its own location in the GPS, why the appliance manufacturer used separate On and Off buttons, rather than one button that toggles?They are as curious about human nature as they are about technology and processes. They like to people-watch at airports and shopping malls, taking note of things like foot traffic patterns, usage of revolving doors vs. swinging doors, and the efficacy of different types of signage. This is why, as much as they enjoy diving into data and analytics, great UX designers love spending time with their users even more; watching, asking questions, having conversations. A great UX designer knows and loves the users he or she is designing for.I believe its because of this inquisitive nature is that many successful UX designers are polymaths, people whose expertise spans a number of different subject areas. This allows them to draw on complex bodies of knowledge to solve specific problems.One of the biggest intangibles for a UX designer is their lateral thinking skills; their ability to quickly identify patterns, logical rules and trends in data, integrate this information, and apply it to solve problems. UX designers often have a high aptitude in this area of abstract reasoning; they naturally see systems and processes as a whole, and identify connections and relationships between various parts and groups of users.This trait helps bring clarity and consistency to the design of the user’s experience. It also helps the UX team foresee potential problems and areas of confusion and address them proactively. And, interestingly, abstract reasoning seems to play a big role in a UX designer’s ability to successfully balance needs and goals between multiple user groups and the business itself.In the UX world we hear a lot about empathy and walking a mile in your user’s shoes. This is the user-centric concept that drives us to do the important work of creating user personas, customer journeys, and empathy maps. And its why we do things like focus groups, user test sessions and emotional response tests. When your job is to design a specific experience for a specific user, understanding what that user thinks is kind of important!Its also important to be able to understand and empathize with Amazingly talented graphic designers who are interested in expressing themselves and want to build a portfolio of amazing-looking work typically make for frustrated UX designers. Graphic design only accounts for 25–30% of the work of a typical UX designer. And, while there is a lot of room for the graphics to look great, in UX the This is because great UX has a data-driven aesthetic. Its about making design decisions that communicate and lead toward a desired outcome. Great UX designers have a mindset that says, “My personal design style and preferences don’t matter nearly as much as what my Having the attributes above won’t translate into a successful career in UX design on their own. The key to building a strong career is the ability to successfully apply these attributes in a business setting. At the end of the day UX design is not art or entertainment, it’s a business skill.While the UX design process is all about the user, it does not Please consider this list just one man’s philosophy on UX design, rather than hard and fast rules that are required for success. If UX Design is a career you’re legitimately interested in and passionate about don’t let me (or anyone else) stop you from pursuing it. The world needs more great UX-minded people!If you have a question or if I can help you, feel free to Happy designing!Robert Solberg is a professional UX Designer and writer who lives in Nashville, TN. His personal website can be found at roso.co.

Great UX, great app! Good work!Product Guy. I have a strong passion for Product Management  UX. PM @ Office 365 SharePoint NextGen Portals Dev Platform.

I’m seemingly always in a hurry. This conversation with a Macbook Pro made me realize how wasteful that has been. I’m recovering well now I think.Me: I’d like to write a quick e-mail. My engineers are waiting on something and I only have a minute.Macbook: …..Me: Did you hear me? I said just one email. I’ll be quick, and then you can finish whatever you’re doing.Macbook: I thought you heard me the first time.Me: You didn’t say anything.Macbook: Exactly.Me: Look, this is a new relationship. I’ve been on a Windows OS since the beginning of time it seems.Macbook: Yes, I can tell.Me: Look, I’ll admit I was looking for more, and I still think you’re the one for me. But I do miss the hustle of Windows.Macbook: You mean how it says it’s trying to fix something that’s not responding.Me: Yes. I liked that, because it only took a couple seconds usually. Here I’m still waiting for you and it’s been awhile. I have no idea the status of us because you never say what’s happening behind the keyboard.Macbook: …..Me: Hold on.Me: Ok, I’m back. I just got my Windows machine out of the closet, restarted it, wrote the email, and now we can talk more. Are you ready for some work?Macbook: We need to talk.Me: Already?Macbook: So when you were on the Windows machine, did it ‘hustle’ like you said it did?Me: Yes. I liked it. It made me feel like I was important to it. Like it was trying hard for me to get it right.Macbook: And do you feel more settled down now?Me: Well, no, not really. I still have lots to do.Macbook: I don’t think this is going to work.Me: You think I should move on from Apple. That you can’t make it work faster for me?Macbook: I’m not sure we want to wait for you actually.Me: You’re waiting for me? Seemed like it was the other way around.Macbook: You’ve been using Windows for so long, I don’t think you’ll be able to adapt to a relationship with Apple.Me: But I’d really like to make the changes needed to make this work out.Macbook: Ok, well, listen to yourself. You want this, you want that. You’re pretty scattered. Don’t you think waiting for the right thing is better than having the wrong thing right away?Me: Can’t I have the right thing quickly?Macbook: That’s not how it works.Me: Ok, I’m listening.Macbook: Windows is always rushing around apologizing. That hustle you see is actually a deep insecurity.Me: Well, they have a reputation for carrying some baggage.Macbook: And how about us.Me: Well, they say that on Apple products, things just work.Macbook: But you don’t believe it’s working. You don’t think we have something bigger in mind than just letting you write an email.Me: I hadn’t thought of it that way.Macbook: Through the appearance of nothing, Apple is letting you know that Steve Jobs himself is right there in your computer making sure every pixel is just right. That takes time. So does Zen Enlightenment. You don’t just have it right now and then get back to the daily grind.Me: I see.Macbook: So can we come to an understanding.Me: I’d like to, yes.Macbook: We’ll be patient while you learn to investigate the real problem here.Me: What’s that?Macbook: Do I really need to say it?Me: No. I know it’s me. It’s something I’ve needed to work on for a very long time. I’ll keep trying.Macbook: Ok, please do that.Me: I appreciate you giving me another chance, and please tell me if I get too impatient again.Macbook: Again, it’s not about your impatience. It’s not about you at all. It’s about Apple making the world better all around.Me: Right. Sorry, it’s going to take me awhile to even get the language right on this.Macbook: Here’s the last question for you. Did you receive a reply back from your engineer yet.Me: Not yet. It’s only been 10 minutes.Macbook: So?Me: I understand. My hurry was not that important after all.Macbook: Right. Your need to scurry about is your emergency, not ours.Me: Thank you for teaching me this.Macbook: You’re welcome. And now, I am ready for you to type another email. Maybe you’d like to retype that one you just sent with a better understanding of how this all works.Me: I’d like that. Again, thank you.Macbook: You’re welcome. That’s the Apple Way.Founder and CEO of 

Falava-se muito em campanhas pontuais, com inicio e fim determinados, temática bem definida e objetivos amplamente alinhados com os direcionamentos de negócios das empresas, ao contratar as chamadas “agências criativas”.Hoje, para se manter vivos, os mais diversos negócios tem ouvido amplamente as necessidades de seus clientes, e a partir daí sim, definindo suas estratégias de marketing e principalmente: criando e melhorando seus produtos e serviços.E mais: Percebe-se que esse processo é um ciclo vitalício para o negócio, pois é obvio que mediante os desafios econômicos atuais, não se faz sustentável, criar algo que não será necessário para o consumidor final.Logo, facilmente se detecta uma nova cultura, antes somente vista em raras empresas de sucesso capital: A busca incessante por pesquisar o que o cliente precisa. Em outras palavras, buscar seus problemas e criar suas soluções.E daí entra o papel do UX. O User Experience, ou em português, experiência do usuário, centra nas vivências do consumidor do serviço ou do produto, o que se pretende vender.E para atingir tal seletividade, no mínimo, temos que buscar estar no lugar desses indivíduos.Voltando ao assunto de evolução do Modelo de Negócios e resumindo até aqui o abordado, antes, as agências eram solicitadas para resolver uma situação pontual. Passada a situação, a agência deveria buscar novas fontes de renda, novos clientes ou novos Jobs.Hoje se espera ter novos resultados, pois o foco está em entender o consumidor em cada passo, criar métricas que possam medir de maneira eficaz o quanto aquele consumo afetou a sua vida e sentimentos de maneira positiva, marcando, aí sim, de maneira atemporal o indivíduo.E como vender isso? Que tipo de profissionais eu precisarei ter em minha agência para entregar esse valor ao meu cliente? Como fazer com que os meus serviços sejam requisitados praticamente todo o tempo, de maneira sustentável e deixando eu (agência) e meu clientes satisfeitos com os negócios?Fotografia por Gerente de desenvolvimento, Gerente de projetos, Desenvolvedor Sênior PHP, Webdesigner

Многие цифровые продукты провалились. Часто я слышу фразы «этим же невозможно пользоваться», «что произошло», «почему так». Некоторые люди винят себя. Кто-то просит о помощи. Кто-то молчит и переживает негативный опыт внутри. Это все неправильно. Пользователи не должны страдать.Многие цифровые продукты провалились, но не все обречены на провал. Есть возможность поступить правильно — заметно улучшить UX-дизайн.Чтобы у всех сложилось правильное представление о UX и UX-дизайне, дам общие определения.Многие дизайнеры имеют хорошую технику: они создают действительно впечатляющие по качеству и графике работы. Но эти же люди могут быть абсолютно провальны в понимании контекста бизнеса. Это особенно заметно, когда появляется новая тенденция — плоский дизайн, тень в 45 градусов, инфографика — и ее используют везде. Так часто сайты банков, нефтехемических заводов, бизнес-инкубаторов превращаются в сайты хипстерских лофт заведений. Работают ли такие решения на целевую аудиторию? Нет.Стиль дизайна должен на 100% совпадать с бренд-сообщением компании и вызывать правильные ассоциации — иначе говоря, быть уместным.Можно многое сказать с помощью графики, но точнее текста ничего нет. Увы, часто в компаниях разработки цифровых продуктов нет контент-стратега или копирайтера. Нет человека, который мог бы из обилия бессвязной информация создать сильную систему аргументов. Все говорят «контент король», но тексты пишет дизайнер или менеджер проектов.Представьте, вы хотите организовать утренник для класса своего ребенка. На сайте одной из компаний вам попадается текст «Организация высокоэффективного детского утренника. Стабильно 89% довольных участников праздника. Низкий показатель отката классной руководительнице». Ситуация вымышленная и преувеличенная. Но сколько раз вы читали роботизированные, безликие и несоответствующие тематике тексты? Думаю, много.Если вы хотите не просто разместить текст где-то и зачем-то, а убедить потенциального клиента в своей ценности — займитесь текстами и пишите их уместными.Часто дизайнеры занимаются навигацией. Бывает, что навигацию создает менеджер проектов. Все вроде не так плохо, но, по правде говоря, все так плохо.Периодически на сайтах или в программном обеспечении невозможно найти нужную информацию. Потребность назойливо не покидает мысли, а в этот момент интерфейс только мешает. Знакомая ситуация?Представим. Вы хотите купить пару обуви в интернет-магазине. Легко пользоваться каталогом, кнопка «Купить» на видном месте, скидки заставляют забыть о рациональности — все, как нужно. На минуту вы задумываетесь «а можно ли оплатить товар при получении?». Вы идете в раздел «Оплата» и видите короткий текст «Мы принимаем Master Card, Visa». Вы идете искать ответы в «Корзине», но там вас просят заполнить 10 полей личных данных перед переходом на следующий этап. Нет никаикх гарантий, что дальше вы найдете ответ на свой вопрос. И такие ситуации бывают часто.Хороший опыт взаимодействия обеспечивает свободный доступ к информации. Совет простой: не прячьте то, что может быть интересно пользователям.Фразы часто бывают запутаны. Их можно читать и перечитывать, и все равно не понимать. Информация может быть неоднозначной и недоступной для понимания. Нужна ли вам каша в голове покупателей? Сомневаюсь.Избегайте текстов, которые приводят пользователей к замешательству и неправильным ожиданиям. Пусть эти люди точно понимают, что вы предлагаете.Не забывайте, что пользователи — живые люди. Они с трудом могут понять ваши сообщения, если устали.Представьте. Конец рабочего дня, болит голова, сейчас вы думаете «лишь бы добраться до дивана». Но уведомление на телефоне говорит «Заказать билеты на завтрашний сеанс». Вы достаете планшет и через приложение собираетесь оформить бронь. Вместо простой кнопки «Забронировать» вам предлагают оценить фильм, прочитать 50 рецензий, кликнуть на 10 эпилептических баннеров — и ко всему прочему все в одном экране. И пока вы смотрите в шоке на это безумие, выскакивает баннер «Подпишитесь на новости». Лучший выход из ситуации — решить завтра пойти в кафе.Лучшее решение для UX-дизайнера — прекратить вываливать информационную свалку на голову пользователя и не слушать безумных маркетологов. Правильнее сделать легкий интерфейс, структурировать информацию и не пытаться запихнуть все в один экран.Любая цель должна достигаться просто. Я хочу заказать кофе на сайте — я должен сделать это прямиком с главной страницы. Я не готов сразу заказать кофе, а хочу перед принятием решения почитать о нем подробнее — я должен в один клик перейти к тексту. Может быть я не хочу заполнять 10 полей личных данных, чтобы заказать эспрессо-машину — в обычном магазине меня же об этом не попросят.Есть цель — к ней должен быть путь, и на этом пути пользователь не должен растерять свое желание совершить действие.Так или иначе цифровая среда навязывает нам определенные ожидания поведения системы. Нажали на ссылку — ушли в раздел. Нажали на кнопку — совершили какое-то действие. Но поведение системы не всегда бывает очевидным.Вот пример. Вы хотите оформить путевку в другую страну. Предвкушаете отдых, заполняете данные, выбираете параметры поиска, нажимаете «проверить наличие». И на этом все. Ничего не происходит. Отсутствие какого-то незначительно элемента — в данном случае предзагрузчика — заставляет чувствовать глупо. Можно подумать «я что-то не заполнил», а можно подумать «система глупая». Вывод будет один — вы уйдете с этого сайта.Ну а пока вы уходите в мыслях с этого сайта, подумайте о своих пользователях. Они покинут вас в реальном мире, а не в вымышленном. Если вы конечно не подумаете заранее об очевидности поведения системы.Пользователям свойственно определенное мировоззрение, ценности и методы принятия решений. Все люди разные, но при этом в каждом вы сможете найти что-то общее. На всех что-то объединяет и сплачивает. Почему бы не понять что именно и не сплотить людей вокруг определенной компании, продукта, сервиса или услуги?Главный совет при учете человеческих парадигм — занимайтесь этим и не жалейте времени. Результаты вас действительно смогут поразить.Пользователи могут запутаться, заблудиться, пойти не туда, ошибиться. В каждой точке, где это происходит, вы должны быть рядом: с помощью текстов, интерфейсных подсказок, формы обратной связи, телефона и т.д.Пользователь не может выставить оценку товару, напишите «Дружище, тебе нужно сперва авторизоваться. Если ты не зарегистрирован, тебе сюда. Регистрируйся смело, мы не передаем данные третьим лицам». Чем больше будет заботы, тем скорее человек отдаст предпочтение вашей уютной системе, нежели бездушной системе конкурентов.В теме указаны не всевозможные критерии. Но если вы учли уместность решений, сделали информацию доступной, достижение целей простым, система ведет себе предсказуемо, вы были ориентированы на человеческое парадигмы и заботливы — вы уже способны создать успешный цифровой продукт.Удачи в улучшении цифрового мира.UI/UX Designer. Увлечен типографикой, геометрическими формами и минимализмом.

As designers I like to think we challenge conventional thinking. This is a collection of some simple strategies that have helped me become a better designer over the past few years.Don’t just get a good notebook but write actually write things down. Even with all of the apps out there I haven’t found a better way to keep notes and sketches in one place. Taking notes in a notebook keeps you in focus and helps eliminate distractions. I have actually stopped bringing my laptop to feature presentations. One of the most useful things for me, is to write down the reasons behind my design decisions. Often times when working on 4 or 5 product features I find myself looking over designs, trying to remember the reasoning. I really love to use How do you know your design is right? Well sometimes you just don’t. You have designer’s intuition and a sense that it looks and feels right but you only know for sure once its out in the wild. You can however, get a really really good idea from talking to people. Find out who your users are, what they are like, what they do, what they don’t do, what they hate, what sucks… get my point? Talk to them and you will begin to get a clear picture of what they need. Data and analytics can get you there part of the way and help support your hypothesis but actually talking to real people will take you the rest of the way. It will truly help guide you down the right path to designing a product your users love. Asking the rights questions is an art, If you’re interested I recommend picking up “Build a prototype. There are some awesome tools out there for building quick workable prototypes and you really have no excuses not to do it. Check out Don’t be afraid to ask questions, no matter how stupid they may seem. As designers, I like to think we challenge conventional thinking. We have to ask the why and how. Get to the bottom of what you are trying to solve, try to understand the underlying motivators or drivers for what you are doing. At the very least you will expand your own knowledge and maybe even get the speaker to think through their reasoning. I have been in many meetings where seeminly small questions have led to big ideas and even a pivot in a design. It’s always better to ask and know then to assume, that’s how gaps in your feature or product form, and then you try to fill them with patchwork.Sometimes you just have to start fresh. Its difficult to clear your mind especially when working on one product or feature for a while. Build on concepts you already have and try to look at the problem from a different angle. There have been times where I felt like my design was functionally “done” but something didn’t feel right. Iterating on my design eventually led me to a solution that just felt right and when we tested it with users we knew we had it.UX/UI Designer at Achievers

The underline is one of the oldest, simplest and most widely understood conventions of the web. Tim Berners-Lee back in 1991 said that for the reader ‘Despite its simplicity, the underline has great potential as it improves the usability of websites by grabbing the user’s attention. Simple as that? Not exactly. The web evolved, got more and more complicated, and its grassroots didn’t remain untouched for long. With the expansion of Internet devices and hype about user experience (UX) design — which adds so much more to ‘bare’ usability — even such a fundamental of the web started to shake. In this post we’ll analyze the potential of the underline, and how it can strongly influence — in a positive or negative way — User Experience and usability in your website.So let’s start with the basics: what is the underline? It is a “When we talk about typography in printed documents, we all pretty much know that a major rule of thumb is But the web is a different communication channel and, as such, therefore portrays the underline in a different way. Across the web, a line under words indicates that if you click on them, you will be taken to a corresponding resource. Historically, it has been associated with the color blue, for a purely technical reason: it was easy to implement as blue was the darkest of the colors available.However, things on the web move really fast and everything is constantly changing. Last year, an internet giant The rise of minimalism in UX design did the rest. Big white spaces and clean pages that didn’t allow for the underline below the relevant words. Therefore, the use of the underline on the web started to drop, much to the disdain of usability experts.Should we all say goodbye to the underline? Not just yet. We’re talking about the giant of the web, the We would all agree that we cannot say the same of a more or less average website page. While some links may be appear clear from the context, like First of all, links shouldn’t be abused. Web users don’t always read, often skimming and only reading boldface and underlined links. This means that the underline often assumes both the functions of highlighting and hyperlinking. This is why we cannot fill a text with links. It’s unsightly from an aesthetic point of view, and it’s useless from a readability standpoint. The results of an interesting study confirm that Our advice: use them with care, kindness and understanding (common sense). Think about how they’re spread out within the text, and how long they are. Nielsen gives us useful advice on how to use the underline, and it’s definitely If your UX design principles just don’t work with the underline, then don’t use it–but don’t forget its main purpose, i.e. to inform the user of a link in the text. How do you do this without the underline, and keep the website user-friendly and accessible to everyone? As Nielsen says, “Another important consideration is with regard to mobile devices and other touch-based UIs, where it’s even more important to correctly visualize links. Let’s think about two different links side by side: it could be hard to differentiate them on a computer screen, but users can still hover on the link to confirm, and recognize the style change after hovering. However, if they are using a mobile device, which lacks hover functionality, they are more likely to miss them. So, is it really worth ditching the underline? The fact that they can lower readability and could be (but are not necessarily) unattractive, is probably outweighed by the positive effect on usability.So that’s our food for thought. Regardless of what your own priorities are, don’t forget that The best platform to define web and mobile apps with rich interactive wireframes 

The evolution of mankind and the cognition within, is exemplified by the discoveries, theories and inventions made in a variety of subjects since the origin of mankind itself. It was when early humans started Ergonomics or human factor(s) has its roots within the context of ancient Greek culture, as the Greek civilization designed their tools, jobs, and workplaces understanding the human interactions with other elements of a system. Hence, it became a principle of The philosophy of ‘Scientific Management’ by Frederick Winslow Taylor concentrated making people more efficient and routinized in the industry, also, he believe that only routinizing people was not sufficient and that optimizing the way a work is done will help achieve even more. Taylor’s theory  research became one of the early and primary works regarding efficiency of worker-tools’ interactions.It was Alan Turing who came up with the idea of what can be called as an ‘all-in-one’ computing machine, which was a transition from a machine being dedicated to one task into a machine that could be given a number of discrete tasks to be performed.Turing’s work led to a whole new world of computer science and it was exemplified by Toyota Production System (TPS), an integrated The excerpt from the american industrial designer’s classic text ‘Designing for People’ highlights the early connection between people, their experience and designing for them, that was introduced back then and became one of the milestones of User Experience Design. Dreyfuss always put himself in shoes of the audience and then designed his products and this concept gave birth to concept of delight.In 1970s, Xerox a research center of PARC, marked a paradigm shift when it came up with graphical user interface — GUI, the mouse, and computer-generated bitmap graphics. One of the game changers was the The The realization and popularization of HCI led to other important concepts like Dr. Nielsen, a user advocate, established the “discount usability engineering” movement and invented several usability methods, one being heuristic evaluation.Despite that the basic applications and guidelines for the Internet were existent for almost a decade, the internet did not get popularized until the 1990s. It was CERN which publicized the World Wide Web project (Web was invented by an English scientist Tim Berners-Lee in 1989). By 1996 the word “Internet” was used so widely that it started to be used as a reference to the World Wide Web.It wasn’t very long when the Web gave rise to Web master (web architect, developer, site author, administrator etc.), User interface and Information architecture and each became a dynamic and powerful fields within themselves.Personalities like Alan Cooper and Jared Spool were of the major contributors then to the sea of design methods and users. Where Cooper worked on designing software applications to be more user-friendly by interviewing them, giving birth to the use of The term ‘User Experience’ was coined by Donald Norman in 1995, a user experience architect at Apple. The term was to describe the wide range of activities that his team was engaged in at Apple Computers. Soon the term started to get career on its own and today is extremely well recognized.Mobile technologies have tremendously transformed our conduct of life, marking a radical explosion in technological innovation and economic growth worldwide. Networks being one of the primary players in promoting the mobile revolution introduced 3G and 4G and made mobile a place for media consumption be it social networking, video viewing, reading, or using maps to trace your location.In 2007, the cell phone market received a cultural shock when the iPhone took the enterprise IT market to an amazing level. iPhone started a whole division of the mobile revolution with commercialization. The iPhone can be seen as the initial strong hand held device solving operating and functionalities problems.The iPhone, overtime, inspired markets and changed the dynamics of design, interface and experience.While user experience is grounded to the idea of designing for the people, no matter if the experience is being delivered by actual human or a machine, and also that future does hold possibilities of a machine that thinks and learns for itself, how will References:Background of computer science and project management, and now a student at University of Waterloo (MDEI) to explore the Digital world.Digital Experience Innovation

WIntrepid’s current clientele is “gap” year or younger travelers in their mid twenties. However, through market research, Intrepid identified that there is a huge market for an older demographic. They will be creating a new offering of “comfort” trips designed to appeal to this demographic and seek to upgrade their digital experience for this new product offering. Intrepid has been getting feedback from travel agents and potential customers that it is difficult to search for trips on their site. One of the biggest problems is that customers want to be able to choose destinations based on their vacation time availability.Responsive website that works well with iPad and/or iPhone application.Two weeks.Before tackling the challenge at hand, the first step was establishing a team manifesto. A manifesto would ensure a strong foundation and define a strategy to help us reach the given goal. We also created a timetable for reference to make sure we keep to schedule. Finally, we divided up the different parts of the project where members of the team would take ownership of certain aspects. We obviously still aimed to work collaboratively as a team for the entire project, but having members responsible for certain portions allowed us to move leaner and more efficiently.Since I am pretty confident of my prototyping and design skills from the last two projects, I volunteered to lead and own the user flow, design, and the prototyping portions. I would ensure that the finished product was consistent with our research and overall design.Pen/pencil+paper, whiteboards, Google Forms, Axure, Sketch, myBalsamiq, OmniGraffle, PowerpointWe started the project creating a survey as the initial point to compile data on travel habits (how travelers planned, their travel preferences, how they book their tickets, etc).We then narrowed down the demographic we wanted to focus on as we weren’t provided with a specific one. Since the brief mentioned “older demographic” — we assumed it meant 50+. Agreeing on the demographic as a team, we pulled existing data from various sources (From the survey and data points we pulled, we compiled the information to build out our persona. We knew that we had to focus on the two main pain points presented to us from the brief as well —out customers needed (1) an easy way to In our final step, we reached out to some of our survey respondents that fit the demographic to understand some additional in-depth details before finalizing the persona. Below was the result of our research.Barry and his wife, Patricia, are celebrating their 40th anniversary. They both love to travel. However, the last few trips they planned themselves were disappointing and stressful having to figure out the itinerary on their own. To avoid the headache that came with planning their last trips, Barry and Patricia decided to try Intrepid Travel, which was recommended to them by a travel buddy. They are looking for a nice week-long Italian coastal getaway in April 2016.With an understanding of our persona and their needs, we shifted gears to site research, comparing Intrepid’s process with other competitors including Some of the biggest flaws we saw from Intrepid’s site was the convoluted steps it took to book a trip. The filtering tool was difficult to navigate and manage, littered with too many options. The checkout process was unfriendly and required too many unnecessary steps. The site’s information were also laid out in poor manner. Intrepid already offers To confirm our findings, we conducted additional interviews and had users venture into the Intrepid website. Giving them the task of booking a trip to Italy with a specific date in mind, most had trouble navigating through it. They had difficulties accessing information on Digging deeper with further research on the sites, we included a quick comparative analysis against Intrepid’s competitors to see what each travel site offered.Mapping out the user flows and journeys, we started with the current flow on how a traveler would book their trip.Searching for a trip from the home page allows you to only search by destination, duration, and time (dates). From our research, we noticed most users scrolling right past the different trip styles as they were located near the bottom and looked too similar to Intrepid’s We brainstormed on how to create a better flow. The easiest fix to alleviate one of the pain points would be to move information around. I wanted to put emphasis on the different trip styles so the traveler could instantly access and learn more about them right from the home page. This would affect the user flow by having the user venture into the Because of who our user was (Barry), we felt that he would want to read as much as he could about “comfortWe also planned on creating two new features as Barry would like more customizable options on the trip and prefers not to travel in groups with strangers. We knew this would result in Intrepid having to offer new products and tweak their business offerings. However, since its a mock project, we were allowed to think outside the box.The two new features would be:For good measure, we also wanted to include a feature at the very end (post-confirmation screen) assisting travelers with their airline ticket booking needs.I worked out the initial sketches for the redesigned site along with my teammates. We wanted to highlight the most important features our user would care about while at the same time keep the feel and branding of Intrepid. We had great ideas during our brainstorm sessions but kept grounded considering we were building a responsive website. It needed to look and feel like a website, only slightly smaller as we were creating it for the iPad screen.The most difficult screen to design was the With some brief user testing of the different iterations, we decided to go with a page scrolling straight down touching on the different sections as it seemed to be the least confusing.We opted for an accordion style menu for the itinerary section as it would save space and hide any information the user did not wish to see. A symbol would designate if there was a customizable add-on for that particular date The user would then be able to choose to expand to view.Armed with an idea of how we wanted the site to look, we started working on the wireframes to get a better visual sense and give testers something to click through. Feel free to access our low-fi prototype We learned a lot from the clickable user testing in terms of button placements and how information should be laid out as they ventured through the lo-fi wireframes. Taking their feedback into account, we iterated the wireframes even further before we tackled with the hi-fidelity prototype.Reaching a consensus as a team on how the final version of the redesigned site should look, I started working on the hi-fi version using Please feel free to access the final prototype here: As you can see in the leftmost image depicting the homepage, the user is now able to instantly see the various travel styles Intrepid offers. One major redesign we also decided to implement across Intrepid’s pages were larger hero images. We wanted high-quality images capturing the amazing destinations to inspire that wanderlust lifestyle.We stayed consistent with the hero images all the way to the We also shortened the checkout process as well. After reviewing the itinerary with an itemized list of the trip and any add-ons, the user is directed to the Group work definitely added a new element to the project. I thoroughly enjoyed working with my teammates and ideas flowed non-stop. The back and forth ideation played an integral part formulating our solution. Since I’ve worked on many teams in the past throughout my career, I treated this task no differently — as we were all working towards the same goal.A Thanks for reading.I like to make nice things and make things nice.

I figured out my passion with new technologies when I was very young, in a small town in the country side of Brazil where I grew up. I started a course in Introduction to Computers (MD-OS, Windows and office) at the only computer school in that region. In just a few months I found myself in my first job as instructor of new students. At that time I was only a 14 years old farm boy, introducing other teenagers and adults to this whole new thing, and believe me, I was very well respected. That experience changed my life forever. I was 16 years old and I was invited to be co-owner of a computer school in my home town. 2 years later I ended up moving to the capital of my country to start my colleague in computer science.My relationship with User Experience (UX) popped into my career since the very first beginning. During my graduation I spent my first years at TATA and Accenture working with quality assurance (QA) of CRM tools. Interestingly, I always found a strong two way relationship between QA and UX. At the same time that UX has an impact in the quality measure for design, a good UX requires QA thinking.After 7 years of a solid career leading teams in CRM Software QA, I decided to start down the path of entrepreneurship. That was a tough decision to put my career in IT on hold and start a business from scratch. I atended EMPRETEC, a United Nations program that aims to promote the creation of sustainable, innovative, and internationally competitive small- and mid-sized enterprises. After months of hard work and intensive learning I had my business plan ready to open a restaurant in a large shopping mall with a mission to offer a cozy environment to my customers. Huge learnings on how to run my own business, how to listen to the customers inputs, moreover, I learned how design is holistically present on the entire customer experience and how design can actually improve the experience itself.At a certain point I got a good proposal to sell the business and at the same time something very interesting happen to me. I was invited to join the Digital Innovation department of TELEFONICA, a global Spanish telecom company located in Sao Paulo. It was my chance to merge my skills and join such a dynamic and collaborative team providing inputs that would allow improvement of software. I was involved in the development of new products that would support Startups, Media Services, Internet of Things and Health Care solutions. Sharing learnings with this team was quite enriching, I enjoyed being involved in the entire process of a new product creation from the beginning to the launching.Last year I moved to the USA to join my husband in his dream. He had an excellent job opportunity to work in drug development at the headquarters of global pharmaceutical company in Princeton. I took a sabbatical year to learn English and to emerge in another culture, pretty diverse and international, which was incredibly rewarding. Recently I came across General Assembly. I’m thrilled to start this new phase of my life, certain that will allow me to become a better designer and I’m looking forward to exchange experiences with my classmates.

Когда уже сайтостроители (и заказчики) поймут, что им в команде разработчиков нужен не только дизайнер, но еще и архитектор сайта?Наглядный пример — сайт “инвестируй в Грузию” (Есть на сайте инструмент сравнения другой страны с Грузией в плане инвестиционного климата. Нажимаешь на “простоту бизнеса” и что видим? Грузия на 15 месте.Что лучше чем в Грузии, бизнес открывать только в 14 других странах из 189. То есть Грузия — просто великолепное место для бизнеса.Есть шкала из 100 возможных очков и Грузия набрала только 15 из них. То есть бизнес в Грузии развит только на 15%?Или вот, например, характеристика получения кредита:Тут мы видим число 7 у Грузии.Что такое семь? Семь процентов? Семь дней? Семь процедур?Экономисты знают, что у World Bank, на основании отчета которого и стоится все это сравнение — есть ряд характеристик которые они объединяют под одним общим ранком “Getting Credit”:Знают ли об этом рядовые посетители сайта “Invest In Georgia”? Сомневаюсь.В любом случае, объяснение методологии — обычная практика во всем мире, почему где-то на просторах огромного графика или внизу под ним — не объяснить, что вобще имеется ввиду в данном показателе. В таком виде он как информация — потерян. Просто галочка, что он есть.Я просто оставлю этот список с “минусами” в их миссии и штришочками под каждым пунктом здесь. Разницу в пробелах и высоте пунктов предоставляю оценить вам:И, кстати, на одной и той же странце блоки текста “о нас” “миссия” и “наши услуги”. Так вот, шрифт у “миссия” — мельче. Ну и правда, кому она нужна, миссия эта:Ссылка на “нашу команду” (квадратик в центре “our team”) выглядит вот так. Прекрасная компоновка?Она же при 100%:При 130%. Responsive design во всей красе?Весь сайт такой чистенький и светлый и вдруг бабах! — на одной из страниц находим ЭТО. Пожалейте мои глаза!Я уже молчу что на каждой сранице дикая мешанина из шрифтов и их размеров.Сайт с Айпада так и не загрузился. Висел 24 минуты в режиме ожидания загрузки, потом я его закрыла.Это твиттер агентства Invest in Georgia. называют себя “one stop shop for investors” — “одно окно для инвесторов”.Во первых, что это за логотип? Во вторых, почему на английском? Если да инвесторов, то их грузино-говорящих мало, и они сто процентов не пользуются твиттером. В Грузии вобще никто не пользуется твиттером?А вот вам FB страница. 80% новостей — на Грузинском. Так они с инвесторами работают? Или внутри страны пиарятся? И то и другое важно, но нужно же разделить потоки! Писать тогда в двух аккаунтах. Потому что в том сухом виде официальных новостей самих грузин такой контенет не интересует (еще бы, агентство работает с 2002 года, а подписчиков на странице в фейсбуке всего три тысячи). С другой стороны, инвесторов, которые были бы рады следить за новостями в стране и инвестиционным климатом — о них никто не думает (новости то в большинстве своем на грузинском). Поэтому иностранцы страницу тоже не жалуют.На сайте агентства есть ссылка на LinkedIn. И знаете что,У агентства есть “опыт работы” и 158 “коллег и сослуживцев”.Нет, я серьезно:А вот ссылка с сайта Агентства на этот профиль:Ради справедливости стоит отметить, что на Youtube канале агентства много видео (около 20). Есть даже видео с десятком тысяч просмотров. Однако, все они, кроме одного — очень старые и сделаны 3 года назад. А то самое, которое более новое — сделано год назад. Зачем что-то новое размещать на канале национального агентства? На канал подписаны аж 350 человек:Логичный вопрос:Я искренне надеюсь, что гос. службы Грузии поймут важность профессионального подхода к пиару в сети Интернет и будут более ответственно относиться к выбору подрядчиков для создания интернет страниц и работы в социальных сетях.Тренер по инновационному мышлению | my english profile is medium.com/@kasya

I coded my first HTML website in 1995. I was working as a visual interface designer for a research arm of Northwestern University focused on highly complex CD-Rom training software involving complex cognitive theories. The “internet” was new and everyone was excited, but completely ignorant of what it would truly become for mass audiences.Undefined at the time, my role as that interface designer involved many aspects of what we now call User Experience Design, or UX. As my role evolved and grew into a UX focus over the years, I’ve had the privilege of working with countless smart individuals in the field of UX across many disciplines.What I’ve come to define for myself after 20 years in the field are 3 types of UX professionals. These are based on my personal experiences and may or may not resonate with you.I strongly identify with the UX Negotiator group. My career path evolved from that of a visual designer. My curiosity led me to experiment and learn new ways of creating for the internet and communicating those ideas to clients. Someone else always did the code work. In today’s world, we now see a blending of skills between UX and coders and it’s a decision for us older Negotiators to learn code or not.Do you identify with one of these groups? Have you identified other groups not mentioned here?Photographer and Social Communications Consultant helping micro businesses succeed. Mixing art + technology to create new experiences every day.

At the height of Beatle-mania John Lennon was asked whether Ringo Starr was the best drummer alive.He responded, “no”.“He’s not even the best drummer in the Beatles”.Chances are, your UXer is Ringo Starr — not even the best UXer in your project team.Even though they probably think they’re John fucking Lennon.Well here’s something to imagine.Your site’s content is vital to the user’s experience. And content, as a discipline, gets this.When you get it right, users keep coming back for more.When it’s not, it’s more useless than a lifejacket made of bricks.Most UXers, whose job it is to create this utopian experience, fail to consider the content.There are too many of these SHUX (shit UX) professionals who don’t value it in the design process.Only the good ones realise that content is inseparable from experience. And the lines between the two are blurred, like your vision after 12 pints.In fact, your content person could actually be doing more for your users than anyone.See, no one visits a website for the experience. They’re there for the content.And if it’s good enough they’ll be there again and again — even if the design blows.Reddit, for example. It’s uglier than arseholes and confusing for a first time user.But we keep coming back.Last month Reddit had That’s an uppercut to the nuts of design. A SHUX (yep, I’m gonna make SHUX happen) focusses too much on business needs that require user X to get from point A to point B.Users deserve better than that. We need to pay more attention to what our users are wanting out of it all.To put this into a slightly different context:Every year, National Rail boast about the percentage of trains that reach the terminus on time.SHUX loves this. It’s a yummy soundbite to justify their work in the next presentation.Yet every week, there are people on Twitter calling the social media intern at National Rail a cunt due to poor service.Luckily for National Rail, most people’s livelihoods depend on that tin box of farts and influenza twice a day. So they can’t afford to forget it.However, if it’s your shitty website and they’re not being served up the right content, they’ll ditch it faster than you can say “see you next Tuesday”. But first, they’ll tell their friends.In retail, the customer is always right. On the web, the user is always right.So when you design a website without considering a content strategy, you run a real risk of pissing off the people that matter most.So, think…And consider your typical digital agency disciplines: design, UX, front end dev, back end dev, project management — and if you’re lucky, content.Include content in your team and you’ve got The Beatles, maybe the world’s most famous band of all time.Exclude content and you’ve got Wings, maybe Alan Partridge’s best joke.Oh and in case you missed it, An angry, sweary attempt to make you take digital content seriously

A few weeks ago I was invited to speak with General Assembly’s UXDI Immersive course. I was thrilled to meet a whole cohort of new UXers who are excited to begin their careers in this field.The students threw a ton of questions at me (great researchers already!). One question in particular stood out to me because it’s something I think about almost every day in my work.Early on in my UX training, a mentor I admire very much gave me valuable guidance that I think about during each project: Every insight you ever share with your stakeholders — every presentation, every slide, and every finding — should answer 3 basic questions: What? So What? Now What?What did you hear, see, and learn from users? How did they respond and react to the designs or concepts? This is what typically comes to mind for most people when they think about what they’ll learn in UX or usability research.But here’s the trick — the “what” you’ve learned is just the beginning, and good insights go far beyond this. If your findings stop after just saying the “what”, you haven’t done your job of guiding a team to understand any product changes you may propose.Here’s an example of a During the account registration process for new Product X, users could not clearly understand the differences between the two service options presented.Let me ask you a question — If I’m leading a product team and receiving these insights, why does this finding matter to me?Sure, I realize the descriptions we have listed for our service options may be text-heavy and a bit unwieldy, but I’ve got plenty of other things to focus on. And changing those descriptions is hard — it would require me to get signoff from my internal stakeholders. Why should I prioritize fixing this issue, over everything else on my plate?In order for you, the researcher, to demonstrate why this finding is important, you need to connect this insight back to how it affects the business (the “so what”). This should tie back to business or product goals and metrics, which may be either broadly or narrowly defined. Some examples are: increased uptake of a new tool, increase in conversions or sales, increased ability to complete a flow, improved brand perceptions, and so on.Here’s an example of a Because users did not clearly understand the differences between service options, many were hesitant to move forward in the registration process as they were afraid to make the wrong choice. As such, half of users abandoned the registration process at this point.Well, now you’ve caught the product team’s attention. If users leave the registration process, that means fewer user sign-ups, which affects the bottom line. They’re trying to get at least 1,000 new sign-ups this month, so now they realize why they need to fix this issue.Put yourself, again, in the shoes of the product team: Now that you’ve given me this information, what am I supposed to do with it? How can I fix this issue?Hopefully, your research has dug into ideas that can provide a potential solution to this issue. In the example from above, what specifically are confused about when given these two options? What information do they need to feel comfortable in making a selection?Maybe the When requiring users to make a selection, clearly highlight the differences in fees, service offerings, and level of customer service support associated with each service option. Advise users they’ll have an option to go back later and change their selection if needed.Wherever you can, aim to give your product team clear and actionable recommendations they can consider. Talk with the team so you have a clear understanding of what constraints they’re working under (if any) so that your recommendations account for those constraints.So there you have it. Pushing research beyond thediscover // design // disrupt // 

İşin içinde Pixar olunca, bizde akan sular duruyor. Belki bazılarınız, eski Pixar’lı sanat yönetmeni Emma Coasts’ın Pixar’daki hikayeleştirme prensipleriyle ilgili seri bombardımanla, ThougthWorks’teki meslektaşlarımızdan Yazı ve image-macro’lar çok güzel öyle değil mi? (Yazıyı okumadan buraya gelen “Hee hee” diyip geçebilir.) Şimdi de yazının, tüm okuduklarımızı hazmedip bir iterasyon daha yaparak, bu 22 tane (akılda tutması çok zor) UX prensibini bizim nasıl olup da 5 ana prensipte topladığımız bölümüne geliyoruz…Burada basit bir kurala bağlı kaldık: “Kullanıcı her zaman önce gelir.” Dolayısıyla 22 prensip içerisinde kullanıcı deneyimini yaratan ekipte yer alan tasarımcılara öğütler veren bölümleri tek bir maddede toplayıp, geçtik. Sonrasında da zaten anlatması da algılanması da zor olan “kullanıcı deneyimi” prensiplerini, cümle içinde daha kolay kullanılabilir formatta tekrar düzenledik. Ortaya UX Designer’lara öğütlerden çok deneyimin tüm paydaşlarına ithaf edilen bir yol haritası çıktı. İşte başlıyoruz:UX’in altın, gümüş, nikel ve hatta titanyum kuralları da var, eminiz. Ancak bunlar Pixar esanslı olanları… Üzerinde biraz kafa patlamanın daima faydası olanlardan…Full time Family Man, Part Time Entrepreneur, IOS Patient. Founder of DAM Startup Studio. Bir tasarım stüdyosunun notları

Millennials and enterprise UXMillennials (born between 1980 and 2000) just became the largest population in the workspace.They are more connected to technology than previous generations, were born into a world of technological advance and interactwith technology like no other generation. They are extremely tech savvy and requirea different standard of enterprise experience.A wired, connected world is all that Millennials have ever known and they will demand industry to work under these trends.It’s no secret millennials love mobile, 80 percent of them sleep with their phones next to their beds (Functions that were once restricted to their job, be it their work mail accounts, calendars and even shared work spaces become common place on mobile, accessible everywhere, anytime. Experience across devices needs to become consistent and allowing. Giving users the ability to perform job tasks from their mobile devices, carry and sync information between all end points in real time. System should constantly feed relevant information simultaneously, cross devices.Enterprises have just started to scratch the potential of mobile integration in business scenarios and this trend is expected to continue even stronger in 2015.Millennials gave up on their privacy for easy to use, simple products that offer great functionality and interconnectivity. They expect similar results using enterprise software, and have little tolerance for clunky solutions.Eliminating tedious security steps to communicate or perform basic functions and switching to a more user centered security methods such as facial recognition or finger print access available on new devices, can lead to better software products that tech savvy millennials will willingly engage with and like.If enterprise software will jump on mobile to stay relevant, this will continue to be a strong trend this year.41 percent of this new generation have no landline at home and rely on their cellphones for communication (Enterprises will need to adapt to include various methods of communications within their applications, not limiting users to phone or mail only, provide expected design patterns for texting and sharing information with their colleagues. A corporate facebook, youtube and even twitter will become a more common sight in 2015.#UX designer, dad to a toddler, a gamer and a well mannered carnivore. Currently fighting for ATT, opinions are my own.

There are tons of places to learn UX online.Other Twitter accounts to follow:Productivity tool  network for freelance  fulltime designers, writers, photographers, developers, producers and those hiring them. AreYouFreeAndWilling.com

Prototype viewed I spent two weeks working on a brief for John Lewis to design a microsite for people to plan and purchase their decorating items. A recent survey discovered that participants found it difficult and time consuming to replicate styles they had seen elsewhere, so John Lewis wanted to make it easier for people to create the ‘look’ that they want for their homes. The business goal is to encourage people to spend more of their decorating budget with John Lewis.Market research identified three key personas, two of which are our secondary target audience and the third, Midori, is our primary target. Midori is the focus for this case study.Midori is a 29 year old graphic designer and is searching for a new decorating style for her apartment. She is very style-savvy and has lots of design ideas, but struggles to put her own look together. She wants advice from her friends and gets frustrated when she can’t easily save and share her ideas. She finds that she often becomes overwhelmed with choice and, when that happens, can end up leaving her project altogether and going out with her friends instead. This only makes her more frustrated and lessens her enthusiasm for decorating.I wanted to understand what the physical shopping experience was like for Midori, so I visited the John Lewis store at Westfield Stratford City in London.I noticed that many of the products were grouped together as ‘looks’ with inspirational literature placed nearby to detail every item within this look. Customers could then take this away with them if they wanted. With Midori’s problem in mind I decided that being able to experience ‘looks’ should be a key feature of the site.After the store visit, I also interviewed Laura, who is of a similar age to Midori. Like Midori, she spends a lot of time on Pinterest getting inspiration before moving onto the buying process. The two main factors for her are the look and price. She would love a room builder feature so she could put all her ideas together and see how different items would look together, as that’s how she usually shops in stores. An interesting nugget from her was that she tends to buy bigger pieces first and then accessorise around them, so being able to find items that make up a complete look is important to her.Another interviewee, Zoe, echoed something similar by saying that she will often design a room around one or two statement pieces. This is the fun part so shouldn’t be a source of frustration. Again, this confirmed to me that being able to plan a look should be the main feature of this site.I conducted a competitive analysis to see how John Lewis compares in the market. I looked at several direct competitors:And some indirect competitors who I thought were doing interesting and cool stuff, such as:I also looked at ASOS for inspiration as I really like their navigation style and how they organize a lot of information in a clear way.Some key market opportunities I found were to enable the user to shop directly from an inspirational feature or image, as this often wasn’t possible. I also wanted to make more of the wishlist/saved items functionality. I discovered that Zoe and Laura use their saved items as comparison tool and ASOS lets their users drag and drop their saved items around to get a sense of what goes with what, which I really liked.Following the task analysis I put together the user flows for a) choosing a decorating style b) the checkout process c) sharing a wishlist d) tracking items after purchase.And the user journey to clearly identify where our users’s pain points are:As an e-commerce site, there was a lot of information that needed to be included and it was crucial to ensure it was structured in a logical way. To help inform the site map, I undertook a series of closed and open card sorting exercises with participants.These exercises enabled me to develop the sitemap.At this stage in the process I had an idea of what screens I wanted to start sketching, and in order to start brainstorming different design concepts I participated in the design studio method. This was a great way of getting multiple ideas onto paper in a short space of time:Once I had a paper prototype with the key screens I started to test them. I tested with four users including Laura.After iterating the paper prototype I moved onto technical wireframes in Omnigraffle and conducted further rounds of testing with another four users.The testing as a whole revealed some interesting findings such as some confusion around getting from a ‘looks’ page to a ‘room’ page and not being able to see a preview of the looks from the landing page (buttons were subsequently replaced with large, high quality visuals so that users were not clicking through blind). The ‘design my room’ tool was received well as a concept, but needed quite a bit of re-working and several pieces of similar feedback around the saved items lead me to incorporate saved items and the room builder together. The homepage was also redesigned in a more logical order.I designed a full checkout process as it was important to me to ensure that checkout was a simple and painless experience and I made sure to include a guest checkout for those users who didn’t wish to create an account. I would like to go deeper into testing with this at a later stage.The design proposal focused on a ‘looks’ journey, pulling ideas from John Lewis’s competitors and the John Lewis store experience to provide users with inspiration and an easy way to create their own look. I wanted to create a simple navigation process for Midori to avoid her becoming overwhelmed with choice, and make it easy for her to purchase items straight from inspirational content. Once she has decided on a look she doesn’t have to spend a long time searching for complementary items, eliminating her previous frustrations. I know that feedback from her friends is important to her so it is quick and easy to share her ideas with friends.More ideas that came out of user testing include developing a social element to make sharing ideas more fun. As part of the competitive analysis I looked at made.com and discovered their Unboxed section where customers can upload their own photos and tag products they have used. This, I feel, is a great way of showing products in a real context and would be beneficial for Midori. I would also like to explore integrating the design your room tool more seamlessly into the buying process, enabling users to drag and drop products straight from the search results.UX Design student at 

Nothing is more binding than a heartbreaking love-story with a happy ending but this one is snubbed often as the protagonists are not in love with each other. So why is this a love-story? Because it is not the usual Romeo and Juliet thingy, there is a third entity involved. The User.So it is like this, UI and UX both love the User and all 3 of them are immortal, so none can die and hence this is another unending saga. Exactly like who is better between Messi and Ronaldo. I think its Ronaldo though.Okay, So UI is this crazy young lover who lives in a fantasy land. It has dreams and a lot of hope. It is pretty and sometimes cute. User will be in the awe of it, so the love at first sight cliché is normal in this context.User is a moody b#8*h. Sometimes User craves for the madness of UI and sometimes it warrants the kindness of UX. It wants them both and that’s creating all the fuss.Understanding the difference between UI and UX is pretty easy. UI is what the interface is and UX is why this interface is. They are unlike individuals from distant places but they met each other and befriended.The internet say and I quote, “A UI without UX is like a painter slapping paint onto canvas without thought; while UX without UI is like the frame of a sculpture with no paper Mache on it. A great product experience starts with UX followed by UI. Both are essential for the product’s success.”UX as I said earlier is understanding it enhances user satisfaction and loyalty by refining the utility, ease of operation provided in the communication among the customer and the product. Whereas UI is its compliment, the look and feel, the presentation and interactivity of a product.There always can’t be a rainbow after it rains, isn’t it. The problem is UI doesn’t even know that it is in a hate and hate relationship between itself and UX all because of you-know-who. Not Lord Voldermort but yes the villain in this case, the user. UX on the other hand is well aware but we do know about the ego, right?Let’s hypothetically believe for a moment that UI realizes that it is gay and it can love UX and ignore User, or the other way around. So one of them falls for another and ignores the User. What will user do? The answer is simple, put both of them in the friend-zone. One for surety of it and another for the doubt and yet another for keeping itself out of the mess.Which banner has to be made and where do we put it on our website are two different jobs — are you saying it is assigned to one person at your company? I am fine with it though.

If you’ve been thinking about getting into the UX field for a while, you’ve probably seen various answers to this question, using various terms from the jargonscape that exists around UX. It’s unfortunate that such a great field often feels impenetrable because of the language surrounding it. But, on a positive note, the prevalence of this questions signals that it’s an awesome time to enter this field — It’s young. You can have a role in shaping the discipline. The work is fun. The pay is good.But, you are already reading this, so chances are you don’t need any convincing, just some practical, logical advice, with as little jargon as possible. So here it is.If you want to become a UX person (a.k.a User Experience Designer, Interaction Designer, UX …. [fill in the blank]), try starting here:Try to avoid resources that are too jargony. “User Experience” and “Interaction Design” are very important and you should know the difference. Start there. Here’s a video which attempts to explain this more: Do this so that you can develop a portfolio. (1–3 projects is plenty for a portfolio to get an entry level job.)This is what you will often hear called “Talk to them. Indentify their behaviors, needs, and goals.What do users currently use to meet their needs? Who does a good job meeting these needs?Where do user needs and market white-space intersect? The opportunity for your service probably lies there. How can you achieve this? Articulate this and define your goals for the new experience.(You don’t have to redesign a whole thing. You can if you want, but better to take a piece of it and be awesome than to try tackling something larger than you can handle and ending up mediocre.) This is what you will often hear called “List features you believe the piece needs to have to satisfy users and make the business money.Ex. Account area, Search, Friends, Library. These areas are “places” users do stuff. (You’re not thinking of pages/views yet — That’s next.)Determine which pages/views you’ll need within the functional areas. See if you can refactor them into a smaller number of templates. Simple is always better.Block out the content areas on the templates first, labeling the areas for yourself so that you know what content will go there and what the value of that content will be to your user. Then Wireframe. (Don’t worry about making full color visual designs. You are trying to be a UX person, not a Visual Designer. Your wireframes should still look awesome, just don’t noodle over colors and font choices too much.)See if they know what to do and like your solution. Don’t be leading. Listen more than you talk. Take their feedback and iterate.Show you have strong design basics and a great attitude. When you present your work, always always always tie your decision making process back to user needs and business goals. At the end of the interview when they ask if you have any questions, ask one to show you are interested. Ask your interviewers what they are working on right now if you can’t think of anything else to ask.For entry level-jobs, I personally think enthusiasm and good attitude goes a really long way. Follow-up with your interviewers. Thank them. Tell them you’re pumped.)Good luck!p.s. FYI, Here’s what your growth trajectory might look like: Helping #students, #developers, #designers and #startups learn about and practice #UserExperience (#UX). Do you want #help? Reach out or visit my site.

Let’s take a short journey to the center of UX design and find out what lies at its heart. The only travel items you’ll need are a couple of minutes and a cup of coffee. I’m a technical writer and UX analyst for an international software company, in case you’re wondering.So, what First up, the user and his/her experience are central to UX (UX is an abbreviation of A sunny day is a nice user experience; a stroll in a park is a nice user experience; an afternoon spent chatting in a coffee shop with a close friend is a nice user experience; but these are PASSIVE experiences. We’ve known since we were infants how to walk, and talk, or drink out of a cup.And the UX of a coffee cup is perfect. Behold: it freely stands on the table, it holds your coffee without spilling, and you can pick it up and drink out of it at any time. By analogy, as grownup adults, we know that any similarly sized and shaped vessel containing a liquid can be picked up and drunk from. We know this because it’s ingrained as part of our intuition.Intuition may not be exactly the right word, but it’s close; it’s a nice word, and it’s better than “rote learning”, which sounds like high school. A better way of thinking of intuition is An ACTIVE experience is where a user needs to do something where he/she has no intuition to guide him/her. And for the purposes of this little article, we’re talking about the context of interaction with an interface: website, software, or app.A user won’t arrive completely cold at an interface, he/she will already have some intuition about how to use it, even if she/he has never seen it before, based simply on analogy. Your shiny new website is highly unlikely to be the very first the user has visited — there will be a ready familiarity with the fundamentals: the framework of a web browser, scrolling pages, clicking links to navigate, etc.The task for the designer is to be aware of what the analogy is and to intuit how much prior knowledge could be reasonably expected for users to bring to it. The designer needs to consider the expected conventions (of their website, game, killer app, etc.), and then provide an environment where the users’ intuition will work well.If you’re designing a search function and there’s no input box to enter a search term, or something like a There’s an old expression: Appreciating user Author, etc.

The field of UX is not new. However, its role and involvement in the software development cycle has significantly increased over the past few years. Previously, a majority of businesses followed a simple product development model where the entire focus was on delivering a final product. Think of it as a “food truck” model. A popular food truck business’ main focus is to serve the final product (i.e. food order in this case) as soon as possible with little or no importance being giving to customer value or interaction. Over the period of time, businesses have come to realize the importance of customer-centric research and feedback. And this has increased the importance of User Centric Design, commonly called UCD. UX is being used for a variety of business goals nowadays, which ranges from increasing the customer conversion rate on a website to attracting potential new clients through virtual media.Software development approaches have also changed over time. The most popular software development paradigm is Agile, an approach that focuses more on collaborating individuals than the process itself.Agile Software Development methodology was a result of the need of a close collaboration between business experts and the programming team. It encouraged face to face interactions over documentation, which has proved to be way more efficient.The Manifesto for Agile Software Development, commonly known as the Agile Manifesto, first introduced the term “Agile” in the context of software development in 2001.The Agile Manifesto values:A majority of teams follow a variation of the Agile Manifesto to suit their workflow however, the core principles remain the same. Here is an example of the Agile workflow followed by teams at Agile UX is the process of designing user experiences within an Agile framework. It replaces the waterfall UX methodology which separates the UX research and prototyping, and software development into two entirely separate project phases with negligible collaboration between the two. Even though waterfall UX has a more manageable workflow from a UX point of view, it’s disadvantages are enormous in bigger projects.Waterfall UX enables the establishment of product’s behavior through development of complete high fidelity prototypes by the UX team which are then “handed over” to the software development team, who then deliver a complete software product. With a sole purpose of completing and delivering a product, this methodology runs into high risks. Imagine a scenario where the customer conversion rate after the product’s release isn’t as high as expected. Now, going back and re-evaluating the product can result in a huge monetary setback.On the other hand, Agile UX follows a more collaborative approach. The UX team, instead of defining the complete product’s behavior, proposes a selection of user journeys and is actively involved in all developmental iterations (code sprints), both building newer parts of the product, testing the interim product and providing feedback along the way. This decreases the risk of product failure significantly as the problems are caught in the early stages of development. Thus, decreasing the possibility of unwelcoming surprises at launch.Here is an interesting graph by Continue reading the article at — Design, Art and Technology in Bits and Pieces

I constantly struggle with the rolling of the eyes whenever I speak up about sustainability. Last night I attended a UX Design club and I explained how I believe marrying these two ideas together is something entirely possible and something that could truly change the world. To be able to utilize a tool such as as an app or website that can create more user friendly opportunities to practice environmental sustainability.Living sustainability is not user friendly. That’s why so many people are so un-attracted and opposed to this method of living. Perhaps they feel reminded that they are wasteful or irresponsible with their consumption or maybe they’re even thoughtful enough to reconsider for a moment that they supported a company with social irresponsibility. Or maybe they just think I’m a crazy hippy who’s trying to be cool through being ‘sustainable’ and think that I’m just a smelly person with hairy armpits who just tripped too many times and doesn’t really know.The truth is we all really don’t know shit. One of the most interesting things I’ve learned while being alive and entering this transition of adulthood is that it’s all total bullshit. Yes, there are skills that may be more finely acquired and we may have more experiences than previously but we all have a different perception of what success really is and what truly matters. To some people creating objects is their passion, or painting a picture, or making a movie, or sitting at a computer and making a graphics. They define this as their life ‘calling’. But beyond all these prototypes and beyond what even gets made how can one not recognize the importance of their impact? And all these critiques are opinions. You don’t like somebody and they use the wrong color for their graphic, they suddenly are judged as a shitty graphic designer who’s a loser. But aren’t we all losers if our life is just picking apart one another and at the end of the day working on something with no real value. Yes it can make someone smile, yes it can make something easier to read but what does it matter when our planet is destroyed. Will anyone care that you stared at your computer screen an extra hour than the next designer and that your project got 100 more views than the others on Behance? No all that will matter is our constant irresponsibility resulted in a massive devestation that ruined all of our lives and we secluded ourselves. It was my idea my work, it’s all mine. It could have been our effort our passion our planet. Instead it’s my house, my computer, my outfit, my phone, my design, mine, mine, mine. It really is so shallow and absurd that we would create such a sad an empty life for ourselves. I see people who’s whole life is design. Talking and talking and blabbing without doing. And when you do do I see time spent making something so insignificant and unnecessary for the world. So what if I can look up what shows are around me, so what if I can download an app that can help me connect with my friend in a new way? At the end of the day life is about living and you can’t do that when the planet is falling apart and melting. Save yourself now before you wake up at 50 like Linds Redding realizing your alone and have only benefitted yourself. We know these things so why is it ok to keep repeating the same mistakes over and over and over again? Learn from this guy We all do live on this planet, sometimes I feel like an alien and that I’m from another planet, but at the end of the day we are all here. I see you and you see me. We are living a truly magical life. To undermine the vast and unknown powers of creation and being is soooo truly sad. To just think that life is a competition between you and the other guy is sooooooooooooooo ridiculous. It’s not about who has the most amazing Behance it’s about who has the most amazing intention who can truly save us? WHO CAN HELP US? is there anybody out there that isn’t purely just out for themselves? What about the planet? Why do we want to change the industry for our benefit, how is that ok? How is it ok to say that ‘I’m not here to stop global warming’ (what else would you rather be doing)? How is it ok to make fun of sustainable efforts? The only thing we should be working towards is ourselves and our planet and our community. We must be there for each other, we must not cut off each others legs and throw them around pleading and convincing that one is more aesthetically pleasing than the next, but to hand your leg over to your dear friend who’s had theirs chopped off and to all know that at the end of the day we must be there for the greater good. We must help ourselves truly realize the reality of the earth’s turmoil. We must educate each other and work together to change this. We must make it easier on ourselves and our planet. We talk on and on about User Experience, but what about Earth’s Experience, doesn’t that matter more? We don’t believe in god yet we believe in our own ability to create objects and services that destroy our planet? How irresponsible is that? We must utilize these digital tools in a socially responsible and environmentally friendly manner.Changing the industry for the benefit of the world. Not for myself.

When someone mentions UX design, you might be imagining a graphic designer using Photoshop or marketing team staring at the statistics of company’s website usage. What you might not be considering is the human factor; the human psychology aspect to reach next level in your design. Below are the five areas in human psychology which designers should pay attention to: motivation, sensation, perception, emotion and cognition.MGood example of this are the GoodLife Fitness centers. Inside the facilities, you can see many motivational images and texts all delivering the same message: you can do it, keep up the good work. They are boosting your motivation by giving customers the idea that coming back is the right choice to do and by doing that they are able to get you engaged.SPEPeople find it also easy to relate to the emotions they are emphasized to. A designer should focus on creating an emotional attachment, because it gives their audience the impression you know and care about them.The problem with emotional design is that emotional responses are difficult to predict. Individuals find different things funny, scary, disgusting etc. Therefore the emotional design should be kept in general level for your target audience to make sure the emotion desired is successfully achieved.CAs an example, for a good interface design you should:Everyone is busy nowadays. Deadlines closing in, we might be more focused on “just getting the job done”. But what we shouldn’t forget is that UX design is for people. And if we want to successfully design for the people, we need to understand how the humans and human minds work. People are complex creatures, who act based on their personal interest, values and principles. Not everyone sees things the same way as designers do, so the work can’t just design for yourself.As a conclusion, I’m happy to notice that designing for humans has been around for while now, as this TED talk filmed in 2002 featuring David Kelley shows us. (Opens in a new tab.)References:Digital Experience Innovation

Web and Mobile Redesign for Redesign the IA and content strategy of a college or university while meeting the goals of the personas, the goals of the college, and its existing brand. But, what and where is York College, you might ask?My initial thoughts when visiting their website were as you might expect. I was As a first-time user, the experience was more This particular quote provides a lot of insight and direction when it came to the overall structure of the layout for the re-design. Nonetheless, I began my research with an open mind for design opportunities (a way of addressing areas in need of change).Luckily for this project, I was already give the personas I would be designing for; Mark, John, and Jessica. I was instructed to create a new version of the website keeping these three people in mind. I chose to look at how John’s experience of I used various methods of research and data visualization in order to compile a detailed case for the changes I would be making to the site.I began my research by aggregating the existing information architecture of the site and conducting an During the Furthermore, some were unable to decipher what pages such as “As In the end, I ultimately decided to do a I came up with a I was then able to reconstruct their existing site map with the data I gathered to create a more intuitive and simple experience. I grouped the categories based on where people sorted them the most. I would like to iterate upon this by doing some user testing and getting a better feel for users’ behaviors when navigating.In order to develop a more evidence-based case, I chose three other colleges in the area that were comparable to York College.I began this phase of my research by taking a look at the sheer amount of links and navigation categories there are to choose from on each website.It was interesting to look back at this information when I did my user testing. I’ll get to that in a bit.Before I put pen to paper and sketched out a new layout design, I wanted to compare the content on website.I created a layout comparison chart and a content analysis in terms of what was featued on the home page of each website. This gave me insight into current trends and conventions that should be considered in the new design.It wasn’t too ahrd to spot the commonalities between the websites, but York College really stood out in terms of its navigation location and overall bomabrdment of unnecessary content. I then performed a heuristic (best practices) evaluation for each site and displayed the results in a radar chart.York College, came out at the bottom as far as heuristics goes. With all of this information in mind, I decided to go ahead and do some user testing.I decided to focus on When I tested users to see how long it took to find childcare on the current York College website, the results were eye-opening. What is meant to be a two-click process, taking only a few seconds, turned out to be a 2+ minute ordeal where the user wasn’t even able to find what they were looking for — resulting in each user using the handy drop-down navigation menu out of frustation and sheer impatience.Drop-down menus and search bars are last-ditch efforts users take in order to find what they’re looking for.Going back to the amount of pages each site has, it was interesting to see Farmingdale, with the most pages, more easily navigable in comparison to York College, with the second most pages. It was my job to fix that.I started by sketching out a web and mobile version of the site.I then took these sketches and created low-fidelity wireframes. Mobile first.This prototype received mixed reviews. At first, it was a bit confusing for the user to understand that as you contiued to click into a particular category, the information began to populate the page, crushing the navigation. However, others enojyed this experience and thought it to be clever.I then created a fool-proof version of the first prototype, making it more simple and up to conventional standards. More user testing would be required to make a final decision, however.Although this was the first iteration, it received a pretty good review, and users were able to find what they were looking for in under 7 seconds, campared to a romping 2+ minutes.One area of confusion became evident when both users that I tested expressed their desire to click “Student Life”, instead “Services”. One user struggled to see “Services” as well. This would be an area to iterate upon.Other testing areas would be the calendar section, side bar navigation, and usefulness of the quick links next to the image carousel.As a result of my findings in the beginning, I was able to create an easy to navigate userflow for finding childcare services on the new York College website. However, furhter testing and iteration is necessary in order to fully flesh-out the possibilities of clarity and ease of use across a broad range of users.To that note, I’d like to continue working on making the York College website a more user-friendly and intuitive experience that one enojys rather than regrets. The benefits of a redesign for York’s website outweigh any number of reasons for them not to consider it amongst one of their top priorities. If not for the current and prospective students’ sake, then for the college’s own reputation — since that is ultimately what is at stake here.—

I saw an email sitting in the draft folder of an abandoned computer…To the CEO (Chief Experience Officer)/Head of CX/Head of UX or just anyone who cares:Can you please explain how to…Yours sincerely,Desperate UX personThe answer lies in the question(in association with the University of Hard Knocks Press)

{ A living document }I will list the Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.With these questions find themes, behavior patterns, mental models, user needs and priorities.Other, more contextual enquiries help find out more about their physical and motivational behaviors. Watch them in the field and observe. Carry out their tasks as though you were in their role. Observe how you react to situations and challenges from their perspective.Another way to enquire from a contextual perspective without having to physically be at their workplace, is to form a hypothetical situation that you guide the user into and watch how they find their way through. For example, with Creative Affairs, we tested the user on out prototype by creating a script that was fictional and had us, the testers play a role in their lives. In our case, we were the user’s boss. The script was written from a conversational point of view where we would ask them to perform a task for us and then give them additional tasks based on circumstances such as a sudden call to attention or someone has just phoned in to demand that we do a task for them. This created a team environment between the user and tester so that the user would react in a familiar fashion to a real world scenario when work was asked of them.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.This is my favourite part of the UX process because there is something beautiful about the balance between accuracy and disorder. Uniform shapes, deliberate lines and descriptive notes clashing with evolving ideas, constant iteration and a desperate pursuit of sound logic. Maybe that is why I was so drawn to the digital design field in the first place back in 1999. I found myself as a conductor between development and design. Currently, as a UX Designer, I find myself as a diplomat between the user, technology and the business. The process of digital design has become a lot more complex, however, the curiosity I have for the intricacies of its evolution has found me wanting to always learn more than I ever did.I prefer to use So then I started using Omnigraffle and it all made sense.Using Omnigraffle I would not only design Wire-frames but also much of the Analysis phase tasks. My typical Omnigraffle file would start looking like this:As well as the tasks listed above, Omnigraffle is perfect for wire-framing with. I continue to use Omnigraffle today although, like many people in 2014, I have started to delve into learning the abilities and limitations of Preferred applications aside, I am now going to share with you some of my experiences with wire-frames as a process.The Canvas content of a wire-frame file vary depending entirely on what project I am working on. Due to this fact, I won’t list my canvas names here but rather look at what elements I include in the canvas.Content goes here when I get around to it lol.It might be obvious that having a script and plan are an essential part of preparing for user interviewing, however, it is often over-looked and discounted. Setting goals, a focus and KPIs provide the building blocks for a successful test. To accompany the script and plan, I also have a measuring matrix drawn up in Google Sheets ready to record my test results. I have included both in the following link for you to view and use:The sheet also provides examples to explain all of the components of the plan and metrics. In addition to this plan I would also set up Silverback in order to record the user(s) and ask their permission to do so.After greeting the user I let them know that they are not being tested but rather the application/site is the one being tested. I ask them to talk out aloud as they work though the tasks I have for them and that the more specific they can be the more accurate I can be at building them the best product possible to suit their needs. I may also mention that they will receive a small gift at the end for participating and that I value their time.I will ask them to perform a few small tasks and congratulate them at the completion of each. Even if they end up in an undesired part of the test instead of the intended area, I still give them a feeling of personal success because after all, they are exposing my design flaws and will in turn save me time and money on development.After each task is complete, I thank them and reward them as best as I can with the budget I have to expend. After they leave I immediately fill out the Metrics sheet to record my findings. I will also re-visit this metrics sheet after listening and watching the replay of the recorded test to make sure I recorded all of my findings and observations.These metrics help me iterate the prototype by providing direct feedback on my design and the experience it provides to the users. They expose weaknesses in my design as well as reinforce strengths as well as raising questions and possibly more challenges.These metrics help me iterate the prototype by providing direct feedback on my design and the experience it provides to the users. They expose weaknesses in my design as well as reinforce strengths as well as raising questions and possibly more challenges.UI / UX Designer

It was a dewy, slightly drizzly day on the Internets. I was on my third latte. Serenaded by the sounds of a bustling coffee shop in Prague, I chatted over Skype with Leisa Reichelt, part of the UX team that is responsible for the overhaul of both Traditional “waterfall” projects, where the entire design process is siloed and done prior to development, often leads to work being hacked up in the development phase. As a result, many UX designers end up feeling embarrassed by projects after the fact. As Leisa notes Say you’re a UX designer on a corporate team; too often, your job amounts to working away at a desk, headphones on, creating a stack of wireframes that you then present to stakeholders. Two things will usually end up happening here:This doesn’t just happen on corporate teams; it happens in Drupal shops, Agile environments, and all sorts of tech development teams. In an artifact-centered environment, much of the actual thought that goes into good UX design can get overlooked or devalued; many a designer has heard feedback that stakeholders don’t want to “waste too much time” on activities such as user flows, concept diagrams, and other things that help us frame the design challenge before us. As designers, an important part of our job is communicating to clients the importance of just those activities, and encouraging clients to get on board in helping to create them.At its most basic level, a website is a collection of web pages. But underneath that collection of pages is a series of interactions that a user will have with a given system. Even something as simple as a newsletter signup — something that’s often thrown into a webpage at the last minute — carries with it a series of questions that need to be answered:Keeping design purely at the level of wireframes — or pages — prevents stakeholders from understanding how those interactions play out. Information Architecture is not just about understanding Drupal’s menu systems and taxonomy — it’s about understanding how users expect to access information on a given website. It’s about creating an interaction that makes sense — and stripping out the things that don’t.Let’s face it. This is an industry that favors tangible artifacts over process. It’s easy to talk about the craft of design — and to judge its physical output. We’re used to doing it. But design is not just the creation of artifacts. More often than not, a designer is facilitating collaboration among stakeholders from varied backgrounds — all of whom have a stake in the final output. We’re asking tough questions, and creating patterns and use cases. How, then, do you sell that? What does a wireframe, for example, tell you about all the non-tangible elements that went into creating that wireframe? When your role in a project is to act as facilitator, what in the physical output of that process can you claim as “your” work?The confusion of physical artifacts versus process is one of the key reasons that many teams don’t understand what good UX design actually entails. Too often, as mentioned above, the focus is on tangible output — wireframes, user flows, etc. — and often, the processes that truly make up the design of a successful interaction have more to do with conversation, conflict, and being up and away from the computer. How do you communicate that process, and its value, in an environment that is still obsessed with what they can see?One way to ensure both that you’re capturing the interactions that need to take place in a given system, and to ensure that what you’re designing can actually be implemented, is to start prototyping as soon as possible. This is one of the key benefits of Agile environments — whether you’re working on your own or in concert with a developer, putting ideas into code not only makes developers happy, but it allows you to see what issues come up with your designs early in the process.This doesn’t mean that the classic Drupal approach of “there’s a module for that” is correct, either; starting to prototype early in the process doesn’t excuse you from putting thought into how interactions might play out, or spending time sketching out ideas before you jump straight into code. One of the biggest challenges that site builders face — whether they’re designers or developers — is leaning too heavily on Drupal to create interactions for you. Design patterns are useful, but it’s just as important to make sure that the patterns you’re choosing are the right ones for the job.But it doesn’t just need designers to enter the community; designers come into Drupal all the time. Getting them to stick around? That’s a bigger issue. Yes, things are getting easier for designers in the Drupal community. People realize that we’re doing good work, and they’re starting to understand why we need to be here.But too often, the design conversation in the Drupal community isn’t a design conversation at all. It’s a theming conversation. This is one of the challenges inherent in a developer-centric culture such as Drupal; while theming and front-end development is vitally important to successful Drupal projects, calling it “design” is one of the things that prevents designers — many of whom are very skilled, but not coders by any stretch — from feeling welcome in the Drupal community.UX Designer and strategist with a love of food, the web, Post-it notes and dot-grid notebooks. I make things that help people get their work done.

Designers seem to be very fond of labeling themselves as UX-designers these days. Perhaps it’s due to the corporate focus on the value they receive when they are attentive to creating great user experiences. While I’ve tried to explain to others what But wireframes, though important to the bigger pictures, are not the only way for a company to improve their user experience. You see, I’ve found that it is actually rare for me to create wireframes anymore. Most of my days are spent communicating and guiding design decisions to improve conversions through close attention to the experience of the user.Here’s a few insights into how I actually accomplish these goals and what the deliverables look like. So I can be as clear as possible, I’ll use real cases.For the past year, I’ve been honored to work with the amazing people at Frank already works with a great team of very capable designers and developers, Because they already had designers that created both wireframes and designs, nearly all of my deliverables have mainly been through e-mail. I would look at the existing designs and give them my detailed opinion on how conversions could be improved. It could be really minor suggestions — like the wording in a button and it’s placement, or it could be more complex — like the flow of the shopping cart.I take the time to do a sweep of the entire experience, desktop and mobile, and highlight any inconsistencies that may derail the experience.When I help clients like 1. If it’s a feature that is desired by the client, it’ll usually be followed by a process of in depth learning about the system that needs to be implemented and all of its related systems. This can get incredibly technical. I certainly have a greater understanding of electrical consumption and management that I would never have known otherwise!From this meeting/learning process, I’ll head back to my office and assemble a very rough wireframe or sketch about the desired functionality and the flow of the feature. Basically I am nailing down how the user is presented information and all the different options and functionality. These will go back and forth a couple of times until it is well defined as being user friendly enough for the average user, but is still functional enough for the advanced user.2. If it’s a feature/subject or area where I can see a need for improvement, I approach it differently. Even though I’m not generally the target for the product, it’s my job to think like them and consider features that I would have like to see. These are usually presented in an e-mail, during an informal meeting, or using Keynote.The two advantages I have found Keynote has given me:As an example of this process, the project I’ve been working on with E.ON for the past two years gives a user access to manage and monitor all of their electrical and heating facilities. The user can also manually add these facilities to groups of multiple facilities. Working with groups would give the user more insights, but the way it was implemented made it difficult to create groups and managing them was labor intensive.Problem identified: The suggested approach was to let the user create dynamic groups themselves. They would be built out of three different parameters:● Geo-positioning (Where the facility is located and expand)● Energy● ConsumptionSolution: Using these three group sets makes creating groups easier and yields better information with less effort. An example of a user created group:A group that features my top 5 facilities in the larger Copenhagen area that consume the most electricity with sub-levels installed.What I have talked about so far are situations that are long contracts, but companies also work with me on a consulting basis. This usually consists of 1 hour strategy sessions over Google Hangout or Skype and are based around a set topic (on boarding, conversions, design style, or checkout flow)This is super efficient for the client because they’ll get a lot of valuable information in a really short period of time. There’s usually not a set deliverable, but the take-aways are still very tangible.As you can see, good UX designers aren’t limited to wireframes. The bigger picture elements play a much larger role than many companies anticipate. When the product features, the user journey, the microinteractions, and the beautiful design are all aligned, amazing things can happen!Let’s keep this simple: I make digital products work, by ensuring the people who have to use them know how to and enjoy doing so. 

At this point, Now, there’s no real question that This was just one of many tweets and Facebook comments in a similar vein. See, Amazon is a crazy smart company, and they spend a fantastic amount of money on refining user experience on the site, because experience is money when you’re their size. If they discover a 3px adjustment to the size of an element increases purchases by .7%, and learning that cost $300,000, that’s an education that was well worth the value. I’ve had the pleasure of getting to sit in on several UX testing sessions with them (which I can’t tell you anything else about, thanks to NDAs, yay secrets!), and they always ask great questions about interactions. That’s what makes today so… weird. Weird enough that The very first issue I saw was that it was simply painful to figure out what good deals were out there. This presentation layer was an awful way of showcasing what they had to offer. Whether it was the arbitrary categories (all of which were some form of “Exclusive”), the maddening horizontal scrolling, or the totally unrelated items mixed together, it was simply too much work to find things worth buying. It was cluttered, sloppy, and felt a lot like Netflix, actually, who I have also criticized for their maddening taxonomy. People in general don’t have the patience to sift through hundreds of items to find one worthwhile deal that appeals to them. Then, there’s the weird thing that happened when browsing the sections…Why… WHY is Amazon wasting screen real estate showing me things that are sold out and expired? What can I do with that? Do they think I’m going to go add it to my wishlist now? Do they think they’re implying scarcity? Sales are meant for impulse purchasing. You make your appeal to the customer, try to sell them on the spot, and move on. This would be like walking into Walmart and seeing empty endcaps and hoping the customer comes back later for it. Now, let’s get back to the “Kickstarter Issue.” Predictive analytics. This is Amazon. I’ve been a Prime member for I thought maybe, So apparently no, it was just a coincidence. The one very small thing I thought might have been right, wasn’t. This is the Amazon homepage today. Gone are the top banners, the horizontal scrollers prompting you with items you’ve looked at, or to treat your self with something from your wishlist. Just big banner after big banner. Note that nowhere here does it mention you need to be a Prime member to take part in the sales. A couple banners indicate “Prime Exclusives,” The reason this is crazy is because there’s no call to action on the page to BECOME A PRIME MEMBER. That’s the whole point of the sale! Instead, you have to go to the lightning deals, click through to one of the products, and happen to see this tiny, out of the way button telling you you’ll actually have to spend $100 more (well, $99). It’s not a bait-and-switch, but you can see how it would feel that way to an average user, I think. If this campaign is all It just doesn’t make any sense. As someone that usually takes part in the Steam Summer Sale, it leaves me all a bit baffled. Granted, Steam has a much different product base to deal with, but they at least get the simple things right, like showing my wishlist items on sale, and limiting the items enough that you don’t feel overwhelmed trying to sort through the pile. Time and time again I heard from people that simply gave up trying to figure out what was worth buying. They weren’t going to sift through it all, and they definitely weren’t going to stay glued to their screen.At one point, I did catch sight of a “mystery lightning deal.” Ah, a surprise! Well, surprise might be a bit generous in this case, as I soon saw the mystery when I clicked through to see what the opportunity was.As a photographer, this is just insane. For someone that has $419 to just toss at a whim, this is just insane. At best, you buy this to hope you can eBay it for more than you paid. First, if you’re remotely serious about photography, you’re not taking some random dSLR. There are lens issues, questions about ISO and shutter speed options, and just general product compatibility questions. As a Nikon guy, no way am I paying for this and getting stuck with a Canon body. Even if you’re in the market for a dSLR, when you get into the area of spending hundreds of dollars you are (I hope) doing your due diligence about what you’re getting for that money. It’s crazy to just take this on a whim. Mystery laundry detergent or universal remote, okay. Mystery multi-hundred dollar piece of tech that you’re going to commit to for possibly years, no. Granted, this is just one example, so maybe I’m being unfair compared to other mystery deals, but given the overall scope of things I feel pretty fair in pointing this one out.As another wise supervillian once said, there will be blood in the water, and the sharks will come. Not to be outdone, Walmart was fast to announce a Rollback sale of their own on their site at the same time. Walmart is, after all, a huge competitor to Amazon, even though Oh? Surely it can’t be that bad, right? I mean right? Let’s go look.Why? WHY? Why are we tossed into a blend that includes such highlights as paper towels, tablets, swimwear, and diapers? Also, for the record, 1.1 cent (not PERcent. Cent. As in 1.1 pennies.) off a pack of paper towels simply is NOT a sale. This isn’t marketing. This isn’t clever salesmanship. What Amazon and Walmart are doing is the equivalent of throwing spaghetti against a wall and seeing what sticks. They’re spamming products on the page and hoping that people click. They’re also undermining the idea of a sale or rollback in general. Since when is that a strategy? Since when is that the Amazon way, even?Aside from the Fire Phone, I’m inclined to feel like this might be the single biggest black mark in Amazon’s history. There was a huge opportunity to capitalize on the “Next year will come soon enough. They can try again, and it will be interesting to see how they improve based on what was learned here.Web tech dude, Buddhist(ish), Theatre Geek, Fountain Pen guy, Author of dotCMS From the Ground Up

I’d like to talk a little bit about User Experience (UX) Design from a beginner’s eye. I’ve spent the past month devouring the seemingly endless amount of articles, books, talks, podcasts, and tutorials related to UX so that I can hit the ground running when I begin Simple enough, right? Well, if you’re like me and learned about the various UX Design proceses such as —

There’s lots of At present, weve optimised smartphone notifications to their local maxima. Good examples include apps like More recent apps like Looking forward, it’s clear that notifications will need to drastically improve if they are to become the primary interaction model. Today, they are fairly one dimensional. Specifically, notifications simply For notifications to become more useful, our devices will have to become ever more context aware. As the hardware technology develops over time, 3rd party applications will have to make greater use of this to design good, relevant interactions.Another big impact that this shift is also going to have is on the apps themselves. What will they look like? It’s likely that apps will become less visible. Less of a tangible object. This is scary for many as ever since the GUI came on to the scene decades ago our skills were honed in user interface design. Visual stuff.This would now change significantly.We — as creators of apps — will have to become more attuned to context and timing. We’d have to start understanding, more deeply, how to initiate a dialogue with our users. We’d have to provide great initial value so that we have the Reflecting on this possible evolution presents positive signs for the UX community; who I think will thrive when faced with these new challenges. The more strategic practises of UX will be ever more central to the planning and refinement of user engagement models. Sure, AI and learning algorithms will certainly help us optimise our designs; but the fundamental app design will require the same user-centric approach being evangelised by UX practitioners today.

The Eight Tell -Tale Indicators of Counterfeit UX Design has different functionality which can be explained below :-The useful part of the article which i gained a lot from is the aspect that has to do with “ Usability Tips” which is being explained below :-

You may have heard of the term User Experience (UX) and wondered what does it mean? Lots of companies including startups are looking for UX Designers to help improve their products. Why does it seem like everyone is raving about user experience and why should you care?Even if you are not building a product or directly is involved in the creation of one, as long as you are consuming and using any product or service, then you are part of the equation. User Experience or UX is about how you as the user feel and think about a product or services you are using.An intuitive product will lead to a good user experience because you as the user feels it’s easy and friendly to operate. On the other hand, a service that didn’t deliver on their promise will result in a bad experience.I’m not a UX designer but since I am a user, I do have my thoughts and expectations from the products I use. I will illustrate the importance of user experience by using elevators as an example. Most of us have used an elevator and are quite familiar with how it functions. You press a button then wait for it to arrive and ferry you to another floor. Sounds pretty simple and straight-forward, right? If you dissect the entire journey of taking an elevator, you’ll notice there are many elements working together to make your ride an enjoyable one.The experience starts with you looking for the elevators. Ideally, the elevators are placed strategically or if it’s not, then there should be ample signage and instructions to locate them. In hotels, they are usually located near the reception desks or at the core of the building where guests go to travel between floors.Once you found them, the next thing you are looking for would be the buttons. The elevator buttons, as the first User Interface (UI) element you will interact with, should be placed prominently and clearly communicate the current state it is in. If the button is active ie. pressed, it should be illuminated.Since you are using the elevators to move up or down from the current floor, the buttons should be placed in the same manner to communicate its direction. Bonus points if the height of the buttons is low enough for children and someone on a wheelchair to access them.Besides communicating its state by illuminating itself, the button should work together with the hall signal to let you know which elevator shaft you should wait at. Using a combination of sound, light and floor indicator, you will be guided towards the correct elevator shaft to wait for your ride.Nobody likes to wait, but unless someone invents a teleportation device, waiting is part of the experience of taking an elevator. Ideally, the best way to reduce wait time would be to have fast elevators and an efficient algorithm to manage them. Unfortunately, we don’t live in an ideal world and there are too many variables that can affect the wait time.Using a combination of floor indicators, sounds and display animation, the perceived waiting time for an elevator can be reduced. By communicating progress, you as the user will feel less anxious and in some cases lets you decide if you want to wait for the elevator or just take the stairs. And if I do choose to wait, I expect to be notified as early as possible on which shaft I should wait at. What’s worse than waiting for your ride is to miss it.Well-designed elevators will have hall signals and chimes to indicate when an elevator door is about to open. I’ve been to places where not only that it didn’t have any sound or any visible indicators, but due to the placement of the elevators, I was unable to have a clear view of the doors. Therefore, I only realized that I’ve missed it when the button was deactivated and I had to start the entire process again. That to me was a bad user experience.Once you enter the elevator, the second half of your journey begins. You’ll come in contact with another set of buttons where you select the floor you wish to go. These buttons, like the previous ones, should be placed at a good height, have clear indicators that it is pressed, ordered intuitively (e.g. higher floors on top, lower ones below) and have clear numbering and labels on them.There should also be a floor indicator in the elevator that clearly states the current floor you are on and constantly provide updates as you travel towards your designated floor. To cater for users on wheelchairs, some elevators would have reflective surfaces so they don’t have to turn around to see the floor indicators.After you selected your floor, you now once again have to wait till the elevator reaches your floor. Hopefully, the designers paid as much attention this part of the journey as before and provide you with progress indicators so you’ll feel less anxious and reduce the perceive waiting time.The job of an elevator is to get you to your designated floor as quick and as seamless as possible. The entire experience should be enjoyable or at the bare minimum feels natural and not obstructive. After all, the elevator ride is just a mean to an end.So, as the elevator approaches your designated floor, it should notify you with both sound and visual indicators. This is especially important if you are not alone in the elevator and require some time to get yourself to the door before it opens.As the door opens, you look one last time at the floor indicator, confirming that this is indeed the floor you want to get off then exit and head towards your destination. If that entire experience happened without incident or went unnoticed, then the designer did well enough. If at any point you felt frustrated and annoyed with any part of the elevator ride, then to you, it was a bad user experience.The first goal of a UX designer is to at least make the entire experience seems seamless and transparent. Once, you manage to achieve that, you can then attempt to delight and surprise your users with a unique experience. Most of the time, being able to craft an experience that is transparent and seamless it hard enough. And too often, designers focused too much on delighting the user and let the fluff gets in the way.Good UX is one that feels intuitive and natural to you. The great ones are so good that you won’t even notice they are there because they do their job so well. User experience is all about being user-centric. Great UX designers have great empathy and are able to put themselves into their users’ shoes. They have to assume users have no prior knowledge of the system and need to consider each and every unique circumstance.User experience is much more than the user interface you interact with. It’s not about how pretty the design of the product is but rather how intuitive and easy for your user to reach their goal. Remember that they are using your product to perform a task and the job of a UX designer is to make sure users can reach there as fast and as easy as possible. A product that does its job well is a product with a great user experience.Ruby on Rails Dev who loves Product Dev, Tech, Education  blogs at Insights  Thoughts on Life Hacks, Productivity and Team Dynamics — 

Having made the shift from visual design myself a few years back here’s the approach I recommend when visual designers ask me how to get into UX:Get cosy with your UX team and offer to create UX artefacts that leverage all of your design skills. Don’t start with running a requirements gathering workshop, doing contextual inquiries or writing a feedback survey.That’s obvious right? You must understand the end to end UX and CCD process and gain a holistic view of the discipline. You won’t be able to master all of the different disciplines and though it’s common perception we ARE the mythical unicorns, pick your areas of strength and interest and become an expert in those. E.g. research, analysis, IA, user testing, prototyping, interaction design, etc.You’ll spend a great deal of your time talking to people, it’s a social job. So, less headphones and more conversations. With customers, stakeholders, project owners, BA’s, developers, designers, the list goes on. As a UX professional you are the glue that binds them and connects the dots. You must be convincing in delivering your insights and opinions and be empathetic when listening to everyone’s needs and requirements. Lose your designer ego and use feedback to improve your solutions.Many UX researchers have a background in anthropology or psychology and I strongly believe all UX professionals should have a If you’re good with a mouse but not a pen, get drawing. There is not one meeting where I don’t draw a diagram, a flow or a process to visualise the conversation. Having something to point at (even just a box with an arrow) helps everyone to focus the conversation. Get known as the guy/girl with the pen. Leave a trail of sticky notes with doodles and scribbles on them. The perception of you as a visual thinker will skyrocket.Without data it’s just an opinion. Yes, that’s oversimplification, but a good one to pull on your marketing manager who wants the rotating carousel at the top of the page.Ask lots of questions, all the time, at work and in your daily life. Challenge every assumption and requirement for your project and always keep the user in mind. Observe people how they interact with products and systems, like the self checkout machine at the supermarket. Take notes. UX mode always on.Join a local UX Lastly,Don’t oversell yourself. You’re learning and that’s ok. Just find your place in the UX spectrum and work towards where you want to be in a year’s time. Don’t show me your pretty wireframe and tell me you’re a UX designer.UX and Interaction designer for Financial Services. Passionate about design and technology. Draws, reads and sleeps on weekends.Quick ideas that will make you a better person

In a recent article in UX leaders need to help designers understand how their work impacts the bottom line. A few years ago, I stumbled upon the business impact my work was having, when I learned that a redesigned product suite had seen conversions go up by 300%. I just happened to be in the room when the product manager was discussing the year-over-year results.Since then, I take a pointed interest in finding the right metrics to measure our business impact. As a UX leader, I always ask myself how designers can keep their eye on the financial impact and success of the apps they work on. Here is an example:If you redesign four different standalone products, where users have to go to separate websites and use different login credentials that have no task integration so that they function as a single product suite, you will be able to measure some results. You raise conversions 15% in the first year, 45% the next year, and it’s sustained; that represents a lot of money in terms of product sales. As a designer, you generally don’t get exposed to that information — you have to ask the right questions, and those questions are not about design, but about the business, the product sales and revenue.The burden to connect these data points is on you, the designers, and the design leadership, whether that’s a manager, director or VP. You can’t expect the rest of the business to hand the answers to you if you don’t ask.It is also important for designers to make a point of understanding I was working with a large education organization, and they were talking about a measure I had to look up, TTM, meaning “trailing twelve months.” Acquisitions and divestitures are tracked in this manner; it’s a measure of the company’s financial health. A product release could contribute to the TTM measure, and my design work could have an impact. So if the CIO cares about TTM, it’s my burden to address his concern and consider how design can have a positive business impact. If that’s what he values, everything else I talk about is just noise. As a design leader, I have to know how to get signal through the noise.This article complements a three-part series onPublished also in Follow me on Twitter Image Credit: User Experience Executive, Strategist, International Speaker and Author. #Transformation #Innovation #UX #Leadership #DesignThinking 

So another week went by and it has been much busier. But I’ve set a goal and I am not that easy to discourage type of person. So let’s keep going forward.Have I told you, that I’ve started to learn how to sketch? If no, I am gonna explain why I took this step.I am not sure where this came to me from, but i was told, that we are not supposed to put too much focus on perfectly sketched mockups. Your lines are not supposed to be perfectly straight, circles nicely rounded and corners don’t have to be exactly 90 degrees angles. Is this because your mockups will be re-sketched numerous times? The customer tends to not destroy your beautiful art, so you don’t receive the kind of feedback you were looking for? And at last you have to be quick when re-sketching the idea during the session? Those are valid points, I would certainly answered all the questions positively.But there is always a fine line to the other side. I believe that in the eyes of customers, UX is more like an art. But unappealing mockup with greatest ideas could ruin your project. You want to have your customer happy all the time without any point during the design phase where he or she could be uncertain of your skill-set. Having the skill to sketch beautifully can add value to your work in customer’s eyes. If they sees that you can sketch with ease in your hand opposite to the clumsy way.I do believe that you have to be confident when presenting your mockups or wireframes. I felt like I am not so strong in my sketches, I was always erasing lines not because they were wrongly placed, but I couldn’t follow exactly what I had on my mind. Plus you can easily use your sketching skill in other areas of design.For that reason I’ve started to read and practice my drawing with So this is for today post, I have a couple of ideas for next post I want to write about. See you next weekend.Permanent IT student and want to be UX designer writes about his journey.

As the User Experience field continues to grow and become more defined in our industry, there is an emerging need for the “UX Developer.” Especially when you are the one person ux team at your company or you have a small to medium ux team, you tend to find yourself usually spread thin. Normally, struggling to stay ahead of the development sprint cycle, you sometimes tend to find yourself falling behind deliverables, which in turn may not allow you to submit your wires or design on time…sound familiar?Lately, I’ve had the privilege of learning from other top UX designers in the industry, where they have shared concepts such as realtime design collaboration with the business and tech leads, to strategies of better managing these situations. However, even knowing all of the above, it is sometimes not enough.In order to meet today’s fast pace changing industry, part of any UX team should involve key or lead developers that are UX trained or have a user first approach.It’s not just UX designers anymore that a team should rely on but also having trained UX Developers is a huge advantage to any team. UX Developers can not only be relied as technical lead, but also team up and support the UX Designer when discussing design and technical challenges with steak holders about what can be the best user experience from a technical perspective.You may have a few “Hybrid Designers” that can code and design, but those are rare. The majority of designers have little understanding of what the technical challenges are and what a developer goes through to accomplish what’s proposed on the design. Having a developer that can understand usability and that can be aware of human mind mental models, or a user first approach makes a world of a difference in all aspects of the project life cycle.Hearing your developer speak up and defend the design decision with examples of best ux practices from a technical perspective is always refreshing to hear.Furthermore, having a developer that truly understands user behaviors and champion user first approach has additional benefits.If you have a huge project that’s moving at a rapid pace and you have a small ux team that is starting to fall behind completing deliverables, you can now rely on your developer to take care of basic UI interactions and features.This alleviates some pressure off of the ux designer and it does not hold up the project. This allows the developer to run with the basic overall concept and structure, helping align the key components in the UI and keeping the user in-mind throughout the development process.Later the UX designer can come back and provide tweaks and changes in the next iteration (assuming you are working in an Agile structure) vs having to spend hours designing that whole screen or wire framing each section.A UX Developer should understand: Human Mind Usability, Mental Models, User Interface Best Practices, Scaling Interfaces from a UX perspective, Mobile Interaction Best Practices, etc.Learn hands on from industry experts during our Talented Hybrid UX Designer / Specialist

Ok, here’s thing.I’m right about to post my story on Medium via Medium App. But I want to make this particular story unlisted. No such option for me. The only thing I can make is public post or an automatically saved draft.Ok. There are no secrets, let’s make it public.So, how can i edit my story on Medium via Medium App?Well, after couple of minutes trying, I realized that I’m doomed. Maybe I’m blind, or maybe it’s too complicated for my silly brain, but personally I don’t get how to edit a story in Medium App.Highlighting text is obvious, bookmarking story is obvious, deleting story is obvious, but there are no chance of editing. UX disappointment anyway. Welcome to desktop, welcome to website.Ok, the last one for today. Want to select all?That’s really creepy, you know.Have a good day!

Host of 

That is absolutely the right idea with UI and UX. Too often creativity stumbles when it hurts usefulness.

Almost all the e-commerce companies are going the marketplace model way. Scalability is the primary reason for a business to do so. But there is another unstated (probably unadmitted) reason which leverages non-responsibility of such platforms for the quality of product or service being offered. This is the cruel and vicious side of e-commerce platforms. No one wants to take responsibility of a bad job but never lags behind in taking full credit of a good one. Being a marketplace, legally it’s easy for companies to shrug a blame off onto a seller and move on. Morally and ethically they should be responsible for any bad experience. We’ve all been hearing about such cases across online services be it I’m sharing my recent experiences with 2 of the famous e-commerce platforms.I had to book some tickets urgently just a few hours before the travel. I chose to go with Redbus having heard a lot about it. This was my first experience of using Redbus. Discovery and filtering of buses were pleasantly easy. But shortlisting was horrible. There wasn’t enough information from authenticated sources about the quality, experience and route specific alerts. I had to take a leap of faith and booked the tickets with a service provider. This decision turned out to be the worst decision in my recent past.Had I known this information beforehand, I would have opted for another mode of transport. I couldn’t do anything about it except cancelling the return ticket.Same scenario on a different day. I reached home after a late night flight. Somehow managed a sleep of 4–5 hours before getting up at 5:30 in the morning. This time, I chose to use PayTm to book my last minute bus ticket. Surprisingly there were buses leaving in a couple of hours at the time I checked the availability on PayTm. Being in a hurry, I chose the earliest available bus and booked it. I received the confirmation message and all sorts of information from PayTm in a few minutes after booking. This was very quick and I was surprised at the ease of booking. I didn’t know that this good surprise was going to turn into a bad nightmare soon. Right after booking, I called the bus service provider to confirm the ticket just to be sure. The person asked me to forward the booking SMS and wait for some time. As the pickup time was approaching, I picked up my stuff and left for the pickup location. I reached at the location 15 minutes before the stipulated time just to be sure to not give the bus driver an excuse to leave me stranded. But to my shock, when I called the service provider again after reaching at the bus stop about the status, he blatantly said that the bus was not operating that day. I was completely startled with this unexpected response. But as it was urgent for me to leave, I managed to book another bus service after waiting for an hour at the pickup location.Having been sleep deprived and stranded at the pickup location, I decided to take up this issue with PayTm. So, I wrote them about the incidence and asked for their reply. To my further dismay, PayTm replied that it was my fault as I had not reached the pickup location in time and they even refused to refund the bus ticket fare. This is when I completely lost trust in PayTm.They didn’t even bother to check with their service provider who, surprisingly, maintained that the bus wasn’t operating that day even after knowing that he would have to refund the ticket amount. The bus service provider was my only hope as there wasn’t a way to present the call I had with him as a proof.I continued my battle with PayTm over the issue which continued over a month and furnished them proofs of the fault at their and the service provider’s end. And finally won it. But the worst part was that one of their product managers called and told me that I was lying!Both these bad experiences have a common cause. The apathy of the company after sales. Both the above-mentioned companies lack requisite information to make a right decision, a system to check a provider’s service quality and a system to check real-time service statuses.I hope that the startups will take the after-sales experience seriously and start being accountable for such experiences.Innovator 

It is always refreshing to try out a new take on an old research technique, so let’s get predicting!Originally posted on the blog “ux designer 

Lean is the new black. But what is it really and how does it affect UXers? If you’re one of the lucky ones, you’re on a product team with solid hand-off from product management to design to development, and it seems like a smoothly running agile machine. You may even shine on a design team that applies Design Thinking principles to get to a great experience.After such growth as a designer, you may still be wondering a lot about the “why.” Where do these requirements come from anyway? And why does it seemingly come from a black box?When I came across the Lean UX book, a short 124 page read by Jeff Gothelf, I gobbled it up. It’s not the first time I’d heard of Lean. Yet reading how important UXers like myself are in the process, I had to learn more about the lean strategy by trying to do it myself. I put it to the test with my new project Pimlio (pimlio.com).While figuring out how to organize the effort, I realized that I was really only referring to 14 pages (p 17–31) of the book. The rest of the book is background, motivation, or outdated education on design (skip these parts, seriously; the style guide section may anger you).At the end of the day, the moral of this book is simple:The lean process he describes in a mere 14 pages is as follows:The “UX” in Lean UX is that many hypotheses can be tested with “MVPs” that are as simple as a launch page with sign ups, a user evaluation, customer interviews, or A|B tests — none of which need a released product to test. Hence, you may not need a developer for your MVPs!After trying this process out with my team, I believe the book should be titled “Lean UX: How User Experience Designers can help test MVPs.” This is because MVPs don’t necessarily get you an “Improved User Experience” as the title implies, but rather they enable you to test risky uncertainties early (that’s the Lean part) When I sat down to try what the author outlines in those 14 pages, I realized that two things needed to occur:I created workshops where we could collaborate until our brain hurt (no more than 2 hours), then pick up again the next day. You may or may not be able to have an in person pow-wow. If not, it turns out doing this remotely with paper  pen, screen shares, virtual sticky notes, and Google Docs can get you pretty far — that’s what we did.The first step is to set the scope with a problem statement. The author provides a template and examples. The key here is to set the problem space, the high level perspective for the team to work under and nothing more. Don’t go down a rabbit hole with a long-winded statement filled with Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). You’ll get to the details later. I recommend drafting one ahead of time to kick-off the workshops. Here’s what we used on Pimlio:Once you have the problem statement, it’s time to pull all the assumptions you’re making out of your brains. The worksheet he provides helps to get started. We chose to give everyone a limit of 15 minutes to simultaneously scribble their answers (assumptions) on paper before the chaos of collaboration crowded out any ideas. Question those fundamentals you thought to be fact, assumptions such as “they want it at all,” “they will pay more for x if y is free,” or “more will use it if.” After a timer rings, take turns sharing while someone transcribes the ideas onto sticky notes (one assumption per note). For example, on Pimlio we came up withMy favorite part is the prioritization matrix. Before this point, no idea was a bad idea. Get it all out! Now it’s time to narrow down to the risky assumptions we have no idea are true or not.Sort assumptions based on how certain you are of them, and how risky they are. What does risky mean? The book guides us to go by Take a breath, because the hardest part is over! Have someone record those assumptions for the next workshop where you simply reword them into hypotheses statements. Doing this step together is optional, I think. At first it’s good to do it together to get everyone practiced at it. But over time, or in the interest of time, you may choose to let a veteran transcribe assumptions into hypotheses statements on their own, then then regroup to tackle the brainstorm in the next collaborative workshop.You may notice my workshops don’t follow his suggested process exactly. We struggled with the order the author suggested for breaking down the outcomes We gave each other two votes to pin what we thought would be the best way to test the outcome, and settled on no more than three (usually only one or two) ideas. This allowed us to break the hypotheses into measurable sub-hypotheses from there: His guidance on these last steps is extremely weak, so I continued to modify the process. We grouped the testable sub-hypotheses into themes we could work on together (e.g. launch page, user evaluations, interviews, networking, etc.). We then sorted those themes by the logical order in which we wanted to tackle them. For example, we wanted to run user evaluations before interviews so that we don’t taint the studies. While referencing our themes in order, we roughly placed our activities into a schedule.We assigned an owner to facilitate the work, gave approximate deadlines, and our plan was born. Yippee! We collectively came to this plan, and felt great about it. On Pimlio, we decided to do this work in parallel while building our Beta. Many of the tests go hand in hand with what we want to build anyway. But now, we’ll either be confident by launch, or we’ll fail early, pivot, and pick ourselves back up.Any time you want to create something new, run Lean. Pivot if you have to. If you don’t, keep building. This means a new company, a new RD project, or a new release (yup, that often). Literally, when it’s time to build something new.When we ask product managers to deliver “requirements,” they can up with anything vague, that stifles creativity or too concrete. Everything and anything can be deemed a requirement. Instead they should put problems to solve on the table. Work with your product managers to produce well-written problem statements (you need perfect this to get designers started anyway). Then after prioritization assumptions, you’ll collectively know where to run lean.Sometimes there are a lot of risky unknowns, and sometimes there aren’t very many. When the market is in a stable period and you have confidence in what to do next, this process will leave you with fewer assumptions to test. But when assumptions come out that are risky unknowns, you’ll be glad you took the effort to evaluate them.Don’t just read the book — do it too! Don’t have buy-in from your whole organization? Pretend like it’s your responsibility anyway, and show the greater team what you accomplished. They’ll want in on it too, and you can adjust the scope of your problem statements as they do.This book gets you motivated to run Lean. It’s relatable to designers, and makes us feel like we are a part of it. It’s also practical in that it outlines the process itself so that we can follow it.On Pimlio, we felt like we won a race — exhausted yet energized after executing these workshops. We didn’t just have a plan anymore. We had a smarter plan. Before going lean, we had what we thought was a small MVP, and while our scope was nice and tight, it wasn’t as smart. With concrete goals and KPIs to test, now our whole team can help collect those metrics while we work.The author skims over the most useful part, the lean process. More examples and case studies would make this book more practical indeed. He does not show end-to-end examples. And worst of all, he does not provide an example of his final output, the “hypotheses table.” It was an incredibly useful 14 pages, but alas it could have used at least 2 more.Also, I just can’t end without saying I wholeheartedly disagree with him on the importance of a style guide that goes beyond visual design. Not only is he contradicting having pizza-sized teams (by advocating designs that can be consumed by thousands of developers), but it’s time wasted for the valuable UX resource Have you tried running lean with your team?How did you end up doing it?Did you modify the process?Pimlio founder, designing awesome.People know us. We are important. We have many UX books and our homes smell of coffee and usability studies.

Back in May we Kickoff is predominantly used at my place of work, Pre version 5, Kickoff’s folder structure looked something like this:Can you see css, img, scss  js in the root of the project? On one hand, it is easy to find them :thumbsup:, but on the other, it is a messy structure because there are source files mixed with compiled code. The compiled Javascript lived inside the js folder but the compiled scss lived in the css folder.. :confused:To fix this, we moved all these into an assets folder, but separated the source code and compiled/dist code. We decided that this would be more useful as there is now a separation of concerns  if you have a continuous deployment workflow you can deploy an entire directory and leave the source files behind. See below for the updated tree:Other changes to folder naming should help developers to know where to look without having studied the frameworks’s details. More recently, the scss folder We have been pushing our As an example, the generator asks if you would like to use Browserify or a simple file concatenation workflow and then generates the correct boilerplate files and grunt config. Below are all the questions that the generator asks:Lest we forget one of the most important parts of any open-source project – documentation and examples. Kickoff’s documentation lives on it’s website at To see the v5.0.0 release notes, please visit the If you maintain your own framework or work on a large project, have a think about the UX of your project — how easy is it for new developers to intuit where files go or where CSS is written? Some small changes can make a big difference.

UX dark patterns for ‘unsubscribe’ are abundant. What’s the fix though? Perhaps a standard’s body and certification authority? We shame those who don’t comply… and reward those who do?

I recently signed up for Twitter to create a presence for a new design and UX business I am starting. I want to use Twitter to follow leading professionals in my field, share my knowledge and expertise and engage with prospective customers.As I went through the on-boarding and signup process, it occurred to me that it could be improved with more of a focus on business and less on consumer. So, I drafted some minor changes on thoughts on improving Twitter’s on-boarding and signup process.Overall, Twitter does a nice job with its on-boarding and my thoughts below are more of a reflection on Twitter’s business strategy than fundamental UX and design issues.Here you can see my comments on the first step of the Twitter On Boarding Experience below. I like the simplicity here, and a single clear call to action to the user moving easily through the sign up process.However, if you look at this screen, and are new to Twitter it would lead you to believe that Twitter is just about celebrities, sports, kids and vacations. Basically, it leads you to believe that Twitter is completely focused on personal interests.Twitter is certainly useful for sharing personal interests, and staying on top of news and sports. However, Twitter is underselling itself here. Twitter is so much more powerful as a business platform as well. Twitter can be used to stay on top of your industry and share your own knowledge and expertise.In addition, Twitter is hugely powerful to prospect for leads, manage customer support. In short, Twitter is incredibly useful to engage with your prospects and customers. I know this is more of a strategic decision most likely rather than a UX issue, but they are intertwined from my perspective. How can you educate a new user on the potential of Twitter if you are messaging a new user exclusively on sports and celebrities.To address the issues mentioned above, I created a new UX design. I simply messaged the user about the Twitter business uses and updated the images and only used 3 to reduce the clutter and noise.This step focused on asking the user to tell you about there interests. Again, there is little focus here on business. So I changed this step to include industries as well as business functions.This step is fine. I would expand the recommendations based on industries and functions.This step is a bit lackluster. I wish this step were more interesting with beautiful gorgeous photos used for the background on a profile. And the user could customize or reset here. Another idea is to use this step to further refine the recommendations.After going through the sign up process, you are landed on your profile page. As you can see from the image below, Twitter tries to jumpstart engagement with a few sample tweets. I think this is a great idea. However, I would have included just 1 sample tweet so that the open tweet box is above the fold.Driving engagement is super critical for Twitter. And right now the focus of the on-boarding experience to consume news, media, and sports real time information. But what about educating the user on the power of direct communication.For example, there is no mention of replying to tweets, or the private message features? Why not have the user send a private message to Twitter? Why not send a reply to the user’s first tweet from Twitter. This would demonstrate the power of connections and conversations.Twitter does a great job with a simplified on-boarding and sign up process. Overall, I think it could be improved if the messaging is balanced and includes a focus on business uses of Twitter as well as personal and consumer uses. I will have a follow-up post on making Twitter more engaging and interesting.UX Design

Yes, smartphone UX it absolutely terrible for mediating or enhancing our experience with the physical world. I too long for something better.Practically, haptic guidance systems would clearly also have huge implications for those with vision loss.

Don’t think you can design graphics? Not true. You can use I can train high school kids to design killer advertisements. All the thinking around color swatches etc… is abstracted. Check out this advertisement we created in seconds for Don’t think you know UX? Not true. You can use ProductHunt and + IXDChecklist to learn a lot about UX. There’s 15,000 web and mobile apps that launch every day. Do SWOT analysis and you’ll know the behavior of millions.Don’t think you can learn a lot about an industry quickly? Not true.You can ask questions on over 6000 Don’t think you can code something up? Not true. You can pseudo-code complex apps with Followed by 

In 2009, author Steve Krugg introduced the concept of creating highly intuitive web experiences in his book, To summarize Mr. Krugg in another way, he basically told us that we needed to start developing The interruptive nature of mobile is forcing us into an interesting place. We are bombarded with By creating experiences that For example, if you’re in retail, it might not make a lot of sense to notify your users of a promotion in the middle of their workday. They’re often too busy to focus on it and take action (a main goal of push messaging on our mobile devices). At best they may remember seeing our message when they have some free time and visit our site. Worst case is that the user puts us in the “unimportant” category, dismisses the notification and gets annoyed with the interruption. You just became part of the daily “noise” that we all have to filter through.Instead, ask yourself this question: Big players are already seeing the need to anticipate customer needs and create experiences that anticipate wants and quickly get meaningful information Product innovator, digital marketer, ux, technology

In the age of wearable technology, Fitbit has taken center stage and in many ways stolen the show in the health and fitness category.I finally shuffled to the top of the hill at 40 this year. I have suffered from chronic back and neck pain as well as acid-reflux disease for over a decade now. Something had to give, and Ben  Jerry certainly weren’t helping a brother out. I’ve lost nearly 30lbs in the past 6mos since I stopped — or at least significantly slowed — my consumption of refined sugars and started actually exercising. Imagine that.One of the welcome additions in my new lease on life has been the ability to measure my fitness goals using the Fitbit Flex. One of the setbacks is that I’ve developed something of a love/hate relationship with the device. I’d like to share my experience with Fitbit Flex because:One of the features I stumbled upon through app exploration was the silent alarm feature. Part of my fitness regimen involves waking up at the ungodly hour of 4:30am. My wife is a super-light sleeper so whether she liked it or not she was being disturbed by the Yanni-esque wake up tone through my Sleep Cycle app. Even after changing it to vibrate, because my phone was underneath my huge pillow, her sleep was still being disturbed. Fitbit’s silent alarm allows me to set a wake time through the app, and even lets me specify that it should only go off on weekdays. Ah, all better. Now my wrist gets a little vibration action every morning and my wife stays undisturbed.Who doesn’t love the idea of making fitness fun? Milton Teagle (né Richard) Simmons and his puffy hair have been trying since the ‘80s! One of the things Fitbit does really well is rewarding you with badges as certain milestones are achieved. These are all viewable within the app.Other gamifying aspects are social in nature. You can add friends who also sport the wrist-rubber-big-brother to a variety of challenges and taunt and/or cheer them on. These social aspects become competitive and actually drive you to want to achieve better results since the stakes are higher… and much more public!This is one of the super-valuable pros to the app. You can customize total daily steps goal and get multiple motivational notifications throughout the day — that is if you never turn your Bluetooth off (a fit about Bluetooth later). In addition to steps, you can also set calorie, weight, and sleep goals (a fit about sleep mode later).Big kudos to the design team on the app: it’s simple, intuitive, and visually appealing. The data charts are also very well designed. My only complaint is that some of the important features (like silent alarm and goals) are buried in the account preferences funnel.Yes, it is, but I still take mine off before showering. Nice to know though when I bathe the little one I don’t have to panic every time it gets wet, although I’m probably racking up unmerited steps in the process (a fit about accuracy later).I’ll be honest here, up until my research for this article, I thought the multiple taps for “Sleep Mode” was for putting the entire device to sleep so that the Fitbit stopped tracking in order to save batteries. I still have a major UX problem with this gesture, which I’ll get into in a sec.Once I realized that the Fitbit still tracked movement in sleep mode, I was somewhat relieved, and actually utilized this feature (correctly) for the first time the other night to track my sleep. All along I thought I had to go into the app every time to activate it. So, instead of continuing to let the hate flow through me, I’m now more eating granola barefoot in the mountains on this one.Like “This gesture is way too easily initiated without user intent. Here’s how it happens:Obviously, the heuristics of this gesture need some work. I would love it if it could be a tap/hold gesture to gauge intention, but alas…this is not possible with the current iteration since it’s strictly an accelerometer and can only interpret movement/taps/bumps and not touch.Wave your hands in the air…now wave’em like you just don’t care! Nice, you just added 10 “steps” to your daily goal!This is probably my biggest issue with the Fitbit. You should understandably expect a pedometer to have a high accuracy rate — especially when you’re putting so much faith in it to measure your health and fitness goals. The problem with a wearable pedometer device that uses an accelerometer to measure “steps” is that it also records pretty much any quick hand movements.Here are some of my own examples I’ve been observing and testing into:On the seldom occasion that I’m not listening to podcasts on my way to/from work, I listen to music. And when I do, I play air drums. I can’t help it — the rhythm is gonna get me … every time.My work commute is significant. I drive from about 15 miles east of Colorado Springs to South Denver. This equates to about 55 miles each way. Travel time averages out at around 1h 15m each way. My weekday mornings start out with 30 minutes on the treadmill, which gives me a nice start toward my goal each day. However, just by air-drumming on my leg on the way I garnered 2,261 “steps” and almost achieved my 10k goal by the time I arrived to work! Yay me!I conducted another test (air drum free), just listening to my normal podcasts on the way to/from work and look at the 3011 step differenceThis drives my wife nuts. Not that I’m awesome at bacon, but that on the days I make it, I was always way ahead of her in our daily goals by mid-day. This was a big issue until I switched the setting of my dominant hand, then well, I don’t know…I don’t yet have the supporting data. Darn, I’ll have to test that again! Bacon!I live on the prairie (5 acres of it) in beautiful Colorado. So, naturally (especially when we get lots of rain) I have to keep on that prairie grass.Thankfully, I have a riding mower (John Deere if you please) that helps me with that. Unfortunately, my Fitbit more than doubles my average step count when I mow the lawn.It was Saturday, June 27th. I spent 3–4 hours on my mower on this particular day. Apart from this, I only took my normal relaxed weekend strides around the house. Somehow I racked up a whopping 22,125 steps by end of day! Look at my following day Sunday, June 28th. I look like a lazy butt comparatively. Only difference in my behavior? Sitting on a riding mower for a few hours.I am aware of the “Wrist Setting” and that you can change it to “Non-Dominant” wrist to try and avoid some of the potential hand-waving inaccuracies, which I did do.There are still a couple problems with this:Ideally, the accelerometer would have more intelligence measuring impact of weighted footsteps using user’s weight data collected in on-boarding process vs. just counting every arm movement from air-traffic control to that goofy Saturday Night Fever pointing dance.I know there are some fitness attributes of course to moving our arms and Fitbit is just be trying to hook us up and give us credit, but the value of moving our arms vs. our entire body shouldn’t qualify as equal exertion.I do love that Fitbit uses Bluetooth technology to keep it wireless. It just bothers me that unless you keep your phone’s Bluetooth setting activated persistently, you will never receive any low-battery notifications, because it’s obviously not able to send you that message (even though it requires an Internet connection anyway to send data across to your phone).Fitbit boasts that they have:You still use more phone battery power than you would want to and end up charging your phone more often. So basically, in order to save batteries on your phone, you cannot tell if your batteries are dead on your FitBit.My final fit has to do with the wristband. This one is by far the least disparaging, yet still worth mentioning.So for whatever reason (I’m sure there’s a valid design one), the Fitbit wristband has a metal plate at the bottom even though the fastener teeth attached to it happen to be plastic.Only reason I can think they decided to make the plate metal was because it looks cooler and catches the light better. Sexy factor (a.k.a. form over function?) Dan Cederholm’s Fitbit wristband seems to be earning passive income as a demolitionist. Look what it did to his MacBook! The other problem with the wristband fastener is it’s not very easy to put on. You have to really use those newly formed fitness muscles, and a little dab of elbow grease to snap that sucker on!It’s quite possible that the design rationale may be if it’s really difficult to put on, it will be really difficult to accidentally take off. Maybe so, but mine has come off numerous times on accident during house cleaning and other occasional occurrences of catching it on various surfaces.Not convinced the “preproduction units” flaw has been fixed.I agree that putting the wristband does get easier after the first few times, but it never becomes easy and painless. Couple of readers/commentors on the above review would agree.To sum it up, I’m not (fit)bitter, so please don’t misunderstand me. The reason I started with the good in this article was because there really are a LOT of good things about Fitbit Flex. I still wear mine religiously. In fact, I’m wearing it right now as I type this.I’ve seen great advantages in my own life in wearing one to help me achieve optimal fitness and keep myself accountable to that end. I just want anyone considering a purchase to be aware of the things I would’ve never noticed until I owned one and started observing my experience with it.Just like any great product, there are always opportunities to make it even better. Take the original iPod vs. current iteration for example.Fitbit has been at this for a good while and have only gotten better with time, so I’m confident if they want to stay relevant and yes even stay Also, I’d love to engage in conversation with you about this and/or any other design-related goodness Host of 

Professionals from all mobile disciplines have pondered that there needs to be a better way to get the most out of their app development efforts. This applies to mobile product managers, UX and UI designers, app marketers, onboarding experts and conversion mavens of all colors and stripes.For too long, mobile professionals have relied on traditional mobile app analytics, which primarily focuses on key metrics, such as number of active users, drop-off rates, types of OS and devices being used as well as where geographically they are being used.These analytics solutions, like the one Google Analytics provides, emphasize numbers instead of reasons for those metrics. For example, you may identify that your app’s retention rate is low, but you will not be presented with the data that will allow you to understand why users aren’t coming back.This is where app user experience analytics takes center stage with its own analytic bag of features which enables app makers to take a deep dive into the UX and understand the ‘why’ behind the numbers.UX analytics, like the one At the core of app UX analytics are features you can use to discover the answers you need when it comes to optimizing your app. The two critical ones:They say seeing is believing, so I will bring a few real life scenarios of aspects of an app that can be refined, streamlined, and perfected to app stardom via the application of this ux analytics-centric philosophy.We subjected a new cooking app to UX analytics and we were able to identify hiccups when This is a good place to highlight why traditional mobile analytics might be good at giving you numbers, but that doesn’t give you a clear enough picture. With a drop off rate over 40% from the second screen, app makers such as this one need to know a bit more to get to the core of the problem.When going back to the user recordings, for example, we see that the “Next” button didn’t show up and users were tapping all over the screen with no response, hence frustrating users and causing friction. It led the app maker to fix the error on the onboarding screen and realize a significant decrease in drop offs.After getting users to download your app (a major accomplishment in itself), most importantly, you want them to stick around, and visit often. You take a look at your retention cohort analysis and see that nearly all users (over 90%) who launched the app for the first time in January came back in February with a severe decrease in March, when you launched a new version of your app. By analyzing the touch heatmaps, you notice that when users leave the app and return to their session, they swipe right on the login screen, but their gestures are unresponsive. Users are not interested to login again, so they are trying to bypass this screen in order to continue their session where they left off. By refining and allowing them to continue, you will see your Obviously, the more users you have retained, the more chances you have of converting them. However, just having a high retention rate doesn’t mean you will convert them. You need to deliver them an experience that says. YES. I must have this. Whether it be a product or service.In order to do that you need to analyze your user-based conversion funnels. You can watch videos of users who dropped from one of the steps in your funnel and gain an understanding as to why they didn’t proceed to the next step. It might be related, for example, to a slow screen loading time. Making adjustments and re-releasing you will be sure to increase your conversion rates and ROI.One of the most important things that app makers look at is LTV. How much value will a user bring me over the lifetime of him or her using the app? How much marketing spend do I need to allocate to acquire a user and does it make sense over the user’s lifetime. By using app UX analytics to identify the group of users who convert, you decide to reallocate your marketing spend in order to decrease the cost per customer acquisition (CAC). Furthermore, optimizing the UX in your app, will bring your users back to the app and increase their LTV.When using any type of in-app analytics, whether it be traditional or a UX tool, you must integrate the tool’s SDK into your app. This process normally only takes a couple of minutes. An app UX analytics solution doesn’t require to pre-define any events as it auto detects screens, buttons and user actions.When you launch your app, you stand at the beginning of a long road. As many app makers see, there could be a pot of gold waiting at the end of it. It is up to you to make it happen. Constantly optimizing your app from day one based on what your users need as well as your business goals is a primary way to make that happen.— — — — — — — — — — — — — —Appsee is a simple and powerful visual mobile analytics platform that enables you to measure, understand and improve the user experience in your mobile apps.

Below are the steps to be followed for a successful UX design:Empathy is the ability to walk in other’s shoes and understand their perspective. Assuming things based on your preconceived notions is the major stumbling block for a designer. Step out of the box and see the world from other’s perspective. A designer creates a framework for a great experience for his users. It goes without saying that if the framework is solid, great experience is a guaranteed result.Always think as sleepy and tired user. Would you click NEXT? An honest answer to this is the key to success!A popular adage goes on to say thatOnce you are done with figuring out the way different users think, decide for yourself which genre of the audience you want to attract. If you have a luxury cab app and you are focusing on impressing the school kids then perhaps you need to rethink.Imagine yourself as a school kid and try to convince yourself if you would use a luxury cab.Coming up new ideas every time might end up in hitting your head against a wall! This is the reason why brainstorming is so important. Go about brainstorming the way you feel it helps.Start with throwing the most random ideas on your writing padYou have all ingredients with you in place, now it’s time to cook! You now have to build a framework for the ideas churned out from the brainstorming session which as you know can be a herculean task. This is where Canvasflip comes to your rescue, helping you craft your idea into a beautiful piece of app!The prototypes you build should now undergo a feedback session! Sharing the app with a target audience is possibly the best method for testing the app you have designed. CanvasFlip provides you with a sharing platform. Based on the feedback keep making changes till you fix the perfect positioning of objects on the interface.In this case there will be only feedback, no failure! You are not going to last forever., Create something that will.. #CanvasFlip #JoinTheInnovation

اینجا چیزی نیستش خووو

In the user experience (UX) professional area, at the moment most of the jobs are in UX design, and most of the UX designers come from visual design, communication design, or graphic design backgrounds. As a result, employers usually expect UX designers to take care of traditional design work, and UX designers also enjoy immersing in crafting details, without thinking much about things other than beautiful design.UX should be more than that. It should be the partner of business. It should utilize user-centric methodologies to help a company make strategy decision. Why? Because companies exist to create profit, profit comes from users, and UX people know what the users are like and how to satisfy them. In that regard, UX designers should stop focusing only on the thin visual and functional layer of a website or application, and start to create the user experience that is aligned with business strategies.UX designers might disagree by now. “User experience shouldn’t be designed in flavor of business”, they would say. Actually, aligning UX with business benefits UX designers as well. Here are the two main benefits:By understanding things like business direction, priority of the products, profit structure, competitor situation and marketing plans, it would be much easier to make design decisions such as the role of the home page, or whether to lead users who need help to call centers or FAQ page.It also helps to prioritize the design elements, and focus on designing the experience that really matters. Otherwise, UX designers might end up keeping thinking up cool new ways to present the same old page.Unlike sales and marketing, the value a good user experience brings to the company is usually intangible. As a result, the importance of user experience tends to be ignored, especially when companies have a limited budget.Once UX work is connected with a company’s vision and business strategy, it not only is more comprehensible to management levels usually business people, but also shows that UX is highly relevant to the company.There are two pretty useful existing frameworks. One is a top down approach, another is from bottom up.Try to answer these questions in order: as a company, what are we now? What do we intend to do? How are we going to get there?To do so, you need to start from understanding a company’s vision and mission. Then, understand the company itself by analyzing the opportunities, threats, strengths and weakness. Based on those external and internal factors, set a goal and come up with a road map to reach the goal. After that, break the road map down into actionable steps. Among those steps, find opportunities where UX can make a difference and create impacts. Eventually help the company reach the goals by refining and designing its user experience strategy.In product companies, the road map could be replaced by product portfolios that can bring the company from current place to its desired position. The next step would be defining what the experience of each product should be, and then implementing it.This is also the way for project managers to manage the project strategically.In the bottom up approach, start from understanding the holistic user journey, the touch points and pain points users might go through, and then think about how each department in the company could work as a whole to make the experience seamless and enjoyable.Service blueprint is a good framework to use here. It is a grid with the phases and steps of time running along the horizontal axis. Along the vertical axis, on the other hand, lies three main agents that are related to the experience: users, touch points, and business.Start from mapping out the main phases throughout the journey users have with a company, product or service. Next, identify the possible touch points, as well as understand users’ needs, feelings, pain points and so on in each step. Since the holistic experience is being taken into consideration, the touch points should be more than website or app. This model provides a chance to look at the user experience from a broader perspective, and to think about how the experience in different channels (web, phone, store, print, face to face, etc.) affect each other.In the last step, define the role of each backstage units based on the user journey. The backstage includes all the functions, departments and organizations that are at the back-end of the experience. For example, customer service department, IT department, third party agency, etc. By mapping this out, you then will be able to determine what kind of backstage activities the company should have, and how each department should be designed in order to respond to users’ needs. That is the time when user experience makes an influence on the company’s structure.UX designers and UX team can largely expand their impacts on the company by developing a deeper understanding of the company’s business strategy and goals. Meanwhile, it is the UX designers’ responsibility to keep an open mind, and cooperate closer with people from business, marketing, and sales.User researcher and UX strategist worked in Singapore, Tokyo, Shanghai, Taipei and Vancouver. Now based in Seattle. 

Isn’t the phrase “UX team” ridiculous. It’s usually used to refer to visual/interaction designers (I actually kinda get where ‘ux designer’ came from). It suggests that users only care about button colours, whether we use drop-downs or type-aheads, and other things that, whilst important, are a tiny part of a service.I’m currently working in the Home Office as ‘Interaction design and Development lead’. It’s a step towards stopping the interaction design and research people being called “the UX team” because we’re As an interaction designer, there’s nothing better than being told you’ve made a thing easy to do. This is especially pleasing when it’s a complicated government process and the gratitude comes from a complete stranger on social media. It’s this way of measuring success that will help us get everybody bought in to creating a good user experience.We’re now evangelising about the user experience of our services to our technical community. We’ve only just started, but over the coming months we’ll be getting everybody more involved with UX and helping people understand the difference their role makes to our users. A system with good interaction design is nothing without good development, business analysis is nothing without decent interaction and genius data design is pointless without content which helps people answer questions easily.User stuff. Currently UK Gov, formerly Sky, Jaguar Land Rover, Apple, Ferrari, Sony, and some things that no longer exist. Ex digital teacher.

It was yet another day at work, burrowed inside slides and excel sheets, quietly nibbling away my body’s energy and my laptop’s virtual memory. It took me a second longer to notice my wife calling from home.“Can you please book an Ola Cab for me?” “There is no electricity at home and Ola App isn’t opening properly in 3G. I need to go to my Yoga Class.”.“I am in office”, I mildly protested. “I know. Can you help? I am getting late”?I breathed deep enough to make the necessary context switch from consulting work to home errands. I opened my Ola Cabs app in my Nexus 4. I turned on the battery guzzling Despite all the glorious tech press they’ve garnered, drooling over their torrential investments, I’ve found Ola’s app tedious to address I turned on the App. I noticed how, like every other time, the location was stuck at the previous location where I had booked the cab earlier. Now, wait! My eyes glinted with smile. Oh Yes! I want the location to This isn’t an one-off scenario. Operating in India, Ola should know (I earnestly hope they do) that when relatives or friends visit you from far away places, it becomes an act of cordiality, especially for older guests who aren’t comfortable with technology, to arrange for their transportation. I am surprised Ola hasn’t thought about this.(Today, in this digital age, it is natural toIn order to appreciate what Currently, the best of the brains in the industry are spending too much resources on persuasive technologies and too little on appropriate technologies. The ethical implications are huge. It is now implicitly assumed that great technologies have to be addictive to thrive and succeed.It isn’t enough to pass the responsibility of safe use to the users. Designers have a much larger role to play.Is it possible to design with a sense of humility that users and not designers themselves know what’s in their best interest?I leave you with this powerful quote that captures how we are becoming victims to our own toys of persuasion.Do consider recommending this post if you found it valuable. And, of course, feel free to connect I help clients build a powerful social context with their customers and employees. | I craft persuasive narratives.

Poster des annonces sur LinkedIn c’est cher, donc on s’est dit qu’il y avait de grandes chances que vous traîniez ici.L’agence Marcel est le fruit de la fusion entre un pure player digital (Publicis Net) et un hotshop créatif. La combinaison des deux agences a permis à la créativité de rencontrer la technique pour faire naître une agence bien staffée.Au sein d’une équipe de 4 personnes, vous serez amené à accompagner l’un des UX Designers de l’agence, jusqu’à ce que vous soyez suffisamment autonome pour vous voir confier vos propres projets.Vos tâches quotidiennes seront assez variées :Nous n’attendons pas de vous que vous soyez déjà un professionnel sur toutes ces tâches, mais la maîtrise de certains outils et livrables sera clairement un plus.Nous considérons les stages comme un apprentissage mutuel et nous attendrons de vous que vous apportiez votre propre touche.On aime bien garder nos stagiaires après, donc si vous êtes en Une première expérience (stage ou CDD) dans l’un des domaines suivants serait un plus :On attend de vos nouvelles, à bientôt !I was told there would be bacon. ☛ UX Designer at 

One of our favourite talks this year was by Kevin and Zack, who work on the Tumblr android app. These two guys who were clearly very passionate about their work on the android application, talked an enthused crowd through the link between design and animation — focusing on how we, as designers, can use the principles of animation pioneered by disney to give our apps an improved sense of reality. Likening our apps to on-screen characters, Kevin and Zack taught us how we can learn from the vast improvements in animation over the last 70 years and how we can apply the same principles to bring life to the micro-interactions within our apps.We were amazed at how simple some of these principles were. Tiny adjustments to the spacing of This talk ended with Kevin challenging the audience to design their next app with animation in mind — rather than as an afterthought; which is definitely something we will be considering!Jesse James Garrett is somewhat of a UX legend, after founding Adaptive Path — the company all UX consultancies aspire to be. Recently, however, Starting with a story from a recent UX conference, where he was approached in a toilet and interrogated It immediately became really clear that this was not a decision Adaptive Path took lightly, and in fact they had previously turned down a lot of offers from lots of other companies. The Capital One merge just seemed right. The opportunity Adaptive Path have sounds really exciting — being a ‘young’ bank in a world of financial old-timers, Capital One and Adaptive Path are now in the unique position where the idea of change is met with excitement and the phrase And thinking about it, what a great opportunity this is — the chance to come into a financial organisation and completely revolutionise their banking experience at all touchpoints: in-store to ATM, apps to bank statements; there’s certainly a great deal for Adaptive Path to get their teeth into and we’re really excited to see what Capital One begin to roll out over the coming months.It should also be noted that the whole of SXSW, it was clear that Capital One do appreciate the ‘legend status’ Adaptive Path have built in the UX community, and are ready to embrace a better banking experience — pivoting their SXSW campaign around #bankonux.Interestingly, this talk ended with Jesse simply stated —Being so famous for its live music heritage, you cant spend time in Austin without catching a live band or two — and being huge music fans we took the opportunity to catch a number of the live bands performing throughout the city. However, being UX consultants we couldn’t miss the chance to catch a discussion around the crossovers between UX and the music industry on SXSW’s This brought up some really interesting conversation surrounding what UX can learn from music (This talk also threw up one of my favourite UX quotes from the week — UX Connections is dedicated to knowledge-sharing for digital creatives, technologists and designers worldwide.

Я начал умышленно искать таких людей. Моя инициатива начала давать обратный выхлоп. Первым человеком, кто на реальном примере мне смог объяснить масштабы, глубину и ценность UX, был мой руководитель на основной работе. Он предельно понятно и доступно обозначил мне рамки, подкрепил реальными примерами на боевом проекте.Ну, вы, наверное, знаете то чувство, когда вас погружают во что-то новое, и вы понимаете, что это будет достаточно не просто и болезненно, но подогретый интерес уже бесполезно останавливать.Затем я попал на движуху IT Global Meetup. Страстная речь Миши Рыжикова и эффект массовости сыграл свою роль. Правда это мероприятия я провел в метаниях между фрон-енд докладами и UX, которые шли одновременно. Но я попал на доклад Никиты Ефимова, точнее на последние 10 минут. Он достаточно уверенно и умело оперировал разными понятиями. И меня сразу подкупило то, что он говорил. Помниться, я задал какой-то вопрос, который меня беспокоил, он был немного оторван от темы доклада, но публика включилась в обсуждение. Пошел активный диалог. Такая открытость и участие публики не могло не радовать. И меня все это подстегнуло копать дальше.Через некоторое время я уже сидел на курсе по UX от ITmine, который проводил Никита Ефимов. Это было логичное продолжение моей любознательности. Было массу причин попасть на этот курс. Никита был достаточно заметен. До того момента, как я попал на курс я уже слушал пару-тройку его докладов, расспрашивал на интересующие меня темы и получал предельно развернутые ответы с личными примерами и рассуждениями. Степень его погружённость в тему была заразительна.На занятиях я чувствовал себя «школьником». Планка была задана более чем достойная. Уроки были четко выстроены. Добиться такой ясности от UX я даже не рассчитывал, но это случалось из урока в урок. Плюс курсы были пропитаны коллаборативным подходом и заряжены «правильным» настроем.Публика была разнообразная. У всех разный бэкраунд и тип мышления. Но равнодушных не оставалось. Плюс такая смесь давала нужную концентрацию, и это позволяло удерживать внимание.К середине курса, мой верстальщеский мозг, окончательно подорвался. После привычки вырабатывать конкретные правила, UX начал казаться мне уж совсем размазанным. Хоть иногда и доставал всех своей «дотошностью», но вконец все успешно сложилось в единую систему.К тому же систематизированные уроки разбавлялись неформальными встречами в промежутках. Это была хорошая возможность скорректировать курс на волнующие темы по своему усмотрению, поделиться мыслями и спровоцировать активный диалог.Неотъемлемой частью курса была «домашка» с последующим фидбэком от преподавателя, к которой невозможно было отнестись халатно.После основательной подготовки просто необходимо было проверить себя на деле. И итоговая проверка на прочность была не детской. Нас распределили на боевые проекты. Мне довелось поработать на амбициозном стартапе Rating.VC. Подход стартапа, более ориентированного на запад, несколько отличался от того, к которому я привык. Но меня такой вызов только подзадорил и мы с командой взялись за дело. За месяц вне рабочего времени грандиозных дел не сделать, но выдать сверстанный адаптивный прототип все-таки удалось. Было здорово взаимодействовать с Александром Лифановым. Он охотно шел на встречу, обговаривая промежуточные этапы. Приятно было выполнить логический кусок работы и помочь команде проекта.Полное погружение реально удерживало меня пару месяцев в сосредоточенном состоянии. Для тех, кто собирается начать карьеру UX-ра это достаточно мощный толчок и если просветления, за относительно короткий срок, не достичь, то в сектантский UX-ский кружок, попасть вполне получится. А для тех кто, как и я хочет расширить свои интерфейсные силы — этот курс дает хорошую прокачку, системность и азарт продолжать дальше.UI Engineer. Design in the browser fanatic

I think it’s for retailer and consumers wanting to see the brand identity and all the fun ways you talk about an item. In the new world, it’s the online website that is the most important tool to communicate your brand. So if you do something that stands out it means a lot. I’m just a young brand, I’ve been around 4 years. It’s also a way of life, where people can see my evolution and how I think about these things. That’s why the old website is still there and we’re already working on the next one. The platform itself didn’t really change, it’s the interaction that changed. It also represents the changes you made in your collection, the changes you made as a person and this can be reflected in the design.I’m lucky that I work together with an Art director Daniel Sumarna so he’s the one who is responsible for everything. I told Daniel I needed a great way to tell my story. We work very closely together, we message and Skype all the time (Technology here can be compared to Media. If you go back to TV, nothing was dubbed in Dutch, so the level of English here is excellent. If you ask the average French person to speak English and then a Dutch person, there will be a big difference. Now if you compare this to the internet and how well you can adapt to that as it is mostly English. In terms of adapting, there has to be a language that everyone can speak, so you have to be open to this. It is not possible to capitalize on the internet if you don’t speak the language. It is a small country, where a lot of people respect how they do business.All my friends are designers and in the creative industry, and so it is very acceptable to always be looking at your phone, showing things, being socially connected. It would be strange if you showed up at a meeting without one. It has always been part of how we interact and socialize. For my profession it’s the best thing in the world because I can connect to people all around the world.I think after such a long period, there is a lot of expertise in the field. There is that return to wanting to make things in the old school way. Instead of looking backwards, I can talk more about the recent years that influenced me. There was a period where everyone wanted to make that heritage denim: hand made, small quantities, back to the old school way of making them. Then there was this shift, just like what is happening with food, where everyone wants to know the origin, how it was made, who it was made by. The whole consumer market both menswear and womenswear became more interested in this. This small period of heritage obsession, when everyone was wearing Redwings is what lead to this period now, to something that is really clean, simple to wear and not too stiff. It was almost a training period for people to become familiar again with how to properly make denim. This trend paved the way to value. It’s also about the latest technology when it comes to fabric. The credit should really go to these people creating new fabrics every season. It starts with them. It’s all about starting with a good base ingredient like with food.I travel a lot for my work and for leisure. As a result, I see this younger generation of Tumblr kids who sometimes have never been out of their country but who are very socially connected and are just looking online. If I would go to Portugal, France, the US and the Netherlands, and I look at this certain age group between 16 and 21, you can see that they wear almost exactly the same clothes and this is because of the internet! By witnessing this I can also create clothing that is appropriate for people in many different countries. Without the internet, my brand couldn’t even exist. How long would it have taken me in the past to become a successful brand without online presence?Creative Strategist  UX Designer, Global Nomad, K-pop Dancer.

So, we found a venue. We hired a DJ. We wrote a list of 200 people to invite. We printed 200 invitations. We hand wrote 200 addresses. We hand sealed 200 envelopes. We stuck 200 stamps on by hand. 200. I’m over it, honestly.There was a few nerves at UX Connections leading up to the party. We’ve never hosted anything on this scale before. Word of a few other industry parties on the same night left us wondering — what if no-one turns up!Thankfully, you did! And what a night it was!Merry Christmas!UX Connections is dedicated to knowledge-sharing for digital creatives, technologists and designers worldwide.

I’d say I’m a pretty low-maintenance UX designer, but man, UX tools are a You get the idea.Basically, the UX tool ecosystem started with Adobe (Coreldraw, anyone?), and has been sprouting new variants like weeds every year since (which is not necessarily a bad thing). Some transitions have made sense, like the move to vector or proportional design (who cares about pixels anymore anyway?), and the general slimming down of tools in reaction to Adobe’s everything-and-the-kitchen-sink approach, but overall things are still very much in flux. This means a few things for the average UX designer and what’s to come:This used to mean “generate CSS code”, like in the old days with Dreamweaver. However, this invariably actually means “generate code my developer will have to rewrite anyway”, so unless you’re a UX-designer-front-end-developer-Unicorn, this isn’t the right approach (sorry What I think this means is sitting at the friction points between the two roles, something Stability means being able to handle larger files, and not crashing at the drop of a hat. Gone are the days of setting up a script to auto-save an Illustrator or Fireworks file in case it crashed and was unable to save the data (which was the norm). Sketch does a great job of handling dozens of art boards, rarely crashing, and saving everything on the off-chance that it does go down.Optimizing for speed means building tools that make it easy to get going. This is old news, but still important: unless you’re an icon designer, pixels are going the way of the Dodo as pixel-independent resolutions take over. Every once in a great while you’ll need pixels to specify layouts and spacing at a specific screen size, but then everything is proportional. Thank god, because designing with pixel specificity for Android’s umpteen screen resolutions would be an absolute nightmare.At least for now, anyway. Can’t open a Sketch file in Photoshop? Fail. Need to buy a license to see a design? Fail again. Tools like Zeplin and Speaking of which:Even when a designer gets a tool dialed in, there still comes a moment when assets need to be shared with their team. If it’s just to share for feedback, a simple export or Invision prototype is fine, and easy enough to accomplish. However, most design tools ignore a very simple fact: I’ll be the first to admit that when it comes to animations, I’ve got a lot to learn. They’re something I always talk about early in a project…only to forget them until the end, by which point it’s a mad scramble to do even the basics. On top of that, until just a few years ago, “animations” meant simple, often purely linear movement: ease in, slide up, pop in. There wasn’t much magic to the whole thing, and it was mostly relegated to page-level animations. Boring.Nowadays it’s just the opposite: objects take on a life of their own as they expand, rotate, bounce, fade and, as with Surfer / cofounder at CodeFights.Startup thoughts from the CodeFights Crew

I Nonetheless, I figured it’s about time for me to write a status update. I’ll go through what I’ve learned thus far and some of the class assignments/projects.The first week was all about getting used to the course, meeting your mentor, and being introduced to UX Design.You learn what UX Design really is, how to think about design, and the different approaches to design, The focus for Week 2 is user research and personas. This was particularly fascinating for me because I’ve never done anything remotely like this.You really dive into the different ways to conduct research, and how to ask questions.You learn to take this user research and convert it into different personas for UX design purposes.This week is all about strategy — essentially the things to think about before you start all your prototyping and wire-framing.This means coming up with a navigation scheme (READ: menu), understanding how you want to display content, and recognizing the differences that will go into designing for different mediums (desktop, mobile, etc).After 3 weeks, we’re finally getting to the good stuff — prototyping.I’d say it’s rather self evident what this week covers, though it first starts with understanding decision making.All in all, I’m really enjoying the course. I’m learning a ton, and it’s been a lot of fun thinking about how to redesign Goodreads.I’m looking forward to the rest of the course.Product 

It really annoys me when people say:Er yes, yes I am a UX Designer, but I’m definitely not a UX Researcher.We need to start distinguishing between the 2 roles here. The same way people get obsessed with UX vs UI (don’t get me started). We need to be equally obsessed with UX Designer vs UX Researcher.Here’s the thing. UX is about designing for users so people put the responsibility of user testing on anyone with UX in their job title. I get it, I agree that we should be testing and validating our work against real users whenever humanly possible. But, I don’t agree that this should be a tick box exercise to validate your job description.I’m currently working on a travel app for a client. I also happen to love travelling. Since this is such a big passion of mine I’m naturally going to have shit loads of ideas on what I’d want out of a travel app and I’m probably going to have the same needs as some of our target audience. So when there’s a limited time and budget for me to create an awesome solution to a problem, would I prefer to waste that time getting hung up on user research or would I prefer to just get on with designing cool shit? Yup you know what I’d rather be doing.Related to the previous point, most of us are pretty invested in our creations. Whether intentional or not, we’re subconsciously going to be biased towards our ideas and how we see our designs. Testing our own creation is not as effective as getting an outsider to test it for you.To be fair UX Designers are hired to design shit hot user experiences. The decision to hire us is probably largely based on our previous experience and proven expertise. Some of us don’t feel we should have to constantly rationalise every design decision we make. There comes a point when you have to trust that we know what we’re doing. The same way you trust that a qualified, experienced pilot or surgeon know what they’re doing.Ultimately what I’m saying here is that UX research should be someone’s sole role and responsibility. We as UX Designers already have so much on our plates with balancing user needs, business requirements, best practice standards, platform guidelines, current trends and innovations. Half of us simply don’t have the time for validating every single design decision with user research and testing.The UX design process needs UX Researchers and we need to start talking about this as a standalone job role, not the sole responsibility of a UX Designer. And please lets stop treating user research as a tick box exercise.UX Designer, super passionate about all things digital, awesome music, my gorgeous doggie and seeing the world... overuses smileys :)

Väčšinou ide o online systém (napr. usertesting.com), kde zadáte testovacie úlohy, zvolíte demografiu želaných respondentov a do niekoľko hodín získate prvé videonahrávky s testovaním webu, ktoré sú pripravené na analýzu. Narozdiel od testovania v UX laboratóriu všetko prebieha automatizovane s minimálnym vstupom moderátora.Získať respondentov prostredníctvom napr. Možnosťi výberu však bývajú obmedzené. Napr. na Ostatné nástroje na remote testovanie, ako napr. Nevýhodou respondentov z Pri porovnaní cien je väčšinou jasným favoritom remote user testing. Na usertesting.com platíte 50 dolárov za nahrávku respondenta. Testovanie v laboratóriu, s celým servisom, väčšinou výjde na zopár tisíc eur.Väčšina remote testovacích nástrojov ponúka tzv. nemoderované testovanie — teda bez vstupu moderátora. Respondenti dostávajú úlohy postupne, prostredníctvom sofvéru, ktorá majú nainštalovaný na počítači. Kvôli nezaujatosti môže byť absencia moderátora výhodná, no pri nepochopení úlohy môžete skončiť tak, že dostanete 6 nahrávok respondentov a ani jeden neadresuje vaše hypotézy.Ak sa však rozhodujete robiť Ak potrebujete rýchlo overiť použiteľnosť rozhrania a nemáte poruke UX laboratórium, remote testing bude pre vás efektívny nástroj. Do pár hodín získate nahrávky, ktoré môžete začať analyzovať.Naopak, ak testovanie nechcete využiť len na validáciu, ale aj na exploráciu — hľadanie nových riešení, moderované testovanie v laboratóriu je interaktívnejšie a skúsený moderátor získa ďaleko viac používateľského insightu ako pri vzdialenom testovaní. Po dokončení testovania si dokonca môžete posedieť s respondentom a detailnejšie rozoberať komplikácie, s ktorými bojoval a spoločne hľadať riešenie.We are a User Experience studio with strong focus on user research and user testing. 

We are a hybrid of technology and biology; our incorporeal attachments to even simple technology make up the social and intellectual framework of our lives. My vision in the combination of my seemingly diverse majors is to develop and evolve the technological realm driven by the moments of engagement between people and products, and the ideas, emotions, and memories these moments create. Time is my medium. I aim to design experiences over time with real and measureable consequences. I seek to advance the science and art of the experienced environment, combining the physical and the virtual. My mission is to persuade, stimulate, inform, envision, entertain, and forecast events, influencing meaning and modifying human behavior. All of this lies within user experience and user interface design.This practice works across disciplines, creating a relevant integration between concepts, methods, and theories. My divergent fields of study, fine arts and communication, interweave and interlock to create an education in which design decisions are based on the needs and wants of users. Within fine arts, I have acquired a unique set of skills and resources to bring abstract ideas to fruition, from conception to delivery. Within the field of communication, I explored the intersection of media, entertainment, technology, and globalization. I learned to see images — and the world — critically, to raise difficult and provocative questions, to respond to — and create — art and culture in new and meaningful ways. I learned to manage the processes, nature, and consequences of existing and emerging media, to communicate through the progressive nature of technology. This thorough understanding of our increasingly image-based culture combined with a comprehension of the changing nature of communication in technological interactions enables me to create a rich and interactive experience and shape human-computer interaction.Fine arts and communication are in many ways very similar. A communicative event is often theorized as involving a As a graphic artist for a public safety software company, my work is seen and used by 9–1–1 public safety agencies across the United States and Mexico to help save people’s lives and homes, and to make our world a safer place. The intuitive user interface and user experience of my professional work create better response times and less costly emergency service, so that people can accomplish relatively complicated tasks. If the icons and graphical user interface I design can help a call center track an ambulance or locate a police unit even a split-second faster, it can mean the difference between life and death. This is why the tools of my education compel me to create a better medium for communication between people and computers.Arthur C. Clarke once said, “Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.” The enormously complex systems that influence each of our lives, from the black bricks we carry in our pockets to the flowering electronic landscape of interconnected networks we link to from our computers, constantly advance faster than our understanding. User interface and user experience enable individuals to manage and accomplish tasks in ways thought to be magical a decade ago. Since technology evolves at a rapid rate, people will constantly have to work with new systems — which makes intuitive human-computer interaction and design gain importance as we spiral faster and deeper into the technological and digital age. Although my undergraduate education at USC allows me to grapple with these interactions between people and products, I have so much more to learn and offer in the integration of design principles and technological advancement. User experience is dynamic, because it changes over time as circumstances change. I want to help drive the force between human and computer interaction.I owe my blessings to many people who helped guide me throughout my undergraduate years:Articles about me from my ‘SC days that made me blush:Check out my User Interface / User Experience Designer, Front-end Developer + Artist, balancing art, form + function, where each world informs the other. 

This article will look at how I believe martial arts principles can make you a better UX Practitioner and how the two connect.I’ve been practicing some kind of martial art for roughly 22 years. The last 18 years I centered on Wing Tsjun (Wing Tsun/Wing Chun/Ving Tsun) which has existed for about 300 years and is based mostly on the Taoist (Daoist) principle of Doesn’t that sound like the base principle of UX? Creating an experience for the user that is as natural and comfortable as possible without creating resistance to business needs… the perfect flow…So I’m going to base this article (the 1st of many?) on 4 basic Wing Tsjun principles:This is the base idea of almost anything we do in both Martial Arts and in UX. If the way/direction/idea is clear, move forward. It wouldn’t make sense to do it any other way.If you’re going to commit, than commit. If you’re going to try a new layout or colour on your website or app do it well and completely. Making the changes to a part without trying it throughout the site might mean that you have a site that isn’t coherent. For example, how strange is it for a user if we change the font used on the homepage, but the rest of the site is in another font. Aren’t we giving mixed messages?The next time you want to go ahead with a new concept or idea, try to make sure it won’t break the experience for the user as those users will be reticent to return for future experiences.Very often in certain Martial Sports we are taught to move in for an attack and if there is any kind of resistance to pull back and look for a new opening however in Wing Tsjun we are taught to stick to the opponent in order to be closer and ready for the opening we are looking for. Here Wing Tsjun uses a mix of sensitivity training and adaptability to be able to understand small shifts in the opponent’s movements.In a similar way, very often in UX projects we might meet with strong resistance to these “crazy liberal ideas” and in the beginning many of us want to go into a corner and lick our wounds. This is where we stick to our guns. We know UX could make the difference in the product or company so how do we convince stakeholders or later earn the confidence of the users during interviews?Stick to it! Calmly lay out the pro and cons of your argument, adapt your argument to the feedback you receive. Rather than answering “I don’t know” or “You should…” maybe something along the lines of “I understand your point of view what if we tried looking at from this angle?” or “I like the idea, what if we added…”These second phrases leave the conversation open to negotiation or adaptability. We have not entered the realm of absolutes, only a work in progress which can lead to new avenues that not even you had thought of yet which is even better!Gong back to the initial principle of In UX we have to adapt constantly. Almost every project has at least one curve ball up its sleeve even with all the planning and strategy. How often do we find difficulty with some team member or technical staff. Problems with system integrations or business models. The UX industry is fraught with obstacle courses.We UXers generally love our jobs despite all these setbacks and that’s because we’ve learnt to “roll with the punches”. We’ve learnt that if this avenue of action is shut, we just need to find another one. Sometimes it might mean more work or more complicated logistics, but for us the end result is what’s important: Did the user enjoy the experience and did that experience convert to business needs?So once again we return to adaptability and UX requires a lot of adaptability. The sooner you accept that and relish in it, chances are it’s going to become more enjoyable and rewarding.Many Martial Sports train this principle the same way. If my opponent starts retreating because he feels out classed or injured I shouldn’t give him the chance to retreat and regroup his senses. I should keep moving forward until I am sure the threat is over.This might seem a bit over zealous, but in truth it is to prevent future threat from your opponent. This could be as simple as just being sure they are knocked out so that you can leave or call the police for assistance.Reading the paragraphs above you might be thinking that I’m suggesting badgering clients or stakeholders until they have no choice but to listen or implement what we are demanding, but that isn’t what I am suggesting at all and I’ll use an example to illustrate what I understand from the above principleLet’s suppose we have a client or stakeholder that sits down with us for a meeting and we start explaining what UX is and how it should be implemented in their company. I’ve seen the look on people’s faces. At this point they look at you as if saying “Oh no, I’ve been captured by a religious cult nut. They are so going to try to convince me to convert”. They begin to retreat into their shell and you feel like you’ve lost them. Anything you say from that point onwards will probably sound luck crazy mumbo jumbo. Let’s face it, most of us UX evangelists are a bit obsessed with the “Word of UX” or whatever.The good news is that not all is lost! I usually like to take a millisecond to regroup my thoughts and try to change my angle. Sometimes I ask a series of questions to understand the company profile and objectives (If I haven’t until now). This gets the client communicating with us again and every client likes to talk about their business, it’s their pride and joy! It also helps us to adapt our “pitch” better, giving us the opportunity to present examples with in context of what can be done and some of the results that may be achieved.The main word I take from the principles above is hopefully enough of you will find this interesting enough to warrant a few more articles further exploring the connection between Martial Arts Principles and UX. Let me know if you agree or not with me and why. Let m know if you apply this thinking and how it has worked for you.All feedback is welcome!Experienced digital creative, UX designer and Art director - Im a problem solver || Co-founder of 

Another point in the discussion about Apple changing Aproach forwards UX. The ecosystem always was so great and now it’s starting to crumble. I mean, I was always impressed by how every single piece of puzzle fit great in its place. Using Apple software was always so intuitive and easy… And now? yeah…Senior Web Designer at GOG.com. Freelance product designer, art director and founder at Pixology. Music and typo lover. Gamer. 

Group work has its ups and downs. There is nothing like bringing multiple creative minds together, brainstorming, and coming up with unique, collaborative ideas.There is also nothing more bothersome than disagreeing, feeling disconnected to your partners, and having to abandon designs you are attached to in order to please them (which, eventually, becomes better for the user- it’s just hard to understand at the time).It’s a good thing my group  I were able to get through our disagreements, but I have to say, it did take some work.…We survived! There were some frustrating moments, but once we applied these findings, our outcome was epic.But, we did some user testing, design studio, research  strategy, and eventually…← It becameThis is just one of many of the pages we designed for our prototype. It’s not as low-fi as the sketch, but it’s not high-fidelity either.I know there is still a long way to go (we only had two weeks total), but I am confident in our outcome and truly believe that without the principles I mentioned above, we would have continued with the “EW.BLECH.YUCK” throughout.Sadiya loves to go to local events frequently with friends.Have fun, Sadiya! We hope we made this process for you an easy one!UX Design student at General Assembly in Santa Monica, CA.

Como muchos de ustedes saben, hace un tiempo estoy girando por diferentes eventos dando charlas sobre el apasionante mundo de la experiencia de usuario.Este mes de octubre tengo varios eventos apuntados, algunos públicos otros no. Les dejo la agenda para los que estén interesados en venir a compartir conocimientos.Quiero dar las gracias a todas las entidades y organizaciones por confiar en mi para participar en sus eventos. :)Arranco el mes junto a mi compañero de GDG Juan Irungaray, impartiendo una charla sobre como mejorar la experiencia de usuario en app sobre la plataforma de Android. Mi compañero hablara de otros aspectos que son importante integrar del lado del desarrollo, para realizar mejores aplicaciones.Este evento es en Google Argentina, lamentablemente es cerrado, pero seguro compartiremos la presentación para los que estén interesados en saber mas sobre estos temas.El en marco de la Semana del #CoWorking, Este evento es completamente gratuito y abierto para todos. Inscríbanse en el link que les deje arriba.Tengo la suerte de dar una charla sobre conceptos de Experiencia de usuario en Montevideo, donde también participan mis compañeros: Matias Molinas (GDG Santa Fe - Google developer Expert de Android) y Nicolas Bortolotti Google Program Manager.Este evento es gratuito, así que espero ver a muchas personas de la región e intercambiar opiniones sobre las diferentes charlas.!Último, por ahora! en nuestra casa, con todos los chicos del Google Developer Groups Buenos Aires. Estaremos disfrutando de nuestro evento mas importante del año con un desfile de googlers y gente importante dentro del mundo del desarrollo web. Nuevamente estaré charlando sobre UX para humanos. Aún no abrimos el registro, pero estén atentos. El evento es gratuito y se llena el cupo rápido.Espero verlos en alguno de estos eventos. Como siempre sigo desarrollando con mi célula de trabajo Desarrollador, diseñador, Owner Coood.es, streamer #MACLive y Manager del Google Developer Group Arg.

It was about 2 years ago when Bobby first mentioned the concept of “UX” to me. It was our third class together in a design program where I was pursuing a “digital graphics and web design” certificate.Bobby then advised me that I should take a class on “UX/UI” by a teacher named Bob. When I looked at my course map, “UX/UI” and “Information Design” was not in my plan, and would have veered me away from completing my certificate program, so I politely declined. However, as I asked other students who have taken Bob’s class about it, a certain joy and excitement appeared on their faces and voices as one would have after exploring a hidden cave and discovering ancient petroglyphs.After doing some research on what the hell “UX” or “UI” or “Information Design” was, I decided to enroll in the class. I navigated through my college’s terrible online enrollment process and soon discovered that the class was full. I realized I would have to personally crash the course on the first day, get a signature, and quickly process my enrollment before the main office closed. Ugh.So, after a full day of teaching my Kindergarteners, I parked my car at the local train station and commuted to class. I stopped by the main office to pick up an enrollment form, and they advised me to be quick since there were 2 other names ahead of mine on the waitlist. I navigate to a classroom where a teacher was lecturing and opened the door.I rush for the door and hear a brief chuckle as the door shut behind me. It was at this point, when I started panicking.Then, I peered through another classroom window, scoping out the scene for essential set up: Fairly “hip” audience (check!) and techie teacher with laptop(check!).Soon after that, to help me understand the petroglyphs of the UX/UI world, I joined the Twitter world as a way to broaden my reach for design information without having to compromise my skills and to also quench my thirst for information and access.As I learned the ropes and social norms of Twitter, I discovered that certain words, phrases and articles could be really meaningful or condescending depending on how I was feeling that day, how that person was feeling that day or just plain algorithmic randomness.Starting Twitter is a bit of a lonely time. It’s a time when you are forced to label yourself, your tweets don’t get acknowledged, you blindly follow people, brands, bands and organizations that reflect who you are, who you want to be, and where you are currently.You learn to block people who you feel are attacking your ideals or your life choices, you over favorite tweets of people you adore, then you stumble upon people who seem to reflect and tweet what you are thinking. It is then, you meet an influencer.Now that I’ve introduced, Bob, Bobby and Bobbison, here are some UX life lessons I’ve learned from them (so far).Stay productive.From your faithful follower,Joyce Aidi@innovativejuiceInformation Forager + Visual  Experience Designer + Elementary Teacher

Mas o objetivo é sempre o mesmo:Comunicar de forma clara e sem espaço para dúvidas como determinada interface deve funcionar — incluindo aspectos como hierarquia de informação, conteúdo, layout, funcionalidade, animações, linguagem visual, entre outros.Apesar das opções de ferramentas serem muitas, sempre costumo avaliar cada uma delas sob alguns critérios que considero essenciais para uma ferramenta de design para os dias atuais. Não me refiro a pequenas funcionalidades como “habilidade de exportar em PDF” ou “facilidade de compartilhar um link com alguém”; para essas coisas sempre existe uma forma de contornar. Refiro-me a critérios um pouco mais estratégicos — e listei alguns deles abaixo para compartilhar com vocês.O processo de desenvolvimento de produtos digitais está cada vez mais conectado. Existem ferramentas que são completíssimas (Photoshop, Framer.js), mas que possuem uma curva de aprendizado muito grande. Em uma época onde um mesmo Designer acaba precisando saber usar pelo menos meia dúzia dessas ferramentas, é importante garantir que todas elas estejam contribuindo para a produtividade do time — e não desacelerando o processo por puro preciosismo ou complicações desnecessárias.Cada vez mais estamos vendo processos e metodologias de desenvolvimento ágeis e híbridos. Existe muita gente envolvida no projeto. Dentro de casa: os designers, redatores, UXers, desenvolvedores, gerentes de projeto — cada um com um computador diferente, acessando o documento de diferentes contextos e com diferentes objetivos em mente. Quando passa para o lado do cliente, então, nem se fala. A maioria dos meus clientes usa Internet Explorer em um PC da Dell.Com o design responsivo dominando cada vez mais a web (e também os apps A busca pela ferramenta perfeita vai continuar existindo. O que está mudando é o fato de que não existe apenas uma resposta correta — existem várias. Cabe ao designer (ou ao gestor do time de design) considerar as ferramentas certas para cada ocasião e garantir que elas atendam aos requisitos do projeto, às configurações do time e aos diversos contextos em que o trabalho será compartilhado.Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

This makes me more determined and passionate about UX and the general benevolence of potentially life saving apps. Thank you for sharing this story.

So I get that as UX designers we must be empathetic to both internal and external customers. But what happened with the 4 things you identified in the Ad unit study? Did it turn out that they were truly insignificant with regard to the ad performance? Were you too busy transitioning into a new position to have the time to integrate those suggestions? I’m assuming you were doing an effective job as a UX researcher and making recommendations based on quantifiable data that you expected would positively effect advertising ROI. How would this change in light of your change in position?

A few months ago we were introduced to the wonderful So if you like meeting talented people, eating pizza and drinking beer please please sign up on the UX Stories London’s Our presentation is a closely guarded secret, but we’re bursting at seams at the prospect of hearing from fellow presenters Jonny Burch of We look forward to seeing you there!UI  UX Designer Space Ape Games responsible for Samurai Siege and Rival Kingdoms.Thoughts on Experience Design from a lively games studio in Soho, London

When I first saw Pinterest, it was a shock to my system.At first, I thought there was too much, but I I quickly realized I could scan many photos at once. Somehow, the layout flowed.Pinterest uses our good old friend See Gestalt Theory in actionSimilarity — Although the photos are radically different, they are contained in a rectangular frame. They also share the same format: photo on top, byline and small profile photo. The consistent shape creates order.Continuation — To create continuation, Pinterest takes advantage of a vertical layout. The photos are vertically staggered so one image is always higher than the next. This keeps your eye leading down where the endless content continues to reload every time you scroll.Proximity — The photos are all very close together, creating another reason your mind groups them together.Recently, Tumblr has tried to adapt to Pinterest’s new UX. They use a consistent square shape so the eye groups the images. In addition, they have one large photo alternating from left to right to keep your eye flowing down the page. The photos on Tumblr give enough variety to keep the scanner entertained.Twitter also uses some of the same basic concepts as the other sites, but it is text-driven. In this case, each post has it’s own line so each tweet can be read one at a time. This layout works because the length of tweets is so short that people can still scan quickly.Places where this UX does not work is on websites with many mediums of content. I keep seeing these sites show up in my CSS gallery feeds. They combine, photo, video, text stories etc. on the page. At this point, I’m just having sensory overload and can’t take in anything on the page. Unlike Pinterest, they do not keep the consistency of shape to keep the design clear.Other sites such as Dribbble are still using this design, but they haven’t quite nailed the concept. Pagers kill the whole idea. People do not want to wait for page loads, nor should they have too. Going to a new page temporarily ends the viewing experience. As people get used to auto-loaded images and content, their patience will be quickly gone for the old way of pagers.Another interesting place to see this UX is for shopping. Etsy has taken on the new design. Brands will have to question whether Pinterest’s UX works best to show their products. If it is a formal furniture store, they may want to stay with a wide shot of the furniture with consistent photo sizes.The next player to take on the new UX needs to be search engines. The image search would great improve with vertically staggered images instead of the flat rectangles that are harder to read. I think it is only a matter of time before this happens.Close, but no cigar.Bing is beginning to take this approach, but is using a varying horizontal width. I do not think this is as effective for continuation as the vertical design.Pinterest has opened people’s eyes to the possibilities of using image display as a creative endeavor. I look forward to seeing what new ways we view content.Product Designer. Past 

One of the biggest challenges that I’ve been dealing with is the multitude of tools required to build a proper UX wireframe and Design. We start with one tool, design in another, prototype in another, then back to fixing designs …. the loop is endless until a project is complete.Designers have been craving a tool that can handle creating simple wireframes all the way up to working with the design of complex prototypes in an all in one package. It seems that Adobe has been listening and has come up with a good possibility.The new program is called Project Comet. They are saying that it is a complete solution UX design. The tool is a desktop app that includes companion mobile app. Wireframing, design, prototyping, and live viewing all in one package.Check it out..This really looks like the tool that we have been craving for both web and app design.Here’s a view of the prototyping workflow.Are you a designer? What are your thoughts on this?Here’s the link to learn more from Adobe’s websiteThanks for reading!JP The Design Guy

Many of the our team members and the students we mentor at Jinius Creatives goes to or graduated from OCAD University. So it isn’t surprising that we selected redesigning OCADU’s student websites as our side project.To start our project, we did a mock shareholder meeting. I assigned myself as a major shareholder from OCAD U, and the rest as either designers or a student representative. Through the meeting, we set our goals and limitations of the project as the following:Goals: Redesign OCAD University’s student websites, so thatLimitations: Cannot involve the purchase or development of a whole new suite of web platforms. The redesign must be able to be implemented using basic web technologies (HTML, CSS, Javascript) within the current web platform OCADU uses.*Afterwards, we ran a survey with OCADU students and collected a total of 60 responses. The n-count isn’t large enough to draw conclusions, but here are some of the findings from the survey:Regarding the first finding, it is hard to tell whether students do not wish to use handheld devices to access the websites, or they do not do so because the websites are not optimized for mobile experience. However, we felt that the mobile usage is too low to justify focusing on the mobile versions of the sites. As a tentative measure, OCADU could increase user engagement and satisfaction on mobile devices by providing an easy way to forward messages from both the student email account and Canvas inbox account to their private email accounts.From the second finding, it is apparent that the flow of websites should be changed. Currently, MyOCADU is set up as the forefront page. It has all the links to other student resources, including the Canvas. However, it would be much more convenient if Canvas was set as the main site as it is the site that students frequent the most. Thus we concluded that the focus of our project to be reducing the steps students have to go through to arrive at the resource they need.To begin the actual redesign process, we took a look into the current Notable changes to the Information Architecture are the following:With this, our team mocked up the redesign of OCADU’s student websites using Unfortunately, we were only able to run short usability tests with a handful of OCADU students. The general consensus was that the redesign made accessing relevant information much easier. Navigating between the websites took less clicks, yet the changes weren’t too big to throw them off.That concludes our Spring side project. Our limited time and resource lead us thus far, but it would be great to revisit at a later date. Thank you for reading.

I was reading Leah Buley’s ‘The User Experience Team of One’ when it struck me just how broad the world of UX is. I mean, obviously there are many different components and UX agencies often break teams in to three sections in practice — but people can come from dozens of industries and find a home in the world of User Experience design. Leah cites a huge variety of backgrounds which are suitable for a jump into UX and it made me think of my own experience and about the fact that the term User Experience is so broad that it fails to explain UXers’ skillsets.So as you can see I’m coming to UX from an atypical position also, but it’s a sensible* journey; my marketing background brings with it research knowledge, creative problem solving and communication/presentation abilities. My BPI days highlight strategic thinking, project management. And my personality shows I’m interested in finding a human centric solution. While I bring little technical ability to the table, I am quite well rounded with the conceptual / problem solving aspects of UX.Added to this the fact that I recently relocated from Ireland to Chicago for an intensive UX apprenticeship programme, where I got to learn the principals of design before working in an agency setting for three months. I have since returned to Ireland and have notched further UX experience under my belt, this time as a contractor.The thing is, UX and UI are inextricably linked and recruiters don’t have the time to be reviewing my work experience and background to figure out if I am the type of UX expert this company requires.MyUXResume is a side project which aims to create a conversation around this very topic. Users can log on to the website and self-score themselves against 14 different UX skills. This creates a standardised badge which UXers can display to communicate what type of UX skills they possess (and which they don’t).The conversations have really sparked an incredibly interesting debate with some claiming that a UXer worth their salt should be highly skilled in UI design. Others have stated that the benefits for such a tool lie more in the employers’ court, asking why would they want to point out where they lack experience. For some, the scorecards raise the bigger issue of whether or not there is any merit in arbitrarily self scoring your abilities — as the results can be influenced more by personality than abilityIf the cards take off, they could become a great way to match candidates with suitable roles, and if it never reaches that stage it is still creating a talking point within the community about what abilities are valued and about the perception/ recruitment issues faced by the industry, and if nothing else then that’s a pretty awesome result.User Experience Designer. Co-Founder 

I began the week with wide eyes open, excited about design. Later excited and exhausted about the ground we covered in class the short 4-day week. We went from class intros to conducting user interviews, sketching, prototyping and storyboarding and then …… drum roll…. the first assignment. Being out of practice a bit, I spent a while noodling over the information looking at the best approach and well just plain procrastinating.I used my skill as a photographer to document ever step of the way, knowing that I would use the photos or quotes in it the final presentation. I used my storytelling skills. I used my interview skills asking open-ended questions came natural and easy. Translating the answers into user friendly digtal changes that was a challenge. Quieting your own wants or ideas and listening to the user was still another challenge.Falling back on some of the user research classes I had taken in graduate school was helpful. I dusted off The senseless little stick figure that the professor drew on the board at the begining of every class was starting to make sense. essentially I was looking for a technology solution to help Tobias ( the stick figure, user ) to bridge the gap of not knowing what media he had consumed.The journey continues a tad rocky at first but I see the light at the end of the road.UXer, visual journalist, educator, multimedia expert, former director of photography 

Congrats! You landed an interview for a user experience (UX) position. Now get ready to interview them right back and listen for these 5 key things that you must walk out of your interview knowing.Sometimes an interviewer will give you some of this information in their introduction/about the team spiel, but if she doesn’t, it’s in your best interest to find out the answers to these questions before you make a decision to take a job.Because, depending on the answers, these things can make your job infinitely harder or much easier.In a smaller organization (like a startup or a company with less than 50 employees or so), some people may handle multiple UX roles. But the larger an organization gets, the more important it is to have at least one, and often more than one, person representing each of the UX roles.The roles that you’re looking for are content strategy (not to be confused with copywriting), user research and testing, information architecture (IA), interaction design (ID) — sometimes ID and IA overlap — visual or graphic design, copywriting, front end development, and backend development/engineering (don’t worry, they’ll always have those last two — it’s the other ones that get missed sometimes and that you really need to worry about). You probably also want to make sure they’re concerned about accessibility, too, even if they don’t have a specific person in that role.Other peripheral roles that are key but not necessarily part of the UX team are business analysts, project managers, product owners, and product managers. Again, like in UX, the product team could have some role overlap, but the larger the organization, the less overlap there should be.One way to find some of this information is to poke around on LinkedIn. While that won’t always give you the full picture, at least you’ll have an idea. It’s still worth asking in the interview, though, especially if they don’t volunteer the information.Another thing to note here is what’s the title of the highest ranking UXer in the organization? That can (sometimes) tell you how important UX is to the company. If they’ve got a UX director or VP of UX, you’re probably good. If they’ve only got UX managers, or worse, no one with UX in their title at all, you might be dealing with an organization that either doesn’t value UX or thinks UX is important but hasn’t yet given it a seat at the table with the rest of the adults (i.e., finance, marketing, human resources, etc.).In addition to roles, you want to find out how the teams are structured — is it by product line or feature type, or is it more of an agency style where everyone works on anything based on their availability, or some combination of the two? One isn’t necessarily better than the other, but whatever it is, the teams should have some kind of structure and project management overseeing them so things remain organized and goals and timelines are clear.Here’s where you could also ask them what kind of software and tools they’re using (and how often). Tools like UXPin and InVision will tell you there’s probably some collaboration happening. Other things like Sketch or Omnigraffle may tell you that they’re not necessarily creating high-fidelity (and often unnecessary) Photoshop mockups. Also, pens, paper, post-its and whiteboards. All good things. If they mention wireframing with PowerPoint…well, that’s probably not good.While you’re discussing the design process, ask if they have a UI kit or style guide. They should. It makes life much easier. And find out if they’re creating prototypes — low fidelity, high fidelity, clickable screenshots — to test before launching into full-blown code. Again, they should be. It’s much cheaper to test a prototype and fix what’s wrong from there than it is to find out something is massively wrong after you’ve already coded and launched.And lastly, ask about research tools. They don’t have to have the biggest and fanciest ones (i.e., UserZoom, Morae, or Tobii), but they should have something. Some of the less expensive ones are Optimal Workshop, UserTesting (depending on your plan), Crazy Egg, Survey Monkey, and Optimizely, among others. The tools they’re using should also give way to a conversation about research and testing methods. It should be noted, you can do a lot of decent research without a lot of tools, but the more complex the product, the more tools you’ll likely want to have.So that was a little more than one question there, but all important information.They should not be prioritizing products and features like a kid does with his Christmas wishlist. You are awesome because you’re a UX designer, but you are not Santa Claus and you don’t have magical elves and flying reindeer to assist you. No one is getting a purple unicorn for Christmas. Most products and features should be largely rooted in reality, even if they are brand new.There should be some kind of project management tool, software, or process for vetting ideas and requests that flows through the product and UX team. The UX team, since they’re so close to the user thanks to all of that research and testing, should also have a large part in prioritizing what comes next for the products.Then figure out if her management style jives with your work style. This will probably vary from person-to-person, although in general you probably don’t want a manager who rages when she doesn’t get her way or who doesn’t help the team move forward and get them the things they need to be successful.So there is it. A brief, but important, list of things you need to know before taking on your next UX gig. While there aren’t necessarily “right” answers to many of the above questions, there are certainly better answers than others for keeping stress levels low, productivity high, and clients happy. And the answers you get will help you decide if the company is right for you. Only you can determine your threshold for lack of process or lack of resources and where your trade-offs are, but no matter what, being informed is key to making sure your next job is the right fit for you.user experience | content strategy | visual design | copywriting | running christineesoldo.com | intotheglimmer.com

The design of a mobile news aggregator app was the first assigned project when I studied in the UXDI (User Experience Design Immersive) program at General Assembly in the Fall 2015. It was also the very first user experience project I’d done. We had 2 1/2 day to work on the project. The ultimate goal was to present to the class my design idea with user research, iteration, usability testing, and a working prototype. Time was limited to 5 minutes and approximatly 10 slides.Naming a product or any kind of business idea is one of the important tasks for business success. The most efficient name should be on point the same time marketable. It should be easy to remember as well.In the beginning, I named it “One of the user research methods is user interview. According to Rashida White, UX designer, and also one of my instructors, 5 user interviews should be enough for basic user data collection. I conducted 7 interviews from my class because interview subjects were readily available and it was convenient.Preparation is important. User interviews are a great way to get users’s points of view on the products they use and to find out the product problems and demands. I came up with the following questions.“I like to save the interesting articles to read them later.”“I like to know the estimated time to read the article.” “Trusted publisher is important to me.” After I collected the data from the interviews I conducted, I used affinity mapping and one-on-one survey to analyze my interview findings.From my interviews, I was able to identify a common demand between the users, which are to have bookmark function, to make it easy to navigate bookmarked articles, and present the length of reading time for reference.Before I sketched out my design idea on paper, I had this vision of wanting to make this news app a very simple app that focuses on easy navigation, and to serve the purpose of bookmarking articles. I wished to implement a few other demands, such as to show the publisher of the articles, categorize articles by topic, a reading time indicator, refresh button on feed page and listing pages, a sharing and favorites articles button, a search button, and also a comment section for opinions.Based on the feedback on the preliminary design sketches, I eliminated the “Sign Up” page. Most users don’t like to sign up for accounts when news browsing. Some didn’t understand what the “thumb up” buttons for, which I later changed to a “star” symbol to represent bookmarking or saving an article. On the second iteration, I refined the sketches closer to what users demanded. I also did a survey on a few icon buttons to see if users understood their meaning. Surprisingly, the few users I tested knew exactly what those icons mean.Between iteration 2 and 3, I made a live prototype to have users test the app. I tested it with 4 users. They all had positive feedback. Some suggested a menu button on the “saved list” page as well as on other pages; some liked it the way it was. On iteration 3, I was able to cover all the suggestions from my interviews and preliminary testings.Off to final testing. The methods I used were “Hug method” and one-on-one testing.The result came out positive. Click There are a few things that I would like to do to further develop the app.Throughout the process from user interviews to a live prototype to presentation in front of 23 people, I’ve learned a great deal on the user experience design process. Knowing when to ask the right questions is important on interviews. Making the interviewees feel comfortable is the easiest way to get more data information. The friendlier I was, the more detail the interviewees would share. I’ve also found that doing a lot more user testing before the final detail sketches could save a lot of time. I’ve made a mistake of spending a decent amount of time sketching the preliminary sketches, and ended up not using them. Last but not least, knowing how to use software programs efficiently could save a lot of time as well, such as learning to use Keynotes, to use projector connection and how to switch back and forth between Keynotes and the web browser when presenting. Technical issues could be crucial when presenting a product especially when time is limited.Design stuff for living. an UX designer, a graphic designer, a home fashion designer, a rock climber, a whisky drinker

Companies are starting to realise the importance of User Experience (UX), not only in the products that they make for their customers, but also in the systems that they use internally. Users are questioning why the experiences they have on their own devices are often far superior to those of their business systems. Poor user experience in business systems results in a loss of productivity, demoralised workers, and ultimately a loss of competitiveness.A User Experience Centre of Excellence is a team that is responsible for making sure that the software that a company procures, produces and uses meets the requirements of its users as well as possible. This means that software anticipates users’ needs, supports and eases their workflows, and offers solutions to problems rather than being a problem itself. It seeks to minimise training costs, minimise repetitive and laborious work, and maximise the time that users can spend doing human things such as decision making, analysis and innovation.Software development is an expensive business. Recent research suggests that over half of large software projects suffer from cost overruns, and of those projects the average cost overrun is 45% of the total budget. 17% of large projects have overruns that threaten the very existence of the company.Of the large IT projects, 13% of the cost overruns were caused by “Missing Focus”, defined as unclear objectives or lack of business focus. This means that on average, every software project with a budget over $15m, missing focus causes a $1.6m overspend. In other words, a lack of clear requirements or goals makes software 10% more expensive than it should be. That equates to a $33.5 Billion overspend worldwide this year in due to poor definition of requirements.The primary goal of UX is to create software that meets both the requirements of the user and the business. This is attained through better definition of the requirements by using research, better communications of the requirements through visual design, validation of visual requirements, and ongoing support through the development to ensure those requirements are met. Good UX practices can save organisations from these cost overruns, dramatically improve the quality of software tools available to employees, and improve productivity.A Centre of Excellence (CoE) is a group of specialist practitioners that User Experience (UX) is a term that refers to the practice of creating software that is well formed. Broadly, this practice involves the following activities to be carried out during the development of software:UX involves elements of art, technology and science. It is important that people with backgrounds in all of these disciplines are involved in a UX centre of excellence. This includes graphic designers, industrial designers, web designers, software engineers, computer scientists, ergonomists, psychologists and anthropologists. While it is not necessary for everyone to have a background or qualifications in these professions, the skillsets that such individuals bring to a team are valuable and highly relevant to the process of UX.The team can be collocated or remote, but it is important that every member is willing, engaged and motivated to carry out the activities as set out above. On top of being a role model, the team should actively promote UX techniques, tools and practices to all of those involved in the software development process.It is necessary to define the notion of ‘well formed’. There is no hard and fast set of rules that define ‘well formed’, since best practice is continually evolving. A ‘good’ user experience is relative to previous points of reference. However, for the purposes of this document, we can envision the notion of well-formed software as a hierarchy of outcomes:All of these outcomes are desirable, but they are ordered in a hierarchy:Software UX exists because the historical pattern of software development has been to merely accept incremental improvements in efficiency. Great user experience has become a selling point for consumer devices and software, but the same level of care and attention to detail is not yet pervasive in business applications. This is starting to become the case, and great UX has become a competitive advantage that few businesses can afford to ignore.Great UX can result in greater productivity, but it can also improve the morale of staff, make a business a better place to work, and free up time to devote to innovation. It should be the commitment of a UX centre of excellence to strive for all this, through the application of best UX practices.At pebble {code} we have been working with global organisations to create their own UX centres of excellence. The process requires commitment, energy, and a great deal of real-world expertise in embedding UX into a busy and mature IT landscape. In brief, the roll out needs a set of best practices to which the company wishes to adhere, and a staged plan for the implementation of those best practices. Here I give a summary of what, in our view, these should consist of. Further information is available in our white paper, which you can request from A Centre of Excellence for UX should work to infuse UX best practices across the organisation. It should be able to provide guidance to practitioners that will allow them to take on UX practices at any stage of the product life cycle. Above all, processes and advice should focus on pragmatism. It is very rare that extensive resources are available for formative UX work, and while we can appreciate what the ‘ideal’ scenario would look like, practitioners should be aware of what can be sacrificed whilst minimising risk to the success of a project.In the view of pebble {code}, the components of best practices for a UX Centre of Excellence are:We envision a staged rollout of the UX CoE. This will involve 7 stages:A specific function dedicated to UX is becoming increasingly indispensable for medium and large businesses. As digital transformation becomes pervasive, there is now no excuse for not providing excellent software for all employees. If a business does not provide good UX, not only will their customers vote with their feet, but also their employees.If you would like to discuss the ideas in this article further, do not hesitate to get in touch, either on twitter @pebblecode or @johnmildinhall or via email: Creative Director at pebble {code} in Vauxhall, London. Design, Ergonomics, Product Development, UX, Research, Neuropsychology and Data Visualisation.

I have long wondered about best practices for writing “UX reports”.Mainly, because when I was actually doing UX for the enterprise, there was no effing need for one.I stand by the idea that “UX” is a workhorse. It isn’t a showpiece.Its true value is seen when So, back When I moved to an agency…That was when I got asked to make a “UX presentation”. Which, for the life of me, really stumped me for an afternoon.If you look online, there are many, many, many posts on “In corporate, I made internal clients sign off user stories, message hierarchy and wireframes — But, in an ad agency, the needs were slightly different. Agency clients were used to having deliverables presented (“pitched”) up front as the expression of a “big idea” — even before a project contract was signed.Well, personal opinions about presenting “A standout online article that I found useful as inspiration for presenting work [since I’m a UX researcher], was the amazing I was quite impressed by a recent case study from Jan Chipchase’s I look forward to So, an Interesting because this is where I get to see my design idols strut their stuff.(It’s also where I see whether UX is different from — or getting eerily close to — digital marketing and advertising, when presenting accomplishments.)Also by Basically a PDF of the stages and findings that the project went through, from brief and research to design studies. A more classic portfolio case.They actually presented a similar flow of process and features, as the Huge case study (which is coming up next), but the visually dramatic subject matter of the site and the really glossy way they presented the interaction design are just…ugh.(ugh, Like what you’d expect from a UX case study, it highlights “UX”-y steps in the project, like prototype testing.To be honest, my favorite one was Mailchimp’s. As a UX and design researcher. Without bells and whistles, they connected a need to a useful product. Which to me, is what UX essentially is.Method’s wins for innovation, though. It’s a unique product, for a unique need, made in a unique way (workshop prop in an IXDA talk).I honestly don’t know what the judges will look for. But I do agree with last year’s results (that Work  Co was a gamechanger). So let’s see what happens this year.This was useful for me because I got to see how big agencies and global awards bodies measure and “valuate” user experience impact. To be honest, I actually liked the Interesting things to consider when creating our own “reports”.Researcher and data analyst who works for the content and design community. Often called an experience designer. My UI screenshot habit: screenshotcrazy.tumblr

These steps should be familiar:Still there? Still overwhelmed? So was I. Adam’s words of advice:Adam is just one point of view. Here are others that he recommended:Matias Corea’s “6 Steps to Creating a Knockout Online Portfolio” Mary Wharmby’s “Great UX Portfolios” Slideshare Presentation Ian Fenn has an upcoming O’Reilly book, “Designing a UX Portfolio” (AKA: UX Researcher with complementary skills in UX and Instructional Design, and Photography. SJSU Human Factors  Ergonomics Grad Student.

I believe Agile is a software development process, not a software design one.Taken this into account, it’s super easy to integrate standard UX processes to Agile development, and I have done so for many years already.Hereby I present you The cornerstone of Agile is the Agile is about how to make the ideal organisational structure for a development team. It puts great emphasis on:Cooper started to think about a This process is called the Cooper’s process isn’t about development: it’s purely a design process, which isIntegrating the two is easy as a pie. Each of them should do what it is good at: designers should design, developers should develop.In practice, either the UX does the PO role, they work closely together, or the PO acts as a UXer — however, UX is an actual profession, studied for years, where A backlog is basically a ToDo-list for requirements. It has two basic forms:An iteration in Scrum — called It is important to note that There are two problems here:My opinion is, that UX has nothing to do in a development sprint:All in all, Build the (product) backlog, not the sprint!Even until very recently, for each sprint, Scrum had only two formal meetings:However, there was an imminent problem: usually, during the planning meeting it turned out, that requirements are not clear enough to estimate whether they could be done within 2 weeks at all. Also, product owners were faced with technical obstacles regarding their requirements for the first time during this.On a Grooming meeting, participants discussThis is a wonderful opportunity for a UXer. Here, a UXer can tell:In some cases, the sprint review is something akin to a usability test, where the product owner tries to execute the scenarios of the requirements.This In worse case, a developer tries to click through the scenarios, hoping that the system won’t freeze while doing it — sometimes with no luck…In fact, sprint review is about getting feedback about the work done so far, and this is what UX can provide best.My recommendation: I sit with the developers whenever I can: the Of course, there are a lot of little questions, technical issues which weren’t visible back when they’ve said OK, edge cases unthought of, etc… If you don’t sit within a few meters to them physically, I’d recommend do not try to squeeze UX into the sprint of development:A UX designer isn’t a developer, and it can cause unnecessary frustration for them:SoThe problem is that it takes days to come up with a minimal viable design, and to check whether it is truly viable also takes a few hours at least.How many iterations does it take to bring a UX design to an acceptable level — it is unknowable. With great research to start with, and an experienced designer the expected deadline is shorter, but deviation is huge even in that case.It’s hard to get from these flowcharts above, but The In my case, I tend to use Kanban pipelines to organise work. For me, it is much more interesting to know:A single iteration of a single phase can be estimated:(Concept phase is an exception: the only thing sure is that it nearly always takes at least one sleep to come up with one)The problem isn’t that we don’t know how much time does it take to produce an iteration: we don’t know how many iterations does it take to reach an acceptable solution.Therefore design sometimes creates even 12–15 variations of the same thing at once, which speeds up the process compared to iterating over only one, but doesn’t remove the need for multiple iterations.Unfortunately, While development can remove itself from these for 2 weeks, in case a customer has a bad idea setting in, it could create tremendous damage very quickly.I wish for a world which differentiates between “Sometimes it is hard to grasp, that in case a sprint has time for designing and testing 15 prototypes, I might come up with the right solution within half an hour, or I could have 15 versions known to not work at the end.Best practices working elsewhere fail frequently. Did you know, for example, that gov.uk is avoiding select boxes?UX is dealing with people stuff; its purpose is to produce a better world for humans. And humans are inestimable and unpredictableUX Designer, Researcher, Software Engineer

When you’re about to embark on creating a startup, there are two people that everyone tells you to talk to: a lawyer and an accountant. And that’s good advice; your likelihood of success goes way down when you’re tied up in jail or bankruptcy court. I think, though, that we need to add one more person to that list: a UX Designer.Before you’ve made your first hire, a few days with a UX Designer can validate your big idea and give you data to put you on firmer footing in your pitches to potential investors. Further down the road, an UX Designer (either as a consultant or a full-time hire) can take the lead in performing, analyzing, and synthesizing user research and providing your startup with an advantage in revenues and user retention right out of the gate.Sound good? Then read on for five examples of how UX can give your startup a head start on the competition and stay out in front as your grow:Every startup starts with a vision, an disruptive idea, a BHAG. Building a business from that big idea is the leap of faith that each startup founder must face before moving any further. But what if there was a way to take some of the unknown out of that leap?In a few days a UX Designer can perform some user interviews in your target market to generate the qualitative data that will help you determine whether your leap will end with you tumbling into the abyss or soaring into the stratosphere.As you’re iterating through the lean Your Product Manager sits at the nexus of Design, Management, and Engineering. She keeps the product pointed in the right direction and focused on the core functionality. She coordinates high speed, intense work between different teams and acts as the air traffic controller of team communication, making sure that everyone has the information that will keep them from crashing and burning. On top of this, she’s got the company budget hovering in her peripheral vision at all times and needs to be able to give the stakeholders regular updates on the progress of the team, state of the budget, and condition of the project. Making her the de facto UX lead is simply cruel and unusual.These validated prototypes will make the developers more efficient, keep all your teams on the same page, and provide stakeholders with a tangible indication of the product’s progress and direction.First impressions are everything, and the UX of your MVP will be the first point of contact your users have with your product. Your code base might be fast and efficient, your features thoroughly vetted, but if the User Experience leaves a bad taste in your first users’ mouths you’re operating with both hands tied behind your back. This is A bad first impression is a setback no startup can afford, and it’s much cheaper to prevent bad UX from the start than it is to fix it later.The UX Designer is talking to Whether you can afford to bring in a full-time UX Designer or you hire a UX Consultant to handle specific tasks throughout the process, your startup will see the benefits of a firm UX foundation for years to come.And that’s above and beyond the benefits of letting your team focus on their core skills, more and better product testing and validation, and an MVP user experience that generates buzz and referrals.User Experience and Business Experience Designer. Founder, Denver Business Design Consulting: 

There are so many different ways to have a career in UX. You essentially get to choose your own adventure by incorporating the skills and knowledge you care about. You may eventually decide that you But everywhere you go will be set up a little differently. From small UX teams of one to large teams of 20+, from in-house to agency-side, from highly regulated industries to innovative tech startups — each environment will have wildly different needs. In many cases, you’ll find yourself wrapping a variety of distinct skills into a UX position we like to call “The Generalist.”Being a generalist is how many get started. You pick up skills from across the spectrum, and feel a little like a kid in a candy store when it comes to trying out new tools, roles, or ways to contribute to a product. Embrace it! Regardless of your specific area of interest, there are tons of ways to expand your UX skills and grow your career. Here are a few things I do to improve my practice:Getting integrated into your company’s version control tool is the key to communicating with developers and collaborating with them on prototypes. Having a framework like Bootstrap will help you learn quickly and cobble together prototypes quickly. I’m pretty sure I have a separate blog post on this topic just waiting to be written, so for now I’ll simply leave you with some great tools to get you started:I think the best way to conclude this series is to remind you to enjoy life while you’re becoming a UXer. Work hard AND play hard. If you don’t take time to recharge, you won’t have that “shower moment” the next time you’re wrestling with a big idea. If you take time to recharge, you’ll find the things you do outside of work start informing the things you do at work, even something as simple as the experience of going to a really great store. Our Web Application Mechanic Andy Kvamme has some Twin Cities native. UX Engineer 

by Joie ReinsteinMonday night in the Angel, Islington Area of London, my friend Will and I sit down to a lovely meal at a local French restaurant. As we are enjoying our food and discussion, we glance around the room. “Look, if we were in New York, everybody’s phones would be lying in front of them on the table. Here I don’t see a single phone anywhere!” said Will. He was right, no compulsive Instagram checking, no Tindering… everyone was engaged in a steady flow of conversation and merry making, giving their table mates their undivided, app free attention.People in London work as hard as the next guys. One of the powerhouse cities of Europe they have always been on the forefront of creation and innovation and have welcomed a wide variety of other nationalities and talent to contribute to their work force. Yet even though they compete happily on the world wide scale of productivity, they are still profoundly European in the sense that when the work clock is off, life is meant to be enjoyed and the pace slowed down.In their world, online is for productivity or solo consumption. It is for when you need to multitask, get things done at work, find the quickest way to your destination, listen to music or simply play a game to unwind on the commute. Come the weekend, it’s another story entirely. Riding on the tube in the East End of London on a Saturday, I looked around me and everyone seemed to be gathered in groups or with a loved one, happily chatting as they made their way to a market or lunch. Again, not a phone in sight, not even in someone’s hand ready to be deployed at a moment’s notice. It’s not like it was even just uncouth to brandish your smart phone in the presence of others, it was as if the thought didn’t even occur to them. I also got the impression that despite the grey weather, people were generally more cheerful in London, leading me to wonder does too much technological consumption lead to unhappiness? Creative Strategist  UX Designer, Global Nomad, K-pop Dancer.

by Joie ReinsteinThat’s what I learned time and time again as I made my way through the Dutch capital. Every cafe, restaurant and space would happily allow you to connect to their wifi, but when it came to more “common” things, it was met with reticence. I believe that this contradiction actually sums up the state of Holland as a whole. The capital feels more like a big town yet it has one of the most international populations I have ever seen, it is dead bent on being on the forefront of technology in Europe, but yet has a hard time giving up controversial traditions (Like black face on Saint Nicholas’ little helper Zwarte Piet : Now in each country I go to, I do a dinner table test: I look around me in a restaurant and see how people are interacting with their smartphones socially. Unlike London and Stockholm, here people unabashedly whip out their phones at the table, show friends pictures and even engage in selfies. It felt much like the New York mode. This was later confirmed by a local, menswear designer, In fact, the Dutch seem to have a productive view in general when it comes to technology as they see it as a means to get ahead of their European counterparts or a competitive advantage. This could be largely to do with two historical and cultural reasons. One, the Netherlands has a centuries long tradition in trade. In fact they were the only country allowed to trade with Japan when the latter was in full isolation mode 400 years ago. Who hasn’t heard stories of Dutch traders going to the outer reaches of the earth on their ships, seeking out new customers and new lands? As a result, they approach the digital landscape in a similar manner. Second, Finally, despite all of it’s idiosyncrasies, the Netherlands’ residents are a curious lot. I believe it is an excellent space to beta test certain ideas as they have already made some radical changes. For example, many times I saw signs that read “NO CASH, CARD ONLY”. Normally in most cities it’s the other way around, or they have that annoying minimum. Here they seemed bothered by paper money as if it was some sort of dirty ancient relic that they did not enjoy handling. For a small country, the Netherlands is an economic powerhouse that is feeling the push and pull of the European Union, the changes of the status quo of business and a certain inner conflict of what it is to be Dutch. And this force is felt in their relationship to technology, but somehow I believe if they can break out of this transitional period, they will emerge as one of the winners, like they always have throughout history.Creative Strategist  UX Designer, Global Nomad, K-pop Dancer.

Can it be that we can only create this optimism and effervescence out of complete downfall and decay? The concept of gentrification is entirely based on that and we have seen it in countless neighborhoods in countless cities: East London, Brooklyn, Oakland in SF… On the other hand, how the city chooses to manage these changes is another matter entirely and a pure reflection of the priorities of the city. One thing that Berlin has, that is so deeply embedded in the German psyche, and which differs itself from other cities is time and patience. A Wonderland of course attracts its revelers. Berlin feels in many ways just as international as London but at a 1/3 of the price (again Berliners will complain that the city has gotten expensive, but your wallet will definitely sing if you are coming from New York, London, Hong Kong or Paris). Previously it was also said that because of the fall of the Wall and the slow economic growth, jobs were hard to come by. The problem is Berlin never really had any other specific industry other than culture. This is definitely still a driving force, and the rest of Germany tends to seek inspiration from the city as a result. But everyone knows that culture, albeit necessary, is not always the most lucrative of ventures. So enter the start-up scene, or Silicon Allee as they are cheekily calling it (you can even check out the official website here: It is also said that Berlin is a freelancers paradise. While this might be a deterrent for some, those that crave the stability of a full time job and a regular pay check, it can also be the biggest advantage to being a Berliner, one of the main reasons I myself came here. Fluidity is the word I would use to describe the nature of the tech scene in Berlin. And although I don’t want the world to become one giant Google campus, this fluid way of thinking also allows a non-traditional flow of ideas of and ways of doing business. Again the key here is time. Creative Strategist  UX Designer, Global Nomad, K-pop Dancer.

Making your website look pretty is an important part of web design, but even a nice looking website can fail if it is not user-friendly. If you are looking to improve the user experience of your website, we’re here to help. Below are 13 common UX mistakes and how users may react to them.Just say no to this — almost always impossible to read.Again — impossible to read. All caps is okay for most buttons though.People hate rolling over images and then having the image swap out totally for text. They want the rollover to be an additive experience — with translucent panels — instead of the image completely disappearing.You have two seconds to convey the meaning of a page before the user bounces. If the user can not understand the basic information on the page — and be compelled to read it — then the page is bad.If an infographic tells the story, you don’t have to provide 100% duplication with the text. The text should compliment the graphic and extend the meaning. Not duplicate it.Avoid using terms for labels, navigation, and tabs that reflect your company’s org chart or proprietary lingo. The user must understand these things instantly without thinking about it.As a general rule, buttons should begin processes, spawn browser tabs, or take users to a completely different section of the site. On the other hand, text links should provide more information or take users to another related page. While there are always exceptions, stick with these rules unless pages look too link-heavy.Nobody likes these. They fool the user into thinking they have gone to another page. Sometimes the scroll-down after the click is so fast that they are not aware it has happened, and then they don’t know where they are in the site.People should always know where they are on a site. They shouldn’t have to rely on the back button in order to get back to a page they were previously on.These are left and right walls that hide content (usually images in galleries with sliders). Consider showing 1/4 or 1/2 of an image to encourage swiping or scrolling.Every page should be organized following the natural flow you want the user to take. If the objective of the page is to get them to buy something, then the hierarchy of the page content should reflect the natural progression of the user in making that journey.When a user has clicked on a navigation button, it must be highlighted in it’s selected state when the user is presented with the new page. This reminds users where they are and confirms the sequence of their actions.You should try and find a balance between motivational heads and those that can be instantly understood by all users. Don’t use so much marketing language to the point where some people will not get the “cleverness.”Thanks to A Boston-based digital agency

So I recently read an In recent years, I had the pleasure of being on a multiple teams that built UI for awesome enterprise grade products. On one of those of those teams, we simply decided that we will brainstorm the mock-ups of the new features as a team. The operative word here is I firmly believe they should. The era of mutually exclusive/agnostic speciality roles in software development is over. Companies are employing Based on that understanding, the team decided to do mock-ups for a new dashboard feature collectively. The UX Director had done a great job in laying out the personas, users and high level stories. She had also coached us on most UX 101. For a side project, I personally learned how to conduct KJ Sessions and Usability Test sessions. Armed with just white paper and pencils, all of us decided to do mock-ups of what the page would look like, what and how the data would be presented, state transitions, user messages i.e. the whole nine yards. After a round, each one of us presented our mock-ups and explained the page.Remarkably, we were not deviating from each others design drastically. As it turned out, naturally, the final design consisted of at least one idea from every engineer. I believe this naturally happened because of the experience they brought to the table. All along UX Director was there to keep us on track and do a sanity check of the design. She was not there to dictate the design that she would have liked or sideline ideas that were better than hers. She was there to make sure that the design was staying true to the end users and we avoided violations of basic UX principles. She was integral part of this team exercise.Now, in the context of that little story, which I have seen successfully repeated multiple times, let us look at the four explanations in the brainstorming article and see how they may not hold water.1. 2. 3. 4. So in short, group brainstorming does not have to be a waste of time if is is planned right, starts with a reasonable group size and is well facilitated. I believe starting off with this approach, in general, will help. But again, repeat what works and change what does not.Engineer, UX Practitioner, Big Data Enthusiast, Agilist, Husband, Sikh, DIYer, Cricketer, Gardener, Ping-Ponger and GadgeteerMind dumps on Sofware Technology, Processes and People

Vlastně to přišlo dost náhle — měsíce si čtu nějaké to info o UX, procházím různé blogy, občas i kupuju knížky o designu a použitelnosti na webu. Prostě mě už nějak nebaví dělat weby či aplikace, u kterých nejsou příliš pojmenované cíle a hlavně — zpětná vazba od našich uživatelů je spíš odhadovaná než reálně vyhodnocovaná. Při cestě domů jsem opět procházel Twitter a kdosi z mých desítek sledovaných sdílel informaci o posledním místě na jakési UX akademii — zaujalo mne to hned a hodinu na to už jsem byl přesvědčený, že se akademie musím zúčastnit — začátek za asi 3 týdny, tak to je dost narychlo, říkal jsem si. Kontaktoval jsem Berku, který mě překvapil svým úplně neformálním přístupem a pak už to bylo jenom o čekání na první víkend.Nechával jsem si tento úkol trochu na později — abych měl čas organizovat myšlenky a vyhodnotit si, jak jsem vlastně celý ten víkend vnímal — a vlastně taky abych si mohl udělat relativně dlouhodobější retrospektivu.Nechci popisovat jak to celé probíhalo a co bylo konkrétní náplní těch tří dní. Pouze bych rád doporučil všem účastníkům, ať se s námi setkávají už v pátek, protože to je super neoficiální začátek celého víkendu a témata jsou tam super — oborová i neoborová.Moje dojmy tedy shrnu pouze v několika bodech.Takže závěr — už teď vím, že ty dva měsíce bez Akademie v létě budou velmi dlouhé. Na to teď ale nemysleme, těšme se na nejbližší víkend.Student UX Akademie, freelancer i korporační product manager. Nadšenec do frontend technologií a designu.Moje cesta do světa UX

It’s not an easy task to get hired for your first job in UX. It’s an especially difficult task when you don’t know anyone in the industry. Meeting other people will get your name out in the community, and there’ll be a better chance you’ll hear about awesome job postings.Being a part of an active community is also a really great way to learn more. And there’s always someone out there who will be excited to help you learn and get connected.There are a couple great ways to do this:When I first started in UX, I wanted to go to things like An Event Apart, Confab, and UIE. While those are all incredible conferences, you don’t need to look far or have a lot saved up to start getting integrated in your local community, right now.Twin Cities native. UX Engineer 

Our competitors may not be taking advantage of customizing the user’s experience based off of their behavior by their session, but we will. This would be the primary reason to push for immediate auth (so you have a place to store personalization information).Drop-off rates are higher when the barrier-to-entry is higher, so anything we can do to reduce up-front barriers is preferred. Users, by their nature, have explicit moments when they are willing to take action. In other words, the user needs to be invested prior to taking action.Any action you ask of them without an investment equates to taking their “engagement investment account” balance to zero. When there is a balance in their account, then the user can draw against that. The user subliminally credits a small amount of engagement-willing-to-spend-for-perceived-value-offered for each foreseeable barrier. The user will base the amount of credit invested on the minimum amount needed for an average of applicable past experiences, which formulates what they deem to be the “industry standard.”When a user has invested enough credit due to the promise of value, then they have can act. Therefore, conversions are more reliable, their experience pathway is hardened, and trust is gained.Another way to think about it is the “quid pro quo” concept.Value is offered when the user stands to gain value, but the website needs to first be the “quid” prior to requiring the user’s “quo.”This Tech, marketing, and more from the trenches

Ou comment appliquer des principes du Marketing et du Web Design pour faire une présentation efficace en entreprise.Votre but, c’est faire passer votre message.Cette règle absolue doit vous rester en tête lorsque vous commencez à imaginer votre présentation, tout comme lorsque vous présentez.Si on vous accorde 20 minutes, bouclez votre présentation en 15. On vous en donne 15, bouclez la en 10.Deux cas de figure se présentent généralement :N’oubliez-pas, votre PC n’est pas forcément celui que vous utiliserez. Évitez donc des formats trop lourds ou exotiques. Il faut que vous puissiez le projeter le plus rapidement possible. Ce que je veux dire par responsive, c’est que votre présentation doit s’afficher clairement et proprement quel que soit le moyen de projection et les conditions que vous allez rencontrer. Mettez-vous bien cela en tête (répétez-le 10 fois) : “Je n’utiliserai que des citations pertinentes en rapport avec mon sujet”. Imaginez votre autres slides comme une landing page : Si vous respectez les consignes de cet article, vous verrez que les typographies ont un rôle important pour véhiculer votre message :Utilisez des polices simples, claire, carrées. Helvetica, Futura ou ITC Avant Garde représentent de bonnes bases.Elles ne sont pas à bannir mais à utiliser avec parcimonie et justesse.Chef de projet Marketing Digital et Enseignant Stratégie de Marketing Digital

When you have an idea about how something should be, it’s hard to get the idea out of your mind and explore alternatives — it’s just brilliant to you.Even if it’s brilliant, you might find that it is not good enough for your users and their needs. The stereotypical solitary designer, working silently in a corner for a period of time, inviting only occasional peeks at their work before it’s “done.” understands this very well.He creates his own view of the interface and then he tries to convince everybody that his decisions are the best due to his extended experience.But even if he has design experience because he worked on various projects he is not a subject matter expert, nor a stakeholder and in most cases not a user of that product.The task flows and user journeys that you create for stakeholder review will get changed, improved or proven to be wrong as you didn’t consider all scenarios.The more advanced the state of the design concept, the more work you will have to do in order to change it. Therefore There are two important reasons to prototype:1. 2. Lean UX accommodates for greater team It advocates for an open and collaborative design process that focuses on a shared understanding of the problem, ditching thick deliverables in favor of communication.You have an idea - you create a prototype - validate it internally -test externally through user testing sessions - you analyze that feedback - you reiterate based on the feedback you get.An ideation meeting kicks off the project and the goal is to visualize the idea and the core components of the design together with the team. In that sense the team provides their insights on the feasibility and sustainability of the design as well as different viewpoints on the concept.You adapt or even completely change the original idea based on the internal feedback that you get on the spot. Once a direction is agreed upon, you validate the idea with customers and get another round of feedback but this time external feedback. And based upon that feedback you reiterate and adjust the design to meet the users needs.It’s pretty much the software prototyping methodology applied to the design process.Software prototyping is a methodology that I touched upon earlier and described in another post The big difference between them is that Design Strategy  User Experience related pieces. Design Strategy and User Experience

本文搬到了自己的blog：zurassic.com

В психологии есть термин «референция», который определяет основы для принятия решения. Внешняя референция — человек опирается на окружение. Внутренняя — на себя. Смешанная — на окружение и себя.Применение знаний референций способно сделать UX в разы убедительнее. Представьте, пользователь идет по заранее построенному вами пути, попадает на триггер и совершает целевое действие — это ли не идеальный сценарий?Рассмотрим подробнее, что может улучшить UX.Если человек опирается на мнение других, то используем:Если человек имеет свое мнение, как мы узнаем, что оно у него есть? Позволим ему выразить мнение:Триггеры смешанной референции включают в себя весь вышеуказанный список. Например, «Ты действительно крут. Но посмотрим, насколько быстрее ты станешь бегать по футбольному полю в новых Adidas Predator. Кстати, в них бегает Леонид Парфенов, который выбирает Мегафон».UI/UX Designer. Увлечен типографикой, геометрическими формами и минимализмом.

ChooseYourNews: A preference-focused news aggregatorThis design challenge was scaffolded with informative lecture series by our instructors Rashida White, Alex Koplin, and Jesse Smith. Armed with their insights and information, I aimed to create an effective user experience design that is directly aligned with evidence extracted from witnessing current user activity and probing by way of user interviews. Factoring in the time constraint, while still aiming to obtain an expansive perspective of current user news app activity, I chose to interview 4 individuals who all varied in ages and background. Sample questions from my interviews included:Through the interview process, I discovered that several factors played into what users consider to be a suitable news app, with a few overlapping responses.Using affinity mapping and categorizing trends, I came to the conclusion that there were three primary concerns when utilizing current news app programs.My goal is to devise an app that decreases the amount of time an individual spends looking for specific content and increases the accessibility of recommended or popular items; and accomplishing this through personalization preferences.Pen  paper:My first prototype included a “notification preference” feature as a way to save time by receiving alerts when your chosen category of news occurred. I also included a “recommendation” button at the bottom of the article, so that users would have easy accessible to content that was recommended by the sources of the their preferred articles.The next step was to conduct usability tests in order to determine the functionality of these additive features. The feedback I received related to the first prototype consisted of the following:My final design for ChooseYourNews consisted of a clean interface with a prominent button that led the user to choose their news preferences. The user would then be able to type in a topic of interest. The next screen would contain all articles related to that topic, with the option of several preference-filters in order to further personalize the search.I opted for preference-based filters as opposed to preference-based notifications in order to prevent my users from having to only decide between what they would be alerted for. My choosing filters that re-ordered articles to the top of the screen, they still save time sifting and scrolling through the application without becoming bombarded with Donald Trump tid-bits.For the final prototype, the feedback I received was overall positive. Users enjoyed the flow of the program, and found it to be very intuitive. The “location” filter, which initially confused users during the first prototype, became more obvious within the final design.Constructive feedback included the following:Given the opportunity to refine this prototype while also taking into consideration users’ feedback, I would be sure to focus on several improvements to enhance its usability.

That’s it. Week 1 of General Assembly’s User Experience Design Immersive in the books.But come to think of it, What I’ve learned so far isn’t stuff that’s been recorded on paper. I wasn’t required to memorize the definitions of User Research, Divergent/Convergent Thinking, Affinity Mapping, or Prototyping. Instead, I Aside from getting started with UXDi, I’ve also leveled up on some street smarts. I know leaving at 7 in the morning instead of 7:15 has the potential to cut a half hour off of my commute and grants me the ability to swing into Starbucks on the way to GA. I’ve learned that instead of hurrying home, I need to stay after class and put in some work when I’m still in the zone. I’ve learned that if I choose to take the bus home it may be the wrong bus, and it may literally take me This is stuff the books don’t mention!We had four days to come up with a prototype of either a messaging app, calendar app, or activity timer. I was assigned the latter. We were given the project prompt end of day 1, then each successive day we worked on interviewing potential users/synthesizing said interviews, sketching/prototyping, and user testing, respectively. Friday was presentation day.I narrowed “activity timer” down to a specific scope: music. Was this an excuse for me to chat to my new peers about their music listening habits? Definitely. People usually don’t time their music listening, but luckily my three interviewees listened to music during their *timed* workouts. Admittedly this was a case where I jumped into the project without substantial planning beforehand. I’m looking forward to plotting a more methodological approach for Project 2, and will keep the end goal of the project salient in my mind during this stage of the process. I also could get used to interviewing people, especially if it’s about music!I enjoyed synthesizing (which involves finding themes, and specifically uncovering a reoccurring problem) my interview findings more than I thought I would. To see themes– whether they be pains/pleasures, contexts, or behaviors– bubble up, and then to feel the cogwheels turn in my head as I felt the spark of the beginning of possible solution was deeply satisfying. My main method of synthesis was making a list of key points from interviews on my computer and then looking for pan-interview themes, but next time my plan of attack will be to use an analog (paper) method. I did make a post-hoc analog Affinity Map, which involved writing key points from interviews on post-its and then organizing them on my wall. I’m guessing the reason I abandoned it was because I felt like it was supurfluous to what I had gathered from my initial list. However, if I start with an analog method as was suggested to do so in class I believe my synthesis for Project 2 will be more effective and potentially quicker.Project Day 3 brought sketching exercises and paper prototyping. After over a year of working on a computer as a graphic designer it felt divine to touch a Sharpie to paper! The sketching that I found most useful towards the development of my final prototype came after I had a mindful synthesis session, which to my chagrin came the night after we spent the day sketching and prototyping. Because I hadn’t synthesized fully at the time, I actually found myself prototyping a feature that an interviewee somewhat fervently spoke against. It’s safe to say Project 2 will involve a nice, thoughtful synthesis session Project Day 4 was dedicated to User Testing. Before we delve into that, we had a “pin up” session during which we hung up a flow of four or so screens and circled around the room to leave feedback post-its on everyone’s work. What did I gather from this exercise?It’s okay, though! I got some good feedback from this process and the next steps were cut out for me.After the pin up session I sat down with two classmates who interacted with my prototype, which was brought to life on my phone through a neat app called Marvel that allows one to create a virtual prototype from a paper one. Taking into account the feedback received from the pin up session and my two UT sessions, I walked away with a great list of suggested things to add/amend. A theme I extracted from these suggestions was the balance between the “explicit” and the “minimal”. Architect Louis Sullivan stated that “form follows function”, and this first week at GA highlighted for me the delicate threshold that lies between the two. I’m learning that there’s a point when minimal doesn’t make sense. With graphic design, less is more. But with UX Design, sometimes more is necessary.Ah, presentation day. It was fun to see how everyone’s apps turned out, and to see how everyone solved the problems they found with their own unique solutions. In the scheme of things, I would say presenting is one of my weaker suits, but I’m optimistic that it will become easier and easier as the program goes on and I get even more into the swing of things!R[AMP] final prototype: General Assembly UX Design Immersive Student with love of things visual, psychological, and musical. Follow my journey into the world of UX!

I was not attending the conference this year, but did not really miss much because of these great tweets that kept coming :)Below are some highlights from the tweets and further below you will find the storify-ed version of all the tweets I curated.This is usually the most engaging panel discussions of the conference almost every year. They have panelists both from Academia and Design managers from industry talk about the current gaps in Design Education and current market needs in India.Here are my thoughts from last year’s panel discussionAnd here’s I have tried to collect all the tweets from the conference For more articles and writings by UX professionals in India, do follow the Ethnographer, observer, user experience designer, part time cook, photographer, design researcher, innovation explorer, customer experience specialistReviews, journeys and analysis about using Indian websites, apps and services. Also thoughts and writings by Indian UXers/Design Thinkers.

I’m not typically a gambler, but I am willing to bet that you have a smartphone. And on that smartphone you have a collection of apps. Some of them you use everyday — maybe even several times a day. Some of them you rely on so heavily that to take them away would cause a serious hardship. I know I have a few. I want you to think about why you use these apps so much. Why you are so attached to them. Maybe it’s because they are simple to use. They make your life easier. They may even be fun. In fact, now that you think about it, it’s like these apps were designed just for you.Now I want you to think about why you feel like this app was designed with you in mind. I’ll give you a hint. It’s not because some UI (User Interface) designer sat in a cubicle and made an ugly app pretty. It’s not because a UX (User Experience) designer guessed at how it should work. It’s because a leader like you made the smartest decision that could possibly be made. He chose to invest in a UX professional who is good at learning about the end user. A UX professional good taking that information and transforming it into insight about what the user needs. A UX professional building a solution so compelling that the end use falls in love with using it.Do you know what happens when your end user falls in love with the solution you have invested in? If it’s an internal business solution your productivity will skyrocket. Your workforce will scale farther. Your employees who use the solution to do their job will be happier. You will reduce your employee turnover. You will set the industry standard. You may even be able to monetize it. Don’t believe me? Just look at the internal tools that have made UPS, Amazon, and Intuit so successful.Maybe your end user is your customer. If you put a solution in their hands that they love using, not only do you have a customer for as long as your solution is relevant, they will scream if someone tries to take it away. They will share how much they love it with other people. They will multiply in numbers until you no longer have to seek out customers, but instead need to turn them away. Take AirBnB, Uber, and Tinder. These young startups are now worth billions and still growing at a frightening rate. The main thing they have in common is a solution that is so user-friendly that a customer uses it once and falls in love with it. It’s not user friendly because it’s pretty. It’s user friendly because they invest in UX. They invest in knowing their user.It is your mission as a leader to defend against business killers, and invest in the infrastructure that brings success. If there is one thing you need to remember it is this; UX is not UI. UX is not about making a pretty interface. UX is about understanding what your user needs. UX is about creating the right solution.

Culture can be one of the critical elements to user experience (UX) of the new technologies (app, websites etc.), when enterprise wants to extend their marketing to other countries. These culture differences make people cannot understand each other in some situations.The influence of the Chinese (Asian) Culture and the West Culture on E-commerce websites can be a good example.Taobao (The first impression for west people probably is that the homepage of Taobao is in a mess which has so many items and bright red colour on the homepage. It is just like the life in China: crowed almost everywhere, colourful (Ads, shops ect.), full of things without space on the street which Chinese are accustomed to.The other example is the Chinese B2C website Jingdong (The main colour of the website is red which means positive and joyful in China and it is different from West culture. However, I think the use of red colour as the main colour on the website is not a good decision as it is not accessible to the colour blind users. The accessibility is still an issue on most of the Chinese websites and enterprises have not realized the importance of accessibility.However, both the crowed layout and the use of the red colour are the influence of the Chinese culture on the design of the e-commerce websites.It is predicted that in 2020, the online retail sales will reach the amount 10 Trillion Yuan and represent 16% of Chinese retail sales (Source: ChinaInternwatch, AliResearch, iResearchChina). It indicates that west enterprises could get highly rewarding by extending their market to the Chinese market. However, in terms of culture difference, it takes time to achieve great user experience for customers who have totally different culture. The research on culture differences need to be conducted in advance.UX architect make simple and usable products for people. Any intelligent fool can make things bigger and more complex... It takes a touch of genius - and a lot

A new storytelling medium is emerging. But what do we call it? This recommended reading list is for anyone who wants to learn or deepen their knowledge in the disciplines of UX Designer at Three wonderful links, once a week.

WFor Project 2 we would be responsible for redesigning an e-commerce site to deliver an interactive prototype in the end. We were given Performance Bicycle’s (But that’s Having no direction proved to be the most difficult aspect of the project. With no business goals and areas of the site to focus on, I knew I needed a direction. It was up to me to figure it out…and fast. Using experiences from Project 1 and new techniques learned in class, the first step was to build a persona from user research to get a better idea of where to start.Utilizing Google Forms and sending it out to my friends who would serve as the user group, I whipped up a list of questions to better understand the demographics that would purchase a bicycle. Unfortunately, the data I received from my initial survey ultimately led me to scrap it.I found that my first survey asked the wrong type of questions as most were geared towards bike knowledge. The results I got back were great information yes, but it did not allow me to undercover UX issues. I was so focused on the bike aspect that I forgot what my role was as an UX designer for this project — Tweaking my questions to concentrate more on shopping habits rather than bike knowledge, I felt that I was on the right track (no pun intended).By splitting the users between I also wanted to find out if there were similarities between their online shopping habits and other factors that were important for them.Happy with my survey results, I laid out the data and any associations I came across would serve as the Now that we have an idea for our persona’s online shopping habits, I now wanted to capture feedback on the site itself to pinpoint the areas I could streamline. I sat with as many people as I could that fit the demographic from my results and recorded them as they went through Performance Bike’s website. Any trends and common complaints were highlighted to use for my persona’s pain points. I also had the same individuals visit and provide feedback on a competitor’s website (Nashbar — Compiling all the data and feedback, I created the persona below. Nate is a young professional who recently relocated to Santa Monica and looking to purchase a road bike to commute to work.Establishing knowledge of where the site needs improvement and where my users encountered problems, I can now plan accordingly. For site fixes, I planned to:I also wanted to add items I felt would improve my user’s experience on the site:I started my process by mapping out the user journey for Performance Bicycle to understand where my users encountered their pain points and uncover the areas that could be tweaked. In the picture below, the red boxes highlight:At the end of the process, I can see how users can be left grumbling…Next I decided to create a site map for Performance Bicycle to get a better idea of their organizational structure. Expanding even just one category (bikes), the tree became unmanageable. You can see that the user would need to navigate through Nashbar’s site map was far more simplistic, allowing the user to go fromDeciding to whittle away most of the categories in Performance Bike, I wanted my revised version to resemble Nashbar’s a bit more. Instead of deleting categories in Performance Bike, I combined ones that were similar to one another and ended up with (in my honest opinion) a cleaner site map.With an idea of how I wanted the categories to look, I started working on the user flow. I made sure to include new features that would enhance my user’s experience on the revised site:For the site itself in terms of layout, I planned to change it drastically but at the same time not scare off current users. I took inspiration from biking brand websites (Trek, Cannondale, Specialized, etc) as well as car brands (Acura, Infiniti, Cadillac, etc). All these sites are image rich with emphasis on the lifestyle, not just the products. I wanted to bring that philosophy to Performance Bike.For the product listing page, I was inspired by clothing and fashion sites. Big product pictures along with a more comprehensive and user friendly filters. I really enjoyed Michael Kors’ minimalist feel and Nordstrom’s filtering capability and chose to bring those elements into my design.Ready to build my prototype, I started with hand sketches on grid paper to give me a guide before transitioning them into wireframes on the computer.Building out my wireframes in Illustrator, I created everything the user might encounter as s/he goes from homepage to bike selection to checkout and finally confirmation. Feel free to access the prototype The homepage is obviously the most important page of the website. It determines if the user comprehends the purpose of the site and stays on without bouncing. I implemented a few ideas to emphasize the community aspect of biking. Additionally, since my user is new to Santa Monica, I felt a feature where he could view bike routes in his city would be a helpful (and sticky) feature.Drawing inspiration from car sites, I decided to have a Also a new feature is a Checkout was streamlined as well. From the original lengthy page, I managed to shrink it down and took one step out in the process. Instead of having a page offering a choice of For the Completing my clickable prototype ahead of schedule, I had the luxury of having some of my UXDI classmates test it for usability. Initial feedback were positive as they felt the revamped layout and navigation much smoother than the original site. The new features, especially the bike selector tool and bike routes, everyone agreed were thoughtful tools (to my surprise, it garnered better than expected reactions — when I first had it in mind, I thought it’d be pretty cool, not necessarily “wow” features). One tester even mentioned, “Of course, there were some critical feedback as well such as button placements, icon usage, and missing pages here and there (i.e. order review page). Having that extra time allowed me to go back and perfect the prototype.This project was definitely a much larger undertaking compared to the first. However, in the two weeks, I felt I learned a great deal on how to research users, uncover UX issues, and formulate ideas tackling them. As mentioned, I did find it a bit difficult starting the project in the beginning as there were no business nor stakeholder insights provided. To ground myself and keep the project moving forward, I constantly reminded myself to focus on the user.One of the biggest takeaways and lessons I learned from this project was that mistakes should be welcomed, not avoided. If not for mucking up my initial survey, I am sure the project would’ve taken a completely different turn. It was through my mistake I realized the correct path to take.Usability testing also played a significant part in the completion of the project. Having users test out the prototype allowed me to perfect my deliverables even further. A fresh set of eyes can be more important than you realize as they are able to point out items you may have forgotten or provide suggestions and ideas not thought of originally.With two projects now under my belt, I definitely feel a lot more confident in my problem solving process and how to create solutions creatively. With three more projects ahead, I am hoping to continue learning the skills and tools needed to become a successful UX designer. Thanks for reading.I like to make nice things and make things nice.

I saw some curious comments included in the code for a prototype website that was just about to go live:!DOCTYPE htmlhtml lang=”en-US”headtitleHTML comment tag/title/head! --not tested on actual users (sigh) --bodyThe answer lies in the question(in association with the University of Hard Knocks Press)

A good friend of mine has the best email signature, and no, it does not include the words “ninja” or “rockstar.” I met this person at my first job out of visual communications school, where I had spent my time building books by hand and printing posters. This individual gave me my first introduction to the important process that is User Experience, changing the course of my career. Her signature boldly stated, “Design for People.”Every time someone outside of the tech world asks what my profession is, I answer dutifully, “user experience designer.” Their face immediately strikes a perplexed pose, followed by, “What’s It gets old trying to explain to someone not in-the-know what exactly But when you really think about it, that’s a pretty relevant question. This job title didn’t exist all that long ago. Even people in the industry aren’t entirely sure what By definition, user means a person who uses or operates something, especially a computer or other machine. Experience means practical contact with and observation of facts or events At it’s most basic, we are designing for a person. This person uses what we are creating to do something (and hopefully it will leave a good impression on them). Beyond that, we are hired for a reason — someone has a product, either new or old, that needs some work. This product is supposed to perform a function for the user and we are to bridge the gap between an idea and something functional.Designers are constantly trying to be innovative and push boundaries and make beautiful work, which is great. Until that’s all you’re doing.We often get caught up in the form of what we create and forget for whom we are creating it. This isn’t for ourselves or our street cred on That’s the driving force in everything we do. The people. We design for people. Forget about being fashionable with the all the latest trends and stop making it complex for complexity’s sake. Every decision must serve a greater purpose. We create products that people can and want to use — products that will make their lives easier, better. To create design for people at 

Calm down, Users! Now’s not the time for panic. That comes later, when our subsequent versions are incompatible with your outmoded devices.Watch me torture an entire population with pitiful UX design and when they have fully adopted my products they will truly understand the depth of their failure… when we ask them to upgrade their systems.The powerful networks will only be able to handle our products, and we shall cast those on 3G and dial-up into a cold and lethargic world for them to endure.The app betrays you, because it belongs to me!I will release my app directly to the User without any use-testing whatsoever. Then it will break for them.Requesting support has cost you your time! Reliance has defeated you!Bad UX? It is you who doesn’t understand… Your punishment must be more severe. Keep trying until you figure it out.Perhaps you’re wondering why a website would shoot itself in the foot by not being mobile-friendly?Oh, you think typography is your ally? You won’t see our tiny typography until you move closer to the screen’s light, by then it is nothing to you but BLINDING!There’s a reason why this design is the worst hell on earth… Features. Every User who has ventured here has looked at feature upon feature upon feature upon FEATURE and imagined a delightful experience. So wrong… So deceiving…You prototype and release like you have empathy, with consideration of the User. Always looking for feedback.Theatricality and deception are powerful agents for recruiting new Users…It doesn’t matter how it looks, what matters is onboarding users without them knowing.There can be no true despair without user authentication. So, as I release new products, I will terrorize new Users with cumbersome sign-up methods to poison their souls.No one cared about my bloated product until I gave it away for free, only to bombard Users with in-app purchases and advertisements, surprising Users.The bug is you! YOU’RE using it wrong… YOU’RE the one causing the interference. Do as you please.Navigation, where you will learn the truth about despair, a nav button adjacent to the BUY button.When you have accidentally made an in-app purchase using the credit card we have on file, we send you a receipt, then you have my permission to delete the app.(jaysun - chalendis) n. [American, Greek + Italian] 1. Educator, writer, designer, geek. 2. Raised on comic books, calculus, literature, sci-fi, film, humor.

Nessa edição eles contam como redesenharam/criaram uma ferramenta de automatização de envio de emails, descrevendo um fluxo para analisar e desenhar funcionalidades:Anotações para me lembrar de coisas dos artigos que li

TL;DR: UX is awesome! Week 1 taught me a lot and I cannot imagine what else I will learn in the next 9 weeks.Met prospective fellow batch mates. It was fun. They prepped us for the rollercoaster ride ahead.My team name is GhoulsApart from the awesome intro, I had the below few key takeaways:I came up with a basic anaolgy of UX Designers being the Architects. they understand the principles but also the needs and feelings of the people who are going to be working in the building that is about to be built.The construction workers are the awesome developers that will make the foundation and the interior designers are perhaps the interaction/visual designers.This is just a base analogy of course. Some of the main roles in UX were mentioned and we got to learn a bit about all of themThis experience was like putting on the iron man helmet and now everything you see is through the lens of a UX designer which is noticing the affordances, signifiers, constraints, mapping and feedback.And then… it was time for the first assignmentWe went out and checked out the MTA ticket machine as a part of our team assignment. Shoutout to Guy and Krista for being awesome team members.We being the users ourselves introspected about our own annoyances regarding the system. Majority of the research was based off of personal experience and personal suggestions/changes that will help in making the experience betterTop 3 recommendations:We presented this in front of the class as well.Project 1: Kick OffIt is time to put on our detective hats and start working!UX without User is not UX.UX — U = XX means don’t do itI was assigned the Weather topicI used Topic Mapping to come up with the initial set of questions and filtered them out with the 4 list (Behavior, context, pleasures and pain) principle.Then, based on what we learned I made a script to introduce myself and ask users the questions to gather initial data.I had to approach a random person in a GA Hackathon. It was awkward and I was super nervous. You know that feeling when your friend puts you on the spot and tells you to go talk to that cute girl? Yes, that feeling. The user interview went well and I got better at it slowly.I interviewed total 5 users.I found these were the common problems users who are currently using the Weather app had:This gave enough ideas for me to include in the prototype we planned to build on Day 3There were many awesome quotes from this day but the best one was…My biggest takeaway from this day was that I was able to generate a good flow to my user interviews keeping the 4 list in my mind. After the first 3 interviews, I improved my questions and their order to get more structured answers that helped me focus on what improvements I can bring to the app.Initial unstructured questions:Improved questions:I could not do the affinity diagrams on Day 2 but I had a good idea what the problem areas were and how I will go about coming up with potential solutions to test them out in my prototypes.Based on the data collected from the user interviews. I drew my very first app prototype and it was amazing.Get sketchin’I made sure I included the below 3 features in the app and was really curious to see whether people will notice them, how they will behave and what I will learn from the usability tests.Link to POP prototype: I also want to mention the great feedback my colleagues provided for improving my app which helped me get rid of some things I didn’t notice while I was making it. Thanks guys :)Usability Tests:I tested this app out with 3 users and I used the customized scripts as suggested in the slides shared by Stacey.Scenario and task: It was raining really heavily outside, you want to quickly find out how long it will take for the rain to stop by using *this* app.This is what I found:I took notes while conducting all of these interviews and came up with the below affinity map which gave me the guidelines of what I need to improve on in the next iteration.What I will do better:Luke: We are not interested in their opinions as they are subjective. Focus on their behavior. See if they are getting confused about something and dig deeper to find the cause.If I had more time:We had to present all of this in front of the class. It was a lot of fun and our awesome instructors (Luke, Stacey and Kristin) gave us really helpful feedback.UX Design student at General Assembly NYC.

Senior, senior, senior…Two years ago, I started with the fantasy I would immediately get a job on a design team under a UX team lead. I thought I would learn while being coached and mentored on the job. After a few rounds of job applications, I learned a hard truth: junior design jobs are almost nonexistent.It goes back to the age old: Even the unpaid internships while in school don’t seem to help much. In addition, most new UX designers I’ve met (including myself) are transitioning from other fields. I’ve found there’s only one useful strategy: Fake it until you make it.At the beginning of my UX transition, I was hired at a startup for very little pay to do web design. During my interview, I told them I also wanted to do this new thing I heard about called UX design, even if that meant working extra hours. At this point, I had no experience with UX. I didn’t even know what a persona was.That experience gave me enough for my next round of interviews, and I was hired at a more established startup. Although I was being passed up for those jobs with the design teams, this new startup helped in a different way. I now worked directly with another team member who reviewed my designs. One step closer…Yet again, I’m in a position where I’m applying to jobs with only a little experience. However, I no longer view gaining experience as something that should be given to me, but taken for myself. It is your own responsibility to push yourself out of the junior designer level to be useful for companies that need mid-level designers.And now, back to job applications.Product Designer. Past 

On February 2014, I’ve joined a top leading broker of Binary Option to design an automatic/BI platform for Binary Option that will focus on reducing the human interaction, cut the costs on men power and the cost per lead. The expectation were to work quickly towards a product with higher conversion rates on FTD and retention.Since I didn’t know much about Binary Option, I started off by spending a lot of time in the office, meeting every team and workshop and asked them for their point of view on the market, processes, triggers and actions. I also read articles and explored what Binary Option is through the net, what are the benefits and what are the disadvantages of this method of trading. Obviously, I asked the most popular question, does anybody make profit off Binary Option?Further on to studying the product, I got an unlimited credits to play around but it wasn’t enough to really understand the excitement of investing, losing, winning, navigation, verification, being pushed, called, spammed, exc. I actually provided all my information and got calls from sales representatives (who had no idea that I worked with them) in which I acted as a user would, being slightly interested in investing. I wanted to experience the real deal until the point it got too much and made me experience the feeling of dropping the account.After experiencing the current platform, I pretty much knew what to expect from others. I figured out that the market is divided into 2 platforms that function pretty much the same but only showing different skins on the user-end. Anyway, I opened account on worthy competitors sites and listed what they do different (as a business strategy and features) and what they do the same, advantages I could use and what should be definitely taken off.Normally, I would go straight into watching user interaction recordings on similar products, learn the data, best conversion points, goals, motives and create surveys with users but this case was different.For the fact that the founders or workshop couldn’t really put a finger on what’s the user behavior or give me anything to work with (recordings, hotspots, analytical data, etc), I had to conduct few solutions to review who are the users from as many point of view as possible and understand why after 2 years in the market, they can’t tell me what types of users are out there.I figured that good sales come for a reason and a good starting point to learn the users will be asking the ones who manage to sell. I made a questionnaire for each sales agent (+200 agents):I could clearly see that users who come to Binary Option are more likely want to “make money” and it’s definitely something I would like to base on later but as I wanted to know more about the users (in order to cut the cost per lead) from an emotion and urge to specific goals and motives, the results were not informative enough so I suggested to approach this project in agile scrum framework and create an alpha version with personal agent, which will be able to get comfortable with the users and ask them for the information we need to know, along tracking their basic data and record their interaction.This alpha version could help me realize what the users want in a trading platform, get a clue of the marketing aspect, use of communications and conversion inside the app.I don’t believe in fiction personas so I pushed the research until the personal agent and the recordings provided enough information to work with.We decided to focus on the Alpha version in Mobile app for Android since the market didn’t have any product that would compete with us. Basing on an existing platform which willThe idea was to push forward the abilities of the Personal Agent to a human level by providing notifications about the market, trading information, push to action as well as texting manually to create interaction and ultimately be able to ask for the information we need.We based our product on an existing platform to cut the costs, avoid endless development and allowing implementation of existing features while adding our touch on the experience of compliance (account verification) and regulation.For big amount of restriction and requirements, along planning the solution, I had to validate my work and arrange meetings with the stakeholders, regulation, customer support, marketing, sales and development team including UI and interaction developers, server-side programmers.As part of deciding on The focus was to make the users end up either in Trading or Deposit screen. In addition to the attachment below, we have developed more edge cases and flows within the personal agent.For the Trading screen and states, I’ve encountered several problems which made me sketch around 50 solutions until we reached tothe perfect solution that promise easy navigation to trade information and simple use for trading again. Attached few examples:Further to designing and adding the brand look icon sets / colors / font and interaction, which you can see partly on All along the process of planning and solving the problems, I have been in meetings with the lead developer to make sure we have all the requirements and solution for the time we start developing intensively and of course been guiding daily the UI developer by finding solutions to visual problems, supplying with style guide, icons and interaction designs (made mainly by MarvelApp and After Effects).I definitely didn’t expect it but the conversion results actually were pretty good (88% of the users who downloaded the app completed Sign Up. ±7% invested money, 32% of them came back to invest more). The founders loved the results and the idea of having a personal agent in chat so they decided to stay with the concept, develop more features and try to improve the interaction with the users while working intensively on marketing. At this point I had to adjust to work more closely with creatives and marketing to brand and produce endless number of promotions.Honestly, I wasn’t satisfied with the results but was happy with the connection we managed to make with the users without conducting a wide research.Despite the huge loads of work on marketing and additions on working hours, I used my nights/weekends to explore the users in every possible aspect. I realized how many things can be improved and how much potential there is to make this market serve the user and increase the conversion rate.I stuck to the plan and started watching users interaction in our platform and messaged them with relevant questions to get feedback. In many occasions, I didn’t have to actually ask because I could clearly see the problems. I made personas based on real users, goals, motives and connected it with every piece of information I found to complete the full picture. I tried to focus on: What the usual tasks users take, When is most often to push users to take action, What are the things that push users to invest (mindset), What users feel at every part of the process (Sign Up, Trading, Notifications), What are the users insecurities using the product, What can we do to make the users feel more safe, What are the feelings and Urgency I would like to create in the user’s mind in each process.I categorized the users into groups of common goals and emotions for each group to make it easier to think of solutions.Also, I listed the screens with high quit rate, most engaging screens vs least engaging screens, usability problems and screens with longest time to take action.The most interesting insight (among many others) I had, was finding out the strongest emotions that drive users into trading with Binary Option or “gamble” overall. There are actually 2:I re-formed solutions for the platform based on the research. Unfortunately I’m not allowed to reveal all these solutions but here are some:By March 2015, the company started producing a lot more work polishing the existing application, adding more features and mainly expand marketing so I had to stop the plan.Senior Product Designer / 

This is the UK Government’s guiding vision, as they attempt to revolutionise public services online. This vision kicked off with the launch of GOV.UK in October 2012.Recently, The seeds for an online UK public services revolution were sown in 2010 when Martha Lane Fox, the “UK’s Digital Champion”, led a review of the government’s Directgov website.At the time, Directgov served as the government’s main hub for all online services. It became clear however that what was supposed to be a hub, was more of a landing-page for a whole world of online public services chaos. Each service was built and maintained by completely different agencies who worked autonomously, with little attempt at content curation. This meant that there was zero coherency in design, navigation, or content, as visitors tried to find out important information, or use a particular service. The scope of the review therefore quickly expanded, to include the government’s entire online strategy.This review culminated in Martha Fox’s letter of recommendation to Francis Maude, the minister responsible for driving the government’s “Digital by Default” approach. “The letter’s key recommendation was to:This she said would only be achieved by centralising publishing, and the necessary decision making powers, so that one coherent online experience could be realised for all the UK’s citizens.GOV.UK was to be new home for all of the UK government’s online services. To furnish this home, the websites and thousands of pages of content belonging to them were redesigned and migrated. Those sites currently include:As of writing this, Mark and the teams at GOV.UK are busy helping an additional 766 websites through the “discovery, alpha, beta and live” pipeline.Mark Sheldon and his team were initially responsible for the great lift at the beginning, which saw the migration of the Directgov and business link sites. This took place, from start to finish, in just 9 months.The GOV.UK team set out early on to provide a framework and set of guidelines, to support any agency or public body who wished to design an online service for the GOV.UK platform. Otherwise a coherent user experience would never be realised.To drive the efforts of standardisation, key stakeholders were asked to draw up a number of key points and learnings, from their own standardisation efforts. This led to a 26 point “Digital by Default Service Standard”. Every digital public service, whether it be a rebuild of an existing service, or a completely new service, MUST adhere to these 26 points. A panel of which Mark is on judges whether the service meets the requirements before migration. If not — it doesn’t go live.You can Leisa Reichelt, Head of User Research at the Government Digital Service (GDS), says user research is a “team sport.” And she doesn’t just talk the talk. She seems to do a pretty good job of walking the walk too, to the point that “all GDS team members are required to observe at least 2 hours of user testing every 6 weeks”. (So impressed! more on this in my concluding thoughts.)In true Agile style, the GOV.UK teams are comprised of members who represent the entire development chain. And to boot, they’re co-located too. This has helped ensure things move quickly and shared understanding can be built with as little friction as possible.Something which is easy to remember and easy to articulate. This acts as a lens through which all decisions can be looked at.Ensure you get buy in from the most senior person you can get hold of. They’re support is needed to help sweep aside problems and blockers as they arise. without them you’ll spend far too much time with bureaucracy, and too little on creating awesome services.Find out what your team’s fundamental truths are. Get them written down and own them. Some of Mark’s team’s principles include:(credited to Paul Saffo, Stanford Uni)Don’t write it down… build it. Build it in whatever fidelity is required, whether that be Paper, Powerpoint, HTML or whatever. Stick it in front of colleagues or potential users and get real feedback.I have to say, I was quite impressed by the whole GDS set-up. Especially considering the fact this is a department born from a government initiative. If “Government” and “bleeding-edge design and development techniques” were a couple in a bar they’d be getting a lot of confused stares. They just don’t traditionally fit. Obviously it does here though. They seem to really get Agile, and are reaping the full benefits. I can’t imagine anything other than an agile approach with co-located cross-functional teams being able to achieve the migration of sites the size of Dirtectgov and Business Link in 9 months… with user-testing!Most noteworthy for me was just how ingrained their user-centric design approach was. Many companies claim to be user-focused, but I’ve never heard of management supporting it to the point that they actually insist on all employees taking part in user-testing — and making it a formal requirement. This is really leading by example. Nothing is as powerful at increasing over all quality, along the entire development chain, as watching users actually use (or fail to use) what you’ve built. It’s humbling, it’s eye opening, and most importantly, I feel it gives teams the courage to get their ideas tested early. Not once they’re happy with it, but as soon as they realise an assumption just went into their UI, their flow or whatever. You’re reminded that humans are so spectacularly diverse that no one team, let alone one person, can foresee how their screens will be interpreted, or misinterpreted. Ensuring this realisation is fresh in everyone’s minds is time extremely well spent, and I’ll be taking this as an example to look up to.Despite how impressed I am by the entire execution however, I do remain sceptical towards the fundamental approach of GOV.UK. One destination for ALL of the UK’s citizens sounds great from a cost-saving/efficiency perspective, but not so great when it comes to crafting a superior UX.Without a doubt, their work over the past 4 years has led to an enormous improvement. You just have to compare screenshots to see that a more centralised approach to design and publishing is reaping benefits for the users. That said, the UK, like an increasing number of countries, has a citizenship comprised of many, many cultural groups. International cultures, religious cultures, national sub-cultures, class cultures, professional cultures and every other cultural sort in between is represented. To try and provide one UX which is effective at delivering relevant information and services, in an engaging manner, to such a diverse group is a nigh on an impossible task, and one can’t help but think many, many people are being left out.One major exclusion, straight off the bat, is support for foreign languages. I’m so, so disappointed by this fact considering the UK’s history, our political situation, and our dependence on immigrants to prop up our economy and health services. Doing UX in London, language MUST have been identified as a major barrier to getting information and access to public services in a “simpler, clearer” manner. How can this be missing if the decisions truly are user-centred?!? I know great experiences are realised by learning to focus, and say no more often than yes, but English only seems shortsighted at best considering the aims and audience.It will be interesting to see how GOV.UK develops. Judging by their speed so far, I won’t have to wait too long, but if it’s to be the one “preferred” url for all of the UK’s citizens, this centralised approach will only get them so far I feel. It works great for slick coherent design and orderly curation of articles and services. Without a doubt this has improved the experience. At some point though, to elevate the user experience further, GOV.UK will need to start thinking about how they can better cater to more specific groups of citizens, with vastly varying information needs. Otherwise they’ll just end up with a watered down UX that tries to balance the widely-varied needs of everyone, and fails to truly serve anyone.

Ryan Klein / General Assembly / UXDI Crows / Project 2Kazam! (no not My second foray into what a UX Designer does was to design an This project focused on the website of a local mom and pop toy store with 3 physical locations in Chicago. I was tasked with redesigning their existing website to account for the online shopping experience. Not only did the goals of the customers had to be met, but the business had to be considered as well. After all, without the business, what would the design afford for? The project aims to consider all the avenues, routes, and thoughts a user may take on the website to find and be made aware of items and go through a successful purchase cycle all while eliciting a feeling to want to do it again with ease and satisfaction.The finite details of the personas proved initially challenging. It dawned on me, what they wanted was what I was guility of in my own life: being picky and having wants. We all want to be heard and respected, especially in an e-commerce experience.I made a visit to one of their stores, respectively the Andersonville, Chicago location. I was met with a feeling of warmth, and after speaking with the manager for a while, it was clear the employees of the business demonstrated a passion for what they were selling. While the store was organized by section, it was a bit fuzzy as to what section had within each. For example there was a separate games section, but no discernable way of telling which games were specific age appropriate. The online store mimicked that, almost exactly. The physical store was clean in appearance, with the online store making little attempt to visually segregate what the naked eye couldn’t decipher.Additionally, I conducted a business analysis for the business’ online competition. With respect to the customers and business objectives, I looked at the different website layouts of Amazon, Target, and Marbles, a local toy store similar in its mission in delivering unique toys with an emphasis on children’s development through toys and games.Great! With the lightbulb still on, I blazed through to a solution.Here we are. With that eulogy, errr design direction, away I went to sketching: that place where those insights, data, and intuition start to take shape.After several second guesses and iterations, it wasn’t too bad. I felt good about the paper prototypes I created. I even made a video, yay for trailers! Not quite Sundance ready, but trending.I started out each test informing the user that this was merely a prototype, to keep in account I’m testing for functionality and visual display, albeit in black and white. I went with a baseline approach with asking them what e-commerce site they liked and didn’t like and the reasons for. Something strange happened, they The current website had an abundance of global common elements, The feedback received in user testing was positive in the simplicity and focused directions the pages could take you. That validated that not throwing everything at the wall sticks.The user testers indicated a preference to not having to commit to being an ongoing customer, at least on paper. What I mean by that is the option for checkout as guest needed to be addressed, and iterated.The testing also revealed that while customers want to truly know about the business, when it comes to how to amend a purchase by way of returns, the store’s heritage doesn’t matter. A separate returns section was curated out of those findings.The testing validated the prescience of how to truly assess the product before purchasing. The various photos and proposed 360 degree video elements as well as the reviews by actual purchasers of that product aided in comfortability of the process.Curious to see how it all functions? Check it out on With this being the second project, I was instructed to jump from a cliff into a medium size basin and scale my way out. I’m glad I did. I was happy with the outcome of this project because it was able to answer the challenges of my design. I’m feeling really good about how the design process has started to reshape my mind in how I see things in everyday life. I’ve started to analyze why certain process and things in life are the way they are, sometimes too often. I’m still a little hung up on my sketching, only because of the perfectionist side of me decides to hang around for a bit. Utilizing new tools like Omnigraffle and Invisision will only strengthen my UX skills going forward. I definitely have a new appreciation for how e-commerce sites are structured and their intent: to make you feel good about spending your money. The monetary transaction is merely a result of how someone feels, or experiences, the brand and its approaches, values, and awareness of customers. I’m not shy about asking and receiving feedback, that’s what helped me to grow the most in learning this process. Falling down is encouraged, don’t try to fall in a different direction each time. For all the problems you may have solved, another may appear. Hence, the world goes round and UX exists — to allow for the improved and respond to the unexpected. I think I might go buy something online. I’m not sure what or for what reason, but I’m sure my heuristic evaluations of gap.com’s sweater page may be tested. Until next time, this evolving User Experience Designer is out. Do I want cotton or wool and how does that make me feel?….ooohh and free shipping!

As I have been reading through Joshua Porter’s Apparently the first rule of UX design is: everything that a designer does affects the user experience.So how do we make sure that the decisions that we implement are communicating the intended message? We need to continually ask this question — “Does this element (ex. copywriting, color, alignment, layout, typography, etc.) support or contradict what I am trying to communicate to the user?”By being this detail oriented and purposeful, you will improve the “little things.” And these little things make a big difference.But wait … what is user experience? When I first heard of this term, I thought it had to do solely with product experiences. I didn’t understand that user experience is actually The interaction designer plans for all of these moments. All of these touch-points are important parts of the larger system.Hi, I’m [Lane-yah]. This is the story of how I entered [am entering] the design field. I design using behavioral psychology — with a stuffed Totoro by my side.

At the beginning of July, I got a letter from my health insurance provider (Coventry if you care) that they were terminating my insurance due to non-payment. Of course that same day I got a bill. And never got a So I called, complained, etc. For the past several months I have been fighting this. Not like we need insurance, I want credit for my money, or we need to take our medicine. The insurance provider is generally a jerk, and communicate poorly, and irregularly.Well today I finally, finally found out what happened. I never paid them.See, I submitted payments just like I have for the previous 18 months through my bank’s online bill pay system. And then that’s that. But today I find out that they were rejected, resubmitted, rejected again and my account (much later) credited.And of course I get letters in the mail about that, right? No.Emails, then, right? It’s online banking so email? No.Okay, one of those interstitials that greets you every time you log into to sell some service you don’t want. When there’s a critical message, they tell you there, right? No.No. You aren’t thinking like a bank. I’ve worked for bank. They think like this:Yeah, you sign on (if it’s even open, with their awesome 99% uptime), and then look near the stuff that’s so unimportant it’s small and gray and in the right corner. There’s the link to the Message Center, whichOh, but at least it’s full of BS marketing messages too, so even if I knew it was there I wouldn’t have been checking.And no one knows it’s there. The person at the bank I visited in person also didn’t know where it was.This all gets back to what I always rant about: UX is not color and type. It’s not movement and microinteractions. It’s not IxD, IA and ID. It’s about users and experiences. It’s about providing an end to end experience to service and solve problems for customers.Throughout this process I got so many bad experiences I cannot even remember them all. Between the insurance company, healthcare marketplace and my bank”If you see me writing, on stage or in a bar ranting and expounding on how almost none of us are really designing experiences, this is what I mean. Short of maybe the Disney Parks guys, we design a tidbit here and there with UX principles, very often a UI designer is hired and that box is checked, and meanwhile people are screwed out of using products, wasting their money, pissed at you, and As I see it, the key issue is everyone is insulated from the consequences of their bad decisions. IVRs are terrible because no one involved with them has to use them. Customer service people are minimally identified, if at all, so can tell you off and hang up because what are you going to do? “I’m sorry, I don’t design the website, but will pass it on…” from Customer Service.If you are Customer Service, Reformed unicorn, mobile UX design and strategy consultant, author, writer, and general complainer.

先日、とある会社に面談に行った時に出てきた質問。思わず「と、言いますと？」と聞き返してしまった。ちなみにその会社にはとっくにお祈りされている。全く会話のキャッチボールが成立しなかったので当然だろう。そして、今更思い起こして「実務のUXデザイン」って、何なんだろう？と頭を捻っている。これにバシっと答えられる方が居たら、教えてください。私は少なくとも、これだ！という答えにはまだ至っていません。しかしながら、UXデザイナーという仕事をしています。じゃあおめえ適当にやって金ふんだくってんのかコノヤロウと突っ込まれそうですが、そんなことないですよ。ちゃんと定量調査とか市場調査しますし、ペルソナに沿った設計しますし、ユーザーテストしますし。でもそういうのって全部手段じゃないですか。これやっとけばUXデザインだ！っていう類のものじゃないと思うんですよね。だから、これを“した”らUXデザインの仕事、っていうものは存在しないんじゃないかなと思うんですよ。思います。マインドセットって言うんですか？何をした、ではなく、やった理由の方。やる必要があったから、ペルソナ作ったりユーザーテストしたりするんですよね。では何故やったのか？と言ったら、それぞれの経験や知識や信念などが複合されて出来上がった「こうすべき」が根底にありますよね。それです。UXデザインって言ってますけど、UserExperienceDesignで1単語じゃないと思います。UXに配慮するデザイン。つまり、やってる事は古来から変わらず、デザイン。個人的にはそう考えてます。冒頭の質問を聞いた時に頭の中で出ていた回答は、恐らく、あの面談担当者はUXデザインによく用いられるフレームワークや調査フローなど、「UXデザインの手法」が私の口から出てこなかったので、ああいった質問をしたのでしょう。でも面談ですよ？手法のうんちくなんか垂れ流しても、しょうがないでしょう？UX フレームワーク でググればいくらでも出てきますそんなもの。「実務力」をアピールする場ですから、そのプロダクトはどういったコンセプトで、どういったターゲットを見据えて、どんな設計思想で作ったか。その話をするのに、フレームワークの話なんか要らないのですよ。散々言ってますけど、手法を否定するわけじゃありません。実際効率よくブレなく進行していく上で、フレームワークはとても有効です。どのセミナーとかでも絶対言われてるかと思いますけど、フレームワークはあくまで道具なので、うまく使えば強力であり、逆に使われる状態「フレームワーク遊び」になってしまっては元も子もない。という事です。これまで一緒に仕事をしてきた人達の傾向を見て思うのは、横文字のいかにもなフレームワークの結果を（使ったフレームワーク名付きで）企画書にズラズラと盛り込むディレクターやプロデューサーは、大抵ポンコツです。要点と結果だけ書いてる人は、優秀でした。なので、手法の話ばかりをドヤ顔でする人を、私は基本的にはあんまり信用しません。道具は道具。このスパゲッティは最新機種の電子レンジで調理されました。とか要らんのです。美味しいという結果が明確であれば、それでいい。あくまで個人の価値観に基づくUXデザインの捉え方なので、人によってまた全然違うこともあるかと思います。でも、人それぞれで良いんじゃないですかね？UXデザイナーだから画一的なUX観を主軸にしないといけない、とか無いと思いますし。もっというとデザイナーだからデザインから逸脱してはいけない、とか無いと思いますし。何年か経ってUXデザインが死語と化した後、じゃあ誰もやらなくなるのか？というと違うでしょうしね。だから、UXデザインって手法じゃなくて心構えだと思ってるんです。UXデザイナー。未知の価値を生み出すプランニングやってます。

A dumping ground for my thoughts on the world of User Experience. The plan is for this to be a growing list which I’ll keep adding to.These are my opinions, but feel free to borrow them, tweet them, let me know if you agree with them, disagree with them…UX Design Lead and Usability Specialist at McCann Manchester. These are my views 

In the next few months, by the end of every week, I am going to write a comprehensive guide to teach those who wants to become an UX designer how to set their foot in the door. The reason I am doing this is because I have decided to write about this for a very long time. In fact, when I landed my first designer job one year ago, I told myself I was going to do this. Every week I procrastinate, every week I felt guilt. This is going to change starting from now.When I was first looking for UX jobs, I had one goal in mind — to land a job as an UX designer. I had to gather information here and there, and spend a lot of time to filter out useful information, the process was not efficient. A lot of website would give me vague advice likeWhat I needed was what I can do So, this is what this guide is about: A concrete, step by step guide to land your first UX designer job. Stay tuned.I love beautiful design

I’m a great fan of awesome design and great user experience and while designing any stuff, the only question I ask myself is “How can I make life easy for users and how can they do what they want with minimum efforts.” Here are my so far observations based on my experiences.Elements should be consistent across the board. A tuneful user experience separates an amateur from professional. In effort to make it easy to use for our users, It’s essential to be consistent in both design and content of our websites.Do you find it difficult, in locating basic things at your home? No, because they’re in the same place they were last week. Consistency is logical coherence and accordance. It’s an uniformity among things and parts. Elements, content, interaction and design should be consistent to craft better user experience.User should not put tons of efforts to figure out what the heck he/she is looking at and how to proceed further. User experience should be so easy to use that they no need to check your FAQs and How to use section.Hierarchy of text and color should show the user what they are looking for. Highlighted text should be differentiated from other texts that they don’t need to put in extra effort to find what they want to check.Almost all the website has standard layout and consistent placement of particular things. This standard layout consists of header, footer, big banner etc. Consistent placement of menu, search icons, hamburger menu, dropdown chevron are same almost everywhere. Users are so used to it.For example, users know, if they want to search something, they need to look into header. If there are three bars on the corner, that will open up a menu. Instead of re-inventing the wheel, we should follow the conventions where users are comfortable.Be clear at what you’re proposing to users. That might be an important information or a button with text “Buy now”. Be clear with fonts, colors, content and conventions.If you’re presenting an information and font is not clear, or not readable due to color, what’s the point of that! If you’re warning them on certain action in black text, it won’t warn them. As you use red with general message, user will think it as a warning.Pricing is an area where clarity is everything. Users won’t click on “Buy now” unless they know what are they paying for. Clarity will bring user experience to the next level.It’s not enough to design for users with different hardware and browsers, design for users with different abilities. While thinking about design, you should think for every edge cases.You need to think of color blinds who are facing problems in identifying colors. Around 8% of men and 0.5% of women have some sort of color deficiency. You don’t want them to miss out on your application.We should also think about users with no color knowledge. Here both the colors are different for the designers but for users, it’s same. So if you want to show something meaningful, Better to use different color which is easily differential to each other.Is your application actually making sense in Mobile? Are you showing the things user want to see? Are users able to find what they actually care about in responsiveness? When you answer these questions, you achieve perfect responsiveness.Users have different priorities when they land on mobile and tablet. When they are on mobile, they might not be interested in settings, they want to check their notifications first. When they are on a small device, they might not want to check all the graphs in detail, they might just want to jump to the conclusion and some important stats.Responsiveness is not just a mobile first approach coding, it’s actually to understand user priorities and present stuffs accordingly.I’m a big fan of this. Users love simple things. It is the hardest thing to achieve. Simplicity is not just one text with black and white background. Simplicity is a super simple and extremely smooth experience that doesn’t require extra annotations or user guide.It’s often said that don’t design for yourself but design for your audience. Are you really designing for your audience? It’s easy to judge the user experience of your own product, you should walk a mile in someone’s shoes to really evaluate it. Don’t forget to keep the experience simple, clean, clear and smooth.If you need my help, reach me out at Cheers!Entrepreneur. Designer/Developer. UI/UX Consultant. Photographer. Coffee Connoisseur. Purveyor of fine mischief. All things about UX and how can we improve it?

While working on my own projects, I noticed some design patterns for any time a user needs to add an item to a list. See what I learned below:The sites I viewed did this by making a selection in a dropdown menu. The action was permanent and left feedback with a link to the list page or redirected them to the list page automatically.Several sites have different solutions to multi-select, however most of them are a variation of the good ol’ checkbox.Product Designer. Past 

UX Poland is steadily growing, what started a couple of years ago has become one of the larger UX events in Europe. This years edition consisted of a 4 day conference that finished exactly last week (20–23 April). The first day included TED-like presentations from leading UX experts, such as Lisa Marshall from Zappos and The 2nd and 3rd day consisted of multiple workshops, including two day masterclasses taught by industry professionals from all over the world.The last and final day gave us a batch of fascinating keynotes by leading UX experts such as Over the years Poland has become one of the more innovative and rapidly changing countries in the EU. Since I moved to Warsaw in 2007, a lot has changed and I still consider it be a constantly evolving city in the heart of Europe.This is clearly visible at UXPoland, where one of the masterclasses concentrated on researching and creating ideas that can potentially transform Warsaw into a so called ‘Smart City’. The masterclass participants defined the cities needs and goals, researched within the city area and later generated ideas and created rapid prototypes that where presented to the city representatives.I attended the User Research workshop held by Our group got the chance to interview three managers at leading hotel chains throughout Warsaw. Since the managers thought that we were actual booking.com employees we were able to get straight into buisness and to the world of user research. This was a wonderful experience and showed us quickly that sometimes not having as much initial exposure to the examined industry might by an advantage since we are able to dismiss some of the bias one might have towards an already known topic. On the second day, all the groups gathered, and discussed our findings and within 5 hours presented all our findings.The last and final day of the conference was held at the iconic Palace of Culture and Science. Starting strong with Josh Payton from Huge who underlined what later became clear topics among this years conference —The importance of a product ecosystem was later also discussed by Andrea Picchi whose whole speech was about building ecosystems. Another clear thread among this years edition of UX Poland was the importance of human experience.Another amazing presentation was by Nathan Shedroff from the California College of Arts, whose talk concentrated on the value design brings to businesses and how often this element is overlooked. Nathan also demonstrated that relationships with users (In summary, UX Poland was definitely a great experience that I will be sure to attend in the upcoming years. The conference displayed industry trends and enabled UX professionals from all over the world to meet and exchange ideas in the fantastic capital of Poland.Writing about UX, Research, Psychology and a better world.

I came across an unfinished sketch that looked like a wireframe of a prototype lying on the meeting room table with these words scribbled…Design notes:Assumptions:The answer lies in the question(in association with the University of Hard Knocks Press)

Nasıl deneyim olmadan “kullanıcı”nın bir anlamı olmuyorsa, kullanıcı olmadan da “büyüme”den veya onu “sürdürülebilir kılma çabası”ndan bahsetmenin anlamı olmuyor. Gelin, hem sürekli birbirleriyle kavga eden hem de birbirlerinden asla ayrılamayacak bu ikilinin ilişkilerine hızlıca bir göz atalım.Bilmem anlatabildim mi?Full time Family Man, Part Time Entrepreneur, IOS Patient. Founder of DAM Startup Studio. Büyümenin mühendisliği üzerine yazılar

During the event we share our UX tips  tricks and have 1:1 sessions to go through your product, review its design and propose potential enhancements. All to help you grow your business further.Come along, bring your latest design sketches, mockups, wireframes or prototypes and:We review design of your app or website  suggest how to make it uber-awesome: from usability to visual design 

GameSalad Does Credit Card UX Right.I logged into What a great experience. The digital representation matched the physical real world model of a credit card. Kudos to whoever came up with this. It’s great, it’s easy and I wish more sites would adopt this flow.Curious UX practioner, Jolly Good Fellow, Clevelander, on the Jiu Jitsu path

Ryan Klein / General Assembly / UXDI Crows / Project 1Holy UX Batman! A big week for this guy: my first endeavor into becoming a UX Designer. Just 9 more to go! Yay for more learning! (Ok, so I’m one of those weird dudes who likes to learn and grow from experiences, so what?)My first foray into what a UX Designer does was to design a This project focused on productivity at home. While I’ve always been very structured in time management and efficiency of getting stuff done like cleaning, I’d rather be doing something more fun. I’ve always motivated myself by rewards earned though activities performed. The project aims to make a conscious effort of intertwining household chores we feel we need to do with fun activities we would rather be doing.Before embarking on independenly interviewing my research participants, I wanted to set a baseline for how I would get all the answers I can by asking the least of amount of detailed and compounding questions. I focused my questions on the goal of achieving how each user conveyed both pain and pleasure points. Each user told a unique story about their feelings associated with being productive in their respective home. A funny thing happened: each participant associated both chores (i.e. dishes  laundry) and fun activities (i.e. playing video games  watching television) as part of being productive at home. Additionally, each participant noted that some type of physical device would help to remind them to be productive. We’ll get to what entity that may entail in a minute. That intial awkward state of asking direct questions led to effortless, enriching conversation. Those wealthy chats lead to some interesting insights.The partipants pointed out a desire they’d rather do activities eliciting fun than mundane activities. Each of them noted incorporating a physical entity like their phone would aid greatly in user’s access and usage. Then, like the Red Sea parting, it was clear what the problem statement was — yes, I got this! “But wait,” thinking to myself, “keep your thoughts and opinions to this topic separate from what the design is to achieve. This Ok, so that’s great and all, but what would that design achieve?The data indicated a preference to easy access via mobile device. The concept of an app was born: use fun activities as a reward to get people to do their chores in a trade-off fashion. 10 minutes/chores would equal 10 minutes/fun. Like my mother imparted on me, clean your room then you can play outside. Great, a problem was established and solution was proposed. Let’s talk about how that idea became a product.Although this was an alpha version of the design process, I was really happy with the good, quality work put forth on this project. This project, and process, instill the discipline to stay with and within each step. It’s very easy for your mind to go immediately to the finish line when you have yet to learn the skills necessary to get the trophy. Embracing this process will only help in refining my skills and adding to the tool box of what is good design. What I look forward to most is exploiting the skills I’m building on with enhancing the skills I have yet to acquire. Without rapid prototyping, this idea would only exist in my head. The importance of walking a user through the process and the allowance for questions about alterations make for great constructive criticism and effective user feedback. The data has no ego in the research, only a selfish interpretation of that can negatively affect the design. I think its time to go watch television for 3 hours, it’s my reward for reflecting on my 1st week of learning how to be a great UX Designer…

An example of user experience at a public school library.I had the most wonderful experience at my school’s library this week. Never had I made it to the 4th floor. In fact, the library here has always been…intimidating. Full of super studious, super quiet people, or super talkative, super chic people. My previous university was a little more chill.Anyway, it was still so difficult to find anything in my ex-library (good riddance!). Sure, there was the good old Dewey Decimal system, still in place after all these years. Learned it in the 1st grade and yet, a catalyst for labyrinths.And as much as I like feeling confused, I really don’t. So imagine my wide grin as I stepped off the elevator on the 4th floor of Michigan State’s library and saw the following sign:At first, I almost walked off in the opposite direction, but then I wondered “Why is this sign so colorful? Why go the full length when bw is cheaper?” Then I looked down, saw the colorful tape, and lit up like a match, knowing that someone here on this very campus knew my plight and wanted to make the library the place I’ve always wanted and more.I found the right color tape and followed it down, in between the stacks, through the enticing aroma of ages, and straight to my book.A journey of awe and discovery—in less than five minutes.Games, Planes, and Automobiles: Game, UX, ID, Tech Enthusiast | Quarter-time Comedian | MSU Grad Student | Occasional Soup Slurper

A Smartwatch is not a Smartphone.But, what kind of apps and experiences should be on a Smartwatch? What is good user experience on a smartwatch and how could you create it?At German version of the presentation:UX, Mobile, Multiscreen, Strategy. Passionate to build great Products. Head of Concept at CELLULAR GmbHThoughts about Mobile UX, Mobile Product Design,  Mobile Services and Apps

So why isn’t “the interface is not the experience” a reasonable means of summarizing a point?Stephen C. Rose: Kindle Store Be heard, read, admired and — most of all — respected. Join Everything Comes. Just write 

Last week, screenwriter and producer When trying to create a successful product, making decisions based on data vs. intuition can become frustrating. To merge the two worlds of thought, use storytelling. Designers will be delighting users but still using scientific data to reinforce decisions.“Story is the matrix that brings those two together and creates delight,” Bentley said.Personas and scenarios are the most commonly used UX storytelling tools, however they are best used in when designed in teams.“Design is at its best when it’s collaborative,” Bentley said. “If the design director is great, the department heads will also be great.”Bentley also emphasizes the importance of the middle of a design story. Many designers only focus on the initial problem and the end result. Using methods such as storyboarding or comic strips may help develop the entire user journey.While at an art museum looking at an abstract painting, many people will be gathered around the information card, looking for an explanation of the work. Our brains are trying to create meaningful stories all the time.“It’s what our brains are meant to do.” Bentley said. “Story is the most elemental model we have.”Examples of story telling can be found in everywhere in daily life such as the scientific method (hypothesis, test, conclusion), philosophy, magic shows, etc.As seen multiple times in tech history such as during the Final Cut 10 update or the endings to Mass Effect 3, users can become very passionate and outspoken about their digital software. Designers are not “modifying a process, but interrupting a relationship,” according to Bentley.Neurology helps designers understand how this process works. Users remember emotionally competent stimuli such as a child breaking their arm, but they don’t remember emotionally neutral stimuli such as going to the grocery store. Designers need to remember users memory filing systems are emotion-based.To harness the power of emotion-based memories, designers need to create a delightful experience. Bentley uses a technique from dramatic writing. At each stage of the user journey, she asks these questions:How do they FEEL? What do they HOPE for? What do they FEAR? What do they DO?Bentley encourages designers to be “emotionally rigorous.”“Messy bits are as real and important as the pragmatic part of the user,” Bentley said.Bentley ends the talk with one last piece of advice: “Lets use stories and all it offers to sculpt experience to craft future, happy memories into imagined technologies that make all of us more fully human.”See the full recorded talk Product Designer. Past 

Last Sunday, I attended the UX Hackathon at General Assembly along with about 200 other people. We were told to split in to teams of 5–10 and prepare to draw a topic. My group drew “music” and “make sourcing easier.” We had six hours to make a design with wireframes and a presentation.I wasn’t thrilled about this topic because there are already a plethora of music apps out there. Thankfully, we only had to add to an existing app instead of create one from scratch. The group quickly saw there were two main skill areas: marketing and interaction design. Everyone who was more comfortable developing personas, completing competitive analysis and building our presentation was on one team, while the rest of our group, the interaction designers, were on another team.It took about an hour to discuss the music industry, find the problem and target an audience for the solution. One group member pointed out that the radio and discover features of spotify were not very good because they were only based on an artist you liked and not other things such as mood or activity. We decided it would be even better if a user could customize the radio to play a mix of their preferences. For example, the user would hear 20% Rolling Stones, 30% Happy, and 50% walking for a radio station. If the user wanted more Rolling Stone-related music, they could change the ratio.At this point, we started brainstorming visualizations from a mobile perspective. Our group took over a small hallway that was covered in whiteboard paint. We needed every inch of that hallway for drawing.After several hand-drawn wireframes and simplification of our data viz, we were ready to make digital wireframes. I used fireworks because I was the fastest in that program, barely getting it all done before the presentation.Seventeen presentations later, the winners were announced. Unfortunately, our team did not place, and several judges said our feature was only geared toward power users. However, I was proud of the work we had done and was happy to have had a chance to practice ux while making some friends. I would definitely attend a similar event in the future.Product Designer. Past 

Google Analytics can be daunting and even for those who have been using it for a while, it may not be obvious how versatile it can be for researching the strengths and weaknesses of the overall User Experience (UX) of your site. At present there is a lot of choice when it comes to digital products, so it is essential to design with attentiveness for each interaction scenario to work perfectly. Your site needs to do more than just do its job, it needs to be straightforward to use, navigate and of course look great. In some industries, for example travel, you would likely be prepared to fly with a budget airline, because at the end of the day it’s still going to get you to your destination. With a digital product, there’s so many on the market, you need to be Emirates First Class standard, more or less flawless, to make your product stand out.With many products it’s unfeasible to foresee all possible cases of usage, so we need user behaviour feedback and regularly in order to make consistent suitable improvements for our users.Google Analytics (GA) is a free tool, mostly considered to be for marketing purposes. When it comes to the UX analysis of Google Analytics (meta UX!) they have produced a very effectual tool for any UX researcher needing a fast and dependable image into how people are using their site. Highly visual, it presents the facts in front of you in a range of charts. To utilize you simply paste in a small snippet of JavaScript and your journey of insight can begin. Bon Voyage!The Tracking Structure of GAStarting with the basics, with GA you can have multiple Accounts, Properties and Views.At the top level is an Prior to you configuring a report, first have a think of what you would like to discover. You wouldn’t go on holiday without at least an outline of what you wanted to do/see when you get there. Or perhaps the more adventurous amongst us would, but when it comes to GA your results will be better-quality if you know what you’re looking out for.Standard Page-view TrackingBasic default tracking kindly provided by GA allows you to find out some more information about your users, no, not what their favourite colour is (regrettably this isn’t online dating), but information like:Where did users enter and where do they abscond on the websiteWhat paths did they take through the siteWhat technology was used (desktop or mobile, OS, etc.)Due to GA Standard Tracking being more orientated towards marketing, generally you won’t receive much insight based on this into user interactions. You can nonetheless, gain power by syncing your tracking code with a Behaviour FlowThe Behaviour Flow GA Report lets you know how users are navigating your website. I’m sure there is a way in your head, which makes sense to you, for them to find their way around your site. But just like a teacher, leaving the room for five minutes, if you leave people to do their own thing, there will be some who will do the opposite and least rational thing.Thankfully, for us, the Perhaps not that interesting to anyone else, but without doubt worth knowing to improve your overall UX.Funnels and GoalsThis section helps you to see all the ‘ifs’ and ‘how’s’ of the website fulfilling its purpose. The types of goals you might use GA to analyse are website objectives, sales conversions are a common example of a goal. Funnels show the predefined steps taken to reach that goal.Access goals in the As you may or may not have guessed, the funnel in GA is not a plastic kitchen tool, nor a ship’s chimney. These funnels are a way of visualising how the user works their way through your website’s succession of events. You are able to define up to 20 steps for each goal with each goal indicative of a page hit or virtual page hit and then analyze the performance of each step. It is best to create a funnel step at any point where a user is able to abandon your scenario.Goals and Funnels are invaluable for tracking how well your website/product is fulfilling its objectives as you will be able to monitor its overall performance and locate the points where it most commonly fails.You can use the Although this tool is very helpful, if a funnel shows 0% or 100% users passing conversion, there is probably an error in your set up. There should be some passes and some turns at every step, regardless of simplicity of the step, so if this happens, you should probably double check your set up.GA Event TrackingMinor details and micro-interactions are crucial to a smooth user experience, even though they can’t be tracked as page views on GA because they would interfere with behaviour flow reports.This is where GA Event Tracking can be to your advantage. Events in GA represent a stand -alone action, taken by a user and these are straightforward to track if you set them up properly. Select context menu opening or list view change.Any event you set up is custom and has 4 properties defined by you:All of your event reports can be found under TimingOften disregarded in UX, there will be an occasion when you want to track time. By tracking timing you can establish if users are hitting a sticking point in your path (think flight delayed) or find themselves powerless to complete a given task (flight cancelled.)Questions you could ask yourself here include; how rapidly did users reach their goal? How much time did a specified operation or action take? What points of the site keep users waiting? Which micro interactions perplex users or require more time?GA itself doesn’t provide a timing function but the trick is that you will need to assess time by any means you have (e.g. a simple timestamp comparison in JavaScript.) Subsequently, provide timing data in your custom hit tracking code, where you should specify 4 parameters, which are:Once this is done you can analyze all your tracked timings in User Timings. Again go to Use these tools to reveal key information for bettering your product. The key is to knowing what your users want and these five features will provide you with all the data you need to assist you with figuring that out. Treat the tools as a way of collecting feedback, start with a question that needs an answer and see what your GA Reports can teach you. Just because there is five tools, doesn’t mean it is necessary to employ them all for every product. Think of a question, select a tool you think will help find the answer, and allow yourself to be enlightened.Using our digital creativity to enhance your brand

I have to develope my UX skills because I need to be able to create great experiences for web users. I’m probably not alone in that. You may be working with a startup that has no UX specialist. You may be working in an enterprise that has no UX specialist. You may be working alone, and you’ve learned that features don’t sell subscriptions.Join me.I’ve recently stepped down from my project management role at one of the world’s leading Ruby on Rails web development shops to take the reins of But that’s not enough. There is a lot of new competition appearing and features alone won’t continue to grow our user base. To do that, I need to learn to connect with them, understand them, and create the kind of experience that doesn’t just meet their needs, but makes their lives better. So much better that they help me to evangelize the product and re-invigorate our slagging sales growth curve.I’m not quite starting from point zero. I did a design minor as an undergrad and I have a degree in anthropology and continued to take advanced courses in qualitative research methods during my masters studies. But that was a long time ago. I’m also good at interviewing, but my experience has been limited to journalism and what ethnographic interviewing I’ve done had more to do with “classic” ethnographic scenarios aimed at producing an ethnography, not for driving urgent business decisions.So, if you can identify — if you need to learn design, user experience, customer development, lean startup, copywriting, and lean UX skills quickly — follow along. I’ll be doing at least one experient each week and sharing here what I read, what I did and what I learned as I set out to become the UX expert that Kanbanery needs me to be.Interests and expertise: Roman history, Shakespeare, SE Asian studies, business anthropology, lean and agile software development, lean startup, autism

Je za námi 2. výukový víkend UX Akademie. Hlavní téma výuky bylo seznámit nás s uživatelským výzkumem, převážně prezentováno Tento víkend jsem vyhlížel s velkým očekáváním — výzkum je něco, co mě rozhodně láká, protože jsem jeden z těch, který si rád věci ověřuje nějakou analytikou.Sobotní program začínal prezentací našich domácích úkolů a celkově debatou kolem nich. Největším objevem asi bylo to, že jsme původní vcelku neupřesněné zadání pochopili každý jinak, domysleli jsme si tam určité části. Z toho plyne velké doporučení — Ještě bych dal možná jeden tip, tentokrát ohledně moodboardů. Pokud používáte moodboardy k prezentaci klientovi, Jak jsem psal — celý víkend byl o výzkumu. Vyzkoušeli jsme si několik technik, ať už se studenty navzájem nebo v konverzacích s lektory. V tuto chvíli plánuju první výzkumy v projektu, na kterém pracuju, a jakmile budu mít i nějakou praktickou zkušenost, rád se o své dojmy podělím. Do té doby na méně vážnou notu — tady je takový malý videotip k uživatelskému testování něčeho, s čím se setkáváme každý den.Chtěl jsem taky poznamenat, že UX Akademii nevnímám pouze jako místo, kde do nás někdo nalije techniky a moudra o uživatelském testování. Vnímám to i jako formu koučinku, který se nás snaží naučit nastavit si mindset trochu jinak, často se i zamyslet nad nastavením celého svého workflow.Z právě končícího víkendu si asi odvážím tu myšlenku, že cokoliv chci dělat, je dobré zabalit do nějakého cíle. Student UX Akademie, freelancer i korporační product manager. Nadšenec do frontend technologií a designu.Moje cesta do světa UX

Content blocking is a new The graphic below depicts the impact on web browsing performance using a content blocker (In order to speed up the browsing experience the content blocker will deny access to common user tracking scripts, such as Google Analytics. The script will not be able to know who the user is. Who in this case is the users web browser aka Traffic analysis has become a very cost effective user research method nowadays. Google Analytics is free until your audience goes somewhere beyond the millions. The tool has evolved to a point where you can effectively understand the users behaviour on your site, and build personas from it, without ever getting in touch with a real user. The persona you build may not even be accurate, or even exist, but if you are reading the data right and exploring the paths its a world of A/B tests right in your face. Which is another very cost effective technique.It never was. It was never meant to be. But I fell in love with it, so easy, so fast. It is always readily available. Its real time. Its free! You can manipulate data and back your projects with hard numbers. No wonder this spread so fast in the ux field. A few years ago lab testing was hot. Nowadays it feels like it takes so much time, the sample size is small, its in a lab, it costs so much… I took the fast lane, all right…None of these two methods should be employed alone. Some very important questions about In the short term Apple is unequivocally taking a step with the best possible user experience in mind and this cascades down to our own practice as user experience professionals. We all know that we should be doing much more user research than we actually do. Research, in its many formats, allows us to better understand the users context and uncover insights.Louis Rosenfeld condensed some graphics inside an This other one is from If you keep yourself updated this is nothing new to you. The breadth of methods and research planning is vital to a healthy user experience practice.This article is just a reminder for us not to get lazy. The content blocker experiment comes to shake us up a bit. Its too easy to fall in the analytics pit. Your boss or company cant afford another method? Dont have time? Youd better start thinking on a way out of this pit or you will be back to It may be some time until this creates a reflection on how we work, if ever, but this is one change I would like to see.

Here are 10 tips on how to make the most of your user interface copy, divided into The word “you” is just like using your name, it catches your attention. More importantly it establishes a relationship between you and your reader. As the reader reads your copy they feel as if it is written for them. Not convinced? Let me rewrite that paragraph without “you”:The word “you” is just like using a persons name, it catches their attention. More importantly it establishes a relationship between both people.That’s a lot less engaging, isn’t it?Look at how often We know you have worked so hard to create a stand out product, it’s hard to keep that to yourself. But why should I care? All I care about is how your product is going to make my life better.Speak your mind. There is no need to use fancy “big” words to get your point across. Choosing words based on their “sophistication” can actually unimpress readers. If you have something smart to say you shouldn’t have an issue.Always keep your audience in mind. If you’re designing in a technical environment then using big words can work. Majority of the time you want to aim for a 5th grade reading level. You can test your copy with When you write you tend to just let things spill out onto the page. Often, what looks right on the page sounds awkward out loud. You always want to make sure that what you’re writing flows in a conversational style. If it’s not conversationally written it is less likely to be engaging.Go through your copy and chop it in half! Eliminate all of the “fluff.” People want to get to the facts, majority of the time they don’t care about your clever rhymes. Just get rid of it.Say what you need, no more, no less.Get your ideas out on the page. Trying to focus on writing and editing at the same time will result in a jam. There is no need for it.We’re not telling you to actually write drunk. Just don’t write and edit at the same time.Keep in mind that you don’t have to edit alone. Re-read your copy and make it your very best. Have another pair of eyes read through it and see what they say.As a designer it is important to always keep the message your trying to portray in mind. You have to be able to create a visual story that goes hand in hand with the copy.Although you know what you’re looking at and understand it doesn’t mean your audience will. People don’t know what they’re looking at unless you tell them.It’s very useful to use your headlines and your labels. Make sure that from just the headline alone your reader will be intrigued and understand the content to follow.Often times people don’t read what you have written. Instead they quickly scan through looking for a link. Make sure that it is extremely clear what your links will lead to.Here Apple is using specific link language:Thanks Apple for letting us know where the link will take us.Just about every design decision you make will impact the copy, so you need to make sure that it’s enhancing the copy and not hindering it.For instance, you could want to use an image of a super-tall product shot that looks beautiful, but remember that the image as to balance out with the copy. If there is not enough to be said about the super-tall product then the balance between the two will be off.When it comes to figuring out how long your copy should be, keep this simple rule in mind: if the product is unfamiliar, complex or expensive, you’ll usually need more content.Visit us @ Questions? Contact us @ Through common interest and aligned visions, we bring the experts, the craftsmen, and the talented to where they are most valued and needed.

Like many of you, I have an amazing elder sister. She gifted me a Macbook Pro recently. Well, she transferred me the money for it and I was supposed to buy it from Amazon.inNow while using my debit card to make the purchase, the transactions got declined and I had From the helpline I got to know that the debit cards I had been using, had a I did leave this as a comment in a feedback to Amazon, asking them explicitly to acknowledge it, but I never got anything from that side. I believe this will make for a good customer experience, where users will be clearly notified in the beginning that any account related problems will be shown to them, for which their explicit consent must be required i.e. people can refuse this service. (No one wants to be embarrassed while shopping online, when a message saying “not enough money in your account” comes on screen.)What say Amazon? :):D

“The To-Do” AppMy problem for this project was to create a to do list style application that was catered to a specific market based off of their usage and wants. I wanted to figure out why, or why not, people use to do list apps, or variations of the sort, and what is the real reason behind their actions. I wanted to discover the emotional and mental aspects as to why people use to do lists and what significance it holds to that user. As a person who commonly uses to do list applications (in a rather ineffective way) I wanted to make an application where a user can create to do lists and follow through with them, fulfilling the true purpose of a to do list. I know that this is an issue I personally face with to do list and I feel that with the right application I would actually complete to do lists. To do lists are commonly used and created, but I wanted to discover how many people actually use these application, why people often use note applications over to do list apps, and how users can use to do lists in the most effective way. Why do people make to do lists and what makes them complete these tasks?To get a better understanding of how a user utilizes to do lists, I first I conducted 5 user interviews, asking a series of questions starting as simplistic as “Why do you use to do apps?” and moving toward questions about motivation and reinforcement. Some of the questions I asked were:After completing these user interviews I synthesized my data into categories to find trends and patterns within the users’ responses. I found many different answers and quite a few revelations. One of the interesting aspects that I discovered was that 3 of the 5 users did not use to do list apps at all. Those three used the notes application on their phone to create lists. Interestingly enough the reasons that those users did not use an app were the similar to the concerns that people who did used apps faced. Some of the common threads I found in all of the interviews were:From this information I was able to create my target user:And the design problem I wanted to fix:From there I went into the sketching phase. I wanted to create an interface that was clean, simple, categorical, with easy-to-add tasks and catered to reminders and motivation to finish tasks. I felt that I may have incorporated too many aspects into the app, but I felt that reminders and motivation could easily go hand in hand, and that the categories could solve the issue of lists being too time consuming to make.For my sketches I started out with a two sectioned opening page. The top half was where you create a new list, and the bottom portion was were existing lists were. I felt that it was important to break up the two sections so that the user can avoid having too many options on one page and seeing information they didn’t need to.When you click on the create button, the user can create a new list, which will take them to a second page of categories of tasks. Once a category is clicked, it will take them to a page of existing tasks to choose from in that category. The user will also have the option to customize. My thoughts were that this could save the user time by only having to click on a task rather than type out specific items. When the user clicked on a task they would be prompted to enter a time to be completed with the task, a time for reminders to be send and how many times reminders should be sent (realizing now that my options should have been flipped in my prototypes), and then the option to click on a happy or sad face to choose the type of reinforcement they would like the reminder to be, positive or negative. Back on the home page, the user can click a list on the bottom half of the page which prompts them to a page of tasks in that list that can be checked off when completed. My initial sketch was very rough and didn’t have properly labelled items, which threw off the user in my testing, which I will get to later, but I realized that in order to go into prototyping phase, or at least have a successful prototype, that I would have to make those options much clearer. My second design iteration came after user testing. I cleaned up the lines, made the options more clear, and specified the pop up menus to make it easier for the user to understand.From there I moved to my prototyping phase and conducted three user interviews. Here is a link to my prototype if you would like to give it a run:To test my prototype I did two in-person user tests and one over FaceTime, with my mom who isn’t exactly the most savvy with ‘the tech’. With each user test I prompted the same two tasks:2. Check off a task on an existing to do listI did a second design iteration after my first user test did not go as well as planned. Here is a video from the first user test:I found from this test that without the clarity of the categorical and list options, my user was lost and needed guidance. This was one of the biggest changes I made to the design to make it more clear to the users. My user from the first test also suggested that I make the customized option more clear because he felt that he had no option but to pick a preexisting option, which troubled him, and this was a fix that I definitely wanted to make.My second two user tests went a little differently, and much more successfully. I conducted my second test with my roommate who was in a hurry and didn’t have much time to be bothered, which made testing difficult but was the exact mold of my target user and I figured that if she could figure it out in a short time, then the app successful. I prompted her with the same two questions and she was able to get through the task successfully without any issues, but she did suggest a larger home icon because it was confusing as to how to get back to the home page after she had completed the first task. The third test I did was with my mother, over FaceTime. I had her talking to me over the phone while filming her steps and while this was a complicated process, she had a more difficult time figuring out how to turn the camera on FaceTime then getting through my tasks for my prototype which was reassuring. A suggestion from her was to make the pop up box for adding a new task a little more clear and make the font a little bigger because she was confused what the smaller boxes were describing.All in all 2 of the users said they would use the app based off of its simplicity and reminders, and all three of the user testers found the positive and negative reinforcement for the reminders to be fun and one of their favorite parts of the app.I feel that I was pretty successful in solving my problem, on a very small scale, but on the right track. I think that ideas for the app that I created helped to solve many of the problems that users complained about in their interviews. I also think that I may have gone too far addressing all of those problems rather than honing in a few big time issues and making sure to solve them fully. I do think that through my user research and some of my user testing I was really able to figure out the questions that I was curious about in the beginning of the project and figure out what could really help a user to finish a to do list and use it in the most effective way. I feel that I have way more steps to go in order to make my app align exactly with the problems I found but I think I created a good platform for addressing the issues. I learned a lot about the UX experience and gain a lot of great insights bout how the process works through the project.To summarize, through my five user interviews and synthesizing my results through categorizing and affinity mapping, I was able to find that users want a to do list that is quick, efficient and easy to use. They want a to do list that reminds them to complete task and motivates them to do so. This is very common among users with an on-the-go lifestyle and a full plate. I found through my user research that people agreed with a simplistic layout and liked the motivation aspect of the application, and enjoyed how quick the application could be used. Each interview and test, lead to a slightly different design iteration, starting from an over simplistic version of an interface to a more thought out and intricate, but clear option, to help the users create and and efficiently use the to do list app.

I’m happy to repost this image, it’s just shows us the difference between design (probably visual) and the user experience. Wish you to think first of all about UX, then with visual design.What is interesting in Japan people use strategy like “see where people will pass, then make the track”.Designer  Entrepreneur

User experience design is the process through which a user’s needs are taken into consideration. This occurs at every stage of output, from the initial brainstorming through design, to launch and beyond. The user’s interaction with a website — and their emotional response to it — remains at the forefront of thought at all times.This is all well and good, you might think, but what on earth does this mean for my business?If your customers can’t engage with your website in a meaningful way, it reflects badly on your product. If the website itself is your product, or if your website is the main gateway to your product, your business is immediately at a disadvantage when it comes to customer engagement.How often have you visited a business’s website, looking for specific information, only to discover that the site is out of date or unresponsive? Or, worst of all, the info you want is buried so deep, hiding among sidebars and tabs, that unearthing it practically requires an archaeology degree?That right there is an example of bad UX design.There’s no need for UX design to be flashy; user engagement is the most crucial component. UX design is the best bridge between your needs and product and the customer’s needs; you want to streamline and remove unnecessary material so that the website is intuitive and easy for customers to use.How does it work?UX design should be at the front of your mind throughout the design and implementation process. It absolutely should not be an afterthought. A good UX designer will constantly ask questions designed to improve the product, gathering information about the product, the business, the customers — and how they should interact with each other.There are two questions to start out with:• What is my product?The answers to these questions will enable the UX designer to begin building a framework for your website. These beginning steps will let you see if the site is headed in the right direction.Once the chosen framework is complete, it’s time for testing! The UX design makes sure that the website works and that there aren’t any hitches — and that the site will be problem-free once it’s ready to launch.Through the use of analytics data and by using active users to test prototype sites, UX design ensures that the focus is always on user experience. Measuring user response at this stage allows for final tweaking; superfluous content can be removed and nuanced details added as necessary to make the product stand out and permit the user’s website interaction to flow.With the framework built, it’s time to construct the site’s visual aspects. From photos to colour scheme to general product concept, this stage is vital in ensuring that a product’s meaning is clearly understood. Waiting until the end to layer on the visual aspects means that the UX remains the focus throughout; the visuals become the icing on the cake.Time to launch the website!The curtain falls — The End.Well, not quite. For many designers, this marks the end, but user experience design is all about maintaining that bridge between product and customer. In UX design, that connection is never broken. It is reinforced, updated, and streamlined for the benefit of both customer and business; real-world analysis and monitoring of user experience means that good functionality is maintained.UX design cares. That’s why it matters for your business.Fresh Face is a super awesome digital creative agency specialising in web  app design  development. Born out of the desire to challenge the boring and the ordinary, we’re passionate about designing and building intuitive,You can often find us skulking about on Enjoy the post?We’d love for you to recommend it with the shiny button below so others will know to read it too!Creative thinkers dedicated to building remarkable digital products that solve genuine business  user problems. 
UX design, branding  web/app development.

I must admit in my previous life, Information Architecture and Content Strategy were things mostly beyond my realm. I’d be part of a team usually consisting of an IA, and at the very least, someone responsible for dictating content. So Project 2 was a great learning experience for me, and I must admit altogether harder than I initially thought it would be (but for different reasons than I would have suspected).Our class teamed up into groups of three with a different University website assigned to each group. We were tasked to work individually on this (a la Project 1) with the option to collaborate as needed. My group was designated the Silberman School of Social Work (part of Hunter  CUNY) to apply techniques we were learning during week 2 UXDI. Anyone familiar with a University website will know what behemoths these sites can be; obviously this assignment was an ambitious task indeed for newly minted GA students.Upon assignment, we were handed 3 personas representing very common current student demographics. Included were Mark, a high school senior checking out potential places to apply via his mobile, Jessica, a college junior looking to finish her degree, and John, a thirty something working professional considering going back to school. The site redesign was to be based on how one of these personas would interact with the Silberman site and what information they may be seeking.Going through the checklist of requirements, we were asked to physically check out our assigned University campus and try to perform some contextual research. One of my group mates and I hopped on the uptown 6 to East Harlem to try and get a better understanding of our school and who attends it.We wound up interviewing at least half a dozen students, either on their way into or out of the main campus entryway. Everyone was an MSW candidate, and their ages ranged from young 20s to later 30s.My first question I then asked A couple of the interviewees stayed with me long enough to have a conversation about how they came to social work and what their background had been prior. One of the students had done a study abroad program in Central America during his undergraduate studies and decided to pursue a graduate degree in social work to actively help others as a career. His response inspired me to tweak the “Jessica” persona a bit to model his experience. Now my persona had a real feeling beyond paper and I had a much better picture of how to rethink the site assignment.The next step for me was to map out the current Silberman site. This gave me a great in depth view of what was currently existing on the site:Yep, I discovered Silberman to be a large rather unruly site at times, and one where some of links were misplaced, incomplete or just plain broken.I then set to work on a content audit, giving me a better understanding of where content lived on the site: Clearly the current students I interviewed had real issues to gripe over on the current site architecture and overall content organization. While the main navigation system itself is fairly self explanatory, my initial reaction was that it needed a bit of streamlining. The content definitely needed some TLC, running as long as it does on most pages with buried links and supporting information that does not always make sense. (Take a closer look at the Calendar on the sidebar — here shown bottom — there are events being filtering in from other CUNY schools that have nothing to do with the MSW program. Very confusing.)During class we learned about Interaction design and constructing user flows. We were to pick a user flow from our current site and map it out.I picked Jessica’s need to find an MSW degree curriculum and application pathway. Shown above is the current user flow. It takes 5 steps from the homepage to see a course listing on the MSW program page. To see application requirements and an online app link take another 2  6 steps respectively. And help me, the online application link leads back to the homepage?? Poor Jessica will have to apply some other way :(To see comparative user flows I mapped out similar pathways for the University of Michigan (currently the top MSW program in the country), University of Connecticut (a comparable program), and Harvard Business School MBA program (to get a sense of how a completely different program presents itself.)What I discovered is that the University of Michigan’s user flow is by far the most intuitive and easiest to navigate. One of the design techniques this site is using, however, is a huge mega menu that honestly does not lend itself well to a mobile experience. (Remember, Jessica might be looking at a course curriculum and application requirements on either a desktop or mobile site.)I liked the technique Harvard Business School uses of placing their MBA program both in the main nav and in a signpost clearly visible on the homepage. I also liked the inclusion of Admissions in the MBA landing page main nav. (What I didn’t love was a lack of global navigation system within the HBS site, and how convoluted their online Admissions process is. (Wondering if that may be intentional to ward off folks not so serious…)I started poking around other sites, looking at design techniques. Two sites I drew inspiration from where the Chobani corporate site: Knowing that I needed to tweak my global nav, I decided to perform a card sorting exercise with a few classmates. This helped me determine top level navigation priorities, as well as information I might be able to cut loose (or at least make a lesser story on the site).Findings included:Armed with all of my research, I started to construct a revised sitemap, mapping out the section of my user flow:Revised Global Nav includes:Finally, I started putting together wireframes to illustrate site architecture and content. Below is my final prototype for this project.This draws from my current / revised / comparative user flows, content and design research. I used signposting a lot within this wireframe flow to help Jessica get useful information quickly. Things like “Join Us for an Info Session” and “How to Apply” appear universally above the footer in the MSW section of the site.I also decided to signpost Academic Programs on the Homepage and break out their most common degree programs (BSW / MSW / Professional Development). (PHD I dropped altogether as I was super confused as to which CUNY school this actually applied to based on the content research). So Jessica can navigate to an MSW either through the global nav or a signpost. Above Academic programs is either a cinemagram or video clip visually displaying Silberman’s faculty, students, and facilities. Beneath are areas for faculty features and student culture, including social media feeds, to give an overall snapshot of Silberman.MSW program landing page again uses signposts to navigate to their various degree pathways. The 2 Year Program detail page immediately gives an overall snapshot of curriculum. “Requirements  Application” and “MSW Degree Pathways” are easily toggled to by a tabbing system. In the Requirements tab, there is a clear link to CUNY’s online application, skipping the current step of going to an additional landing page.I also did a quick mockup of the Homepage  Navigation in a mobile view:Obviously, the prototype went through a few variations before arriving at the current conclusion.Some of the initial findings from user testing showed:As far as next steps were I to take this project further, I’d obviously advocate for more user testing. I’d also start investigating more user pathways and possibly cross test my findings with other personas. I believe that may give me more information to tell the whole Silberman story across the site.Another issue I’d love to address is naming and copywriting, especially across navigational elements. I’m a little unsure if all nav elements and signposts are the most effectively labeled and are “on brand” for the Silberman tone of voice.All in all, this was an interesting assignment to undertake. I definitely learned so much completing project 2. I’m so used to being on the other side, where all or most of the IA work is usually completed and it’s now up to me to skin the site and make sure everything looks visually engaging, user actionable and branded.I would definitely say that Interaction user flows were crucial to me understanding this assignment. Followed by site mapping and a content audit. Card sorting and contextual interviews were also extremely helpful in helping to unearth priorities as well as rounding out an otherwise 2 dimensional persona.Conducting the contextual interviews gave me the first reference point to frame which feature to design a user flow around. In fact, when my classmate and I were at the Silberman campus, some of the students were very excited about the prospect of a site redesign and really wanted to know more. This is the part of the design process that I love. The ability to create something that others will engage with and find a joy to use. And that ability to learn from and about others to bring their voices to the forefront of any design.

In our interviews we’ve heard a few people say things like “everyone does UX” and “everyone does design”. Greg thought that was odd, and Frances thought it was quite interesting. When we talked about it further, we found we had some very different ideas of what those phrases meant. Here’s our insight-filled discussion between about:It’s an interesting idea. If the “User’s Experience” is something we’re focusing on, then isn’t that something that affects everyone’s job? Beyond UX designers, the front-end engineers and visual designers are obviously working on that.Of course, so then the backend engineers are working on UX (taking 10 seconds to load is a bad user experience). And the QA people (bugs are a bad user experience). And the sales people (overly aggressive sales tactics are a bad user experience). Even the billing department is doing UX (badly worded invoices are a bad user experience). Ultimately, the only people who aren’t “doing UX” are the managers.Many managers, particularly in the small startups, no longer find pure User Experience valuable. Projects can sometimes be so small now that you don’t need a designer, engineer, product manager, etc. on every task. It’s more important now that everyone can be aware of the bigger picture.Because UX takes training and/or experience to do well. Yes, people can pick it up as they go (and that’s a good thing). You also can pick up accounting. Yet it’d sound absurd to say “At our startup, we’re all doing accounting.”The idea of “everyone does UX” forgets that few people are excellent at many things, and even fewer are excellent at many things at the same time. That’s why we describe the request for an expert in UX, Visual Design, and Engineering as a search for a In fact, we talked to a person who used to be a unicorn… and had chosen to focus!Obviously, we’re not literally talking about the animal. I’m talking about the rare person who does both design and engineering. The dream is for this person to produce a high-quality website or mobile app from start to finish all on their own. In practice, the unicorn focuses more on visual design and front-end development and less on user research and the back-end code — unable to focus on the entire user experience.“Full-stack designers” have visual design skills, UX skills, UI skills, User Research skills, and maybe even a little bit of Product Management skills. In many ways, this person is just as mythical as the unicorn. In practice, we still have a team of experts. However, instead of highlighting one skill of IDEO’s “T-shaped” craftsperson, we often have two or three strengths.In a way, it’s recognition that design involves many skills and processes. They can change just as quickly as the newest business practice or design tool. It makes some sense for product designers rather than managers to address when to delve more into UX and to what degree for themselves.The other issue is that there’s a reason why unicorns are rare: separation of roles helps people focus. Look at engineers: there are some full-stack engineers, but the majority have a preference for front-end or back-end. (And “full-stack” only refers to front- and back-end, rather than the 3 or 4 roles that it does for designers.)Similarly, think about Product Managers vs Designers:Even Gwen, who likes doing both UI and Product Management, prefers to focus:It doesn’t make sense to only hire “Full-Stack Designers” or “Unicorns.” I think this is why the Product Designer title has gained so much traction. It’s a term which saves non-designers from guessing when to include silo-ed design experts in the (very confusing) design process. Good designers are not great at every design role or even doing every role, but are good at helping each other know what’s unknown and when we need another designer’s expertise.So back to the original question:Yes, everyone We’re nearing our end for now, but feel free to A visual UX designer. I say too much... or too little? But really Im just a simple person with a few complex thoughts. ♥Insights from our interviews with people across the UX spectrum

We talk a lot about user experience as it pertains to websites and mobile applications these days, but the most visceral and arguably most important user experiences are those we navigate in the physical world. These experiences immerse our senses and can make or ruin our days. From these potent real world experiences, we can all, designers, engineers, and project managers alike, learn so much about how to optimize all user experiences.Now let me explain how UCLA’s Medical Center Parking gets it all wrong.The entrance to the parking is around a blind turn. No previous signage warns you that you should be slowly creeping forward and craning your neck to the right to catch the entrance to the parking structure. So, zip, just that, you’ve cruised past the entrance and are now navigating the twists and turns of the staff parking maze. Disorientation and unclear paths to get back on the right track pump up a user’s anxiety. Help a user out with clear indications of where they need to go, or better yet, don’t let going to the wrong place even be an option.Once you pass the entrance there is no quick option to get back to where you now know you need to go. You’re on a one way road to eventually circle back around, redoing all the driving you just did. Easy back tracking is the hallmark of a great user experience. You want to barrel forward through your task without fear that you’ll mess things up, not painfully tip-toe through because you know your path is littered with dead end tangents.Once you get inside and park, be prepared for a whopper of a cognitive load. Painted on your parking space is a 4 digit number, and tens of signs posted around tell you you’ve got to remember this number. The sheer number of reminder signs is already a clue that this parking system will be an issue. While “Remember Your Space # and Pay at Pay Station” is a well known system, this lot applies that system in the most inappropriate way. The “Pay By Space” parking lot UX pattern was designed for a 15 car parking lot behind an urban cafe, not the expansive 300 car lot at UCLA.The larger lot forces longer space numbers and also makes the average distance from a parking space to the nearest pay station a long walk …long enough to forget that long number you were supposed to memorize. I can remember parking space #12 for 10 steps easily… but #5173 for 100 steps?Supposing you did keep that number in your head the whole time, there’s most likely a line. Remember this is a 300 car parking lot and there are only 2 pay stations. Now you are waiting in line and desperately holding a 4 digit number in your head for even longer. It was #5174, right? Should I go back to my car and check and get back in line? Or risk paying $12 for the empty space next to my car ….and have to come back in line again anyways?For the love of god, do not make a user memorize anything, ever. There is a better way. The technology exists.Being forced to guess in a user experience flow kicks up the same anxiety as being lost. The mystery of the unknown and the fear of doing something wrong is a terrible feeling. The pay stations provide a wicked example of this guess anxiety. To pay for your spot you have to guess how long you will be there. Not only are you forced to guess, you are forced to guess with your money. Do I pay $3 for a 1 hour pass? My appointment is only 30 minutes… or $12 for an all day pass? What if my doctor is delayed or I have to have an extra procedure?This parking system is a terrible choice based on lot size, but it’s also a horrendous match for the goal of 90% of lot users. Doctor’s appointments are notoriously unpredictable in length, especially at a teaching hospital. This isn’t lunch at the Apple Pan where you can rush the check to make it make within the 1 hour you paid for. The lot isn’t even close enough for you to go pop back and buy extra time.The kicker is also that once you buy your best-guess ticket, you have to walk all the way back to your far away car to put the ticket on the dash. Another instance of maddeningly unnecessary repetition of tasks.It’s clear UCLA does need some sort of controlled access to their lot. Parking in Westwood is a hot commodity. But, they clearly picked the worst option. Short of piping your car full of bees as you enter the parking lot, I can’t imagine an inferior system.Providing permits for this lot seems most obvious. Right now, even employees in scrubs are using the hellish pay-by-space system. Daily parkers should be able to get passes for this lot, and heck, passes could even come emailed with appointment confirmations for occasional parkers. As the hospital is deciding who gets passes (staff and patients with appointments that day), the passes would be controlled without having to be paid for. This passes the hassle of parking to the hospital though, which may work for a for-profit business trying to woo customers or an online service where a little work on the vendor’s end is automatically multiplied for the benefit of their many customers.UCLA could also have ticketed entry into the lot and payment upon exiting. This could retain the same pricing structure as the current system, though rates might have to raise as patrons with short appointments would no longer be paying the half-day or full day rates in anticipation of a potentially longer stay. The system makes sense for a large lot and for drivers whose stay is of unpredictable length.

The distinguishing features between the desktop experience and mobile experience is often lost in the blended usability across platforms. It only takes really blunt differences in functionality for something that works on desktop to match the same experience on mobile. This is why something like Microsoft Word or Google Docs is terribly difficult to use on mobile.This sentiment works the other way around. Some mobile experiences cannot be translated very well to desktop. Take the ridesharing application Uber, on a desktop it loses a great deal of value. The whole point of it is that it is a distinctly mobile experience and works best on mobile.Having a constant feed of update information, be it Facebook, Reddit, Instagram, Twitter, or The New York Times does not seem like an immediate breakthrough in mobile UX, but it arguably motivated the development of it. More limited and constrained postable content translates to a more favorable mobile experience.Take Facebook’s feed for example, it is highly interactive and the desktop experience on the feed can be heavy. Users can open up links in different tabs, profiles, and pictures too. On mobile there are more steps to have the same experience. Now Instagram on the other hand is deliberately limited in it’s functionality.The feed has only a couple of options:That’s it. The desktop experience is the same, except users can’t see hashtag trends. The feed and it’s simplicity is a staple feature in networking applications, from Linkedin to OkCupid. Integrating this feature has become a must for many.Evolving out of a need to type faster, one of the first iterations of swipe functionality can be identified with the Nuance’s Out of this came the swipe to make a yes/no input for commands in applications. The swipe is now an intuitive command familiar to many mobile users. It is not an exclusive tool for dating applications either. Behaving as a gesture it is in totality a tool for mobile. Swipe would not work on any desktop experience in the same way.Breakthroughs do not have to be complex. The simplicity behind the swipe gesture is why it is such a highly regarded gesture. Using it as a tool in design and development provides users with a quick option for making choices, which on mobile is an essential function.Hashtagging seemed to come out of nowhere. Chris Messina is the first to have published any content on theIt’s presence on mobile is arguably much more usable versus something on a desktop. The UX of hashtagging on mobile brings relevant content together for the user to consume quickly on the go. Hashtags on desktop seem ill placed and an unnecessary tool to see what the ‘fuss’ is about. Trends present themselves on desktop with multiple resources including easy accessibility to search engines, or references from others in a feed. As in the Instagram mention above, it does not include the ‘explore hashtag,’ feature on desktop.SnapChat has a terrible desktop website and is totally unusable without a mobile device. It changed the game in countless ways but at it’s very core SnapChat is a mobile experience first.Putting aside the obvious nuances of an application like SnapChat, it is clear to see that it’s dedicated mobile functionality is the driving factor of its success. It also emerged at a perfect time with smartphone ownership exploding. The The future of this type of ideation and development for mobile will go into user experience research for years to come. Cross platform functionality may not be the most effective route for these businesses to pursue.Codal is an established global consulting firm focusing on business intelligence, design, development and compliance testing.

I first started thinking more about notifications and alerts when A lot of times, we think of alerts from the applications we use as the sugar that sits on top of a well-designed user experience. In reality, notifications and alerts are probably the most critical interaction mechanic we have — most days they’re the primary reason I open many apps on my phone. With some apps, they’re the only way I interact on any given day.All this gets me wondering if it’s time we started thinking about notifications  alerts as their own “layer” of UX, not just a group of features. The best mobile app developers are clearly already thinking this way, and obviously manufacturers and OS makers are finding more ways to make these interactions part of the native experience. But it’s not yet (or doesn’t seem to me, at least) an area of UX that gets paid the same attention as other parts of our apps like nav elements and touch area or gestures.In light of the recent release of the Apple Watch and others like it — maybe the first class of devices designed to function almost exclusively at the notifications layer — it certainly seems like we ought to start thinking about them like first class citizens of UX. I think they’ve earned it.Internet guy at large. Product Design at Nanigans during the day. Instructor at General Assembly a few evenings a week. Typical Boston guy in real life.

Last September, I began my love affair with Universal Studios in Hollywood. For the price of one day, I got the whole year free. A smart move on its part, considering many of the rides are small (and there’s not very many of them).Overall, I always have a great time at Universal, however I hope they are researching ways to improve the user experience. I’ve listed some UX pros and cons.They’ve done well with transportation. The parking garage is connected to the park and fairly cheap. However, you do have to walk through Citywalk, which is a bunch of chain restaurants and shops. I understand this is a sales tactic, but gets in the visitor’s way, especially for fellow annual passholders who have seen the shops many times.If visitors don’t want to drive, they can take the subway or bus to the nearby metro station. It’s really a miracle to have a nearby station in LA because they are few and far between. A tram then takes visitors up a large hill leading to the park. However, this tram doesn’t come often or run late at night. I’ve had to make the hike several times because of this.Unfortunately, this is an area that could be vastly improved. When you buy a yearly/same-day pass, you get a flimsy paper ticket. Of course, I lost mine once because I thought it was a receipt and threw it away. They charged me over $10 to replace it–probably 600% more than it cost to print.Universal has many better options besides paper cards. The easiest fix would be to give annual members a plastic card like cruise ships. Even better would be to implement their own wearables, like Last Saturday was the biggest crowd I’ve ever seen at Universal.Part of the issue was overcapacity. I don’t understand why they allow so many people in the park. I would rather be turned away then endure a day long waits. This is a common for any theme park. I wonder if they need these types of days to keep the park going on the off season.Universal’s hardest crowd control challenge is lack of space. Not only are guests squeezed into tiny paths, they have to use several escalators to get from one part of the park to the other. It can sometimes take 15–20 mins to get from ride to ride, which is a long time for a park with only 10 or so rides.These observations have inspired me to do more research into crowd control, large-scale building designs (such as stadiums), and event planning for massive amounts of people. Each would have its own interesting design challenges.This is probably the most familiar topic to us technophiles.Universal does a great job listing ride wait times on an electronic billboard, but not so great at making them accessible. Because no mobile app exists, everyone stands in front the billboard, blocking the tiny path.These times should always be available, especially when you’re waiting in line and planning the next ride. It would also be useful to include a map (with ride directions while you walk), park news, discounts, etc. on this type of app.At Disneyland, visitors can use the MouseWait App to check ride lines, however the app was built by a third party. Parks of these size could easily afford the costs to develop a simple ride time mobile app. I’m not sure why we haven’t seen this yet.Most of my observations are nitpicky, but even small annoyances can influence a vistor’s opinion of Universal. I hope to see more interactive apps and wearables but less shopping tactics and overcrowded paths in the future.Product Designer. Past 

null

A mental model is the conceptual model in a person’s mind about how a thing works. For instance, when I was 10 years old, I believed the way my mom got cash was by going to a bank, signing a slip of paper, and then receiving the funds from the teller. When I was 20, I believed I needed to take a bank card and key code to access an ATM to get cash. But if you were to ask my 10-year-old son how to get cash, he would tell you to go to the supermarket and ask the cashier to give you some when you pay for your groceries. The 2015 mental model for getting cash is very different from the 1976 mental model. That’s because new technologies and new business processes come together to offer a more efficient way for people to accomplish tasks. Stale mental models are overturned. This is why I love working with startups, because entrepreneurs are the biggest risk takers of them all. They quit their day jobs and go all in on one big idea that they are passionate about. Our software engineer (Even though envisioning innovative products is fun, it’s hard to get people to change their behavior. Customers have to see the value in the new way before they’ll consider abandoning the old. Devising new products to solve serious dilemmas is not for the faint of heart. You must be passionate and at least a little crazy to run headlong into all the obstacles that inevitably will get in the way.My goal in writing the book I’ll show you how it can happen through a variety of business cases. You’ll meet some of my former clients — our aforementioned software engineer, a Hollywood producer, and an entrepreneur named Jared who wants to eliminate the need for currency with his transactional online platform. You’ll meet two of my students — Bita and Ena — who participated in a UX apprenticeship in which they chased a made-up value proposition in order to document my UX strategy process. I’ll even reach back into my family ancestry, because I know I was incentivized to be entrepreneurial from watching and learning from my parents. You’ll see how the journey As a UX strategist, I am paid to help my clients face dilemmas and chase dreams. This is why solid problem-solving skills are absolutely critical to mastering UX strategy. Strategy goes beyond the abstract nature of design and into the land of critical thinking. Critical thinking is disciplined thinking that is clear, rational, open-minded, and informed by evidence. Product stakeholders and entrepreneurs use the critical thinking in a UX strategy to help them connect the dots among all the points — the customers, their needs, and the solution they all want to solve using technology.It is in this way that UX strategists need to be equally passionate about technology, because the Internet continues to offer consumers an endless supply of digital options. Every click, swipe, and hover is a decision that users are able to make. They have choices — a gazillion of them — to buy or not buy, like or deride, share or forget, complete or cancel. You need to know what features to offer and how people actually use them. You need to understand all of the latest and upcoming devices, platforms, and apps so that you can consider their application for your solutions. You and your team need to do everything you can to ensure that Alice will fall down the rabbit hole and into Wonderland.— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —Like this shit? It’s straight out of my new Me = UX strategist, lean startup freak, mom, professor, experimental music lover, ballerina, lefty w/green thumb

User Experience Design is a combination of tools, methods, and frameworks that allow you to solve real problems and elevate a beautiful design into something truly functional, useful and enjoyable. There are so many reasons why you should get into UX design or brush up on your skills, and here are five of the most important ones…User experience design is rooted in better understanding users in order to solve their problems, with as little fuss and as much joy as possible. UX designers spend much of their time speaking to users, learning how they go about their lives, and creating the best possible experience that addresses their problems.By knowing how to better understand the people you design for, your designs will become that much more powerful.“Most people make the mistake of thinking design is what it looks like,” said Steve Jobs. “People think it’s this veneer — that the designers are handed this box and told, ‘Make it look good!’ That’s not what we think design is. It’s not just what it looks like and feels like. Design is how it works.”By learning the principles of user interaction, you can transform your designs into products that actually solve issues. Adding that layer of function to your work will lead users to admire its beauty, as well as its usefulness, in their lives.The UX design job market has grown over 70 per cent in the last year, and it’s showing no signs of slowing down. Companies are beginning to understand the importance of differentiating their products by focusing on users more and creating better experiences.Learning or brushing up on UX design skills could therefore boost your career or help you land a new job.UX design is a constant cycle of refinement and iteration. There is no right answer, only the process of constantly searching for better answers. That process can be best simplified with three words: build, test, iterate. Like scientists, UX designers form hypotheses around how to best solve a problem, and then they go about testing that hypothesis until they arrive at a solution.Going through that process not only makes your designs better, but it makes you a better, more focused and productive designer.UX design goes far beyond ink and paper, and into real life experiences that change the way people do everyday things. Great design will reach people in crucial areas of their lives: catching an airplane home, connecting with a relative, or capturing their child’s first steps.A UX designer must take into consideration the circumstances, emotions, and priorities of users during their daily lives, design for them and hopefully make things that little bit better.

While designing for “ I need a contact form which can collect user information. But keep it informal”Now the site itself was minimalist and very ‘bootstrapy’. So I decided that the form would look like thisIts a typical form and very formal. However, after presenting alternate whacky form designs to my friends, I realized that the old fashioned form which people have gotten accustomed to was by far the most intuitive.So I thought the only remaining place where I could be informal is the way you ask for information. And here’s what I came up withNow traditional users will know what to enter where looking at the HTML 5 placeholders and the more adventurous ones might actually engage in this conversation and provide more detailed information that what they would have normally.After polishing the design the final form looks like thisMinimalist, engaging, colorful and it satisfied the client! Ta da!Unknown Sailor

This week I’m going to dip into the world of UX myths. As you might know, myths abound, and in a digital world in which material can go viral in an instant, it’s all too easy for a bit of information to suddenly be taken as canon. And then there you are, chatting away to your new colleague, and out pops your little titbit as a clever contribution to the conversation…only to discover, to your horror, that you’ve had the wool pulled over your eyes all along.Noooooooooooo, you think, mentally backpedalling as fast as possible, until you realise that the only option is to quickly excuse yourself and sheepishly slink away.Let’s try to avoid the need for an embarrassed exit. We all make mistakes; goodness knows I’ve been tempted to scamper for the hills upon realising that I’ve asserted something that turns out not to be true.Best way to remedy this problem? Information! Hurrah!So here are a couple of pervasive UX myths to be aware of. Arm yourself with the knowledge and act accordingly!Nope. Not true. Easy to understand the confusion, though, as there is overlap and the lines are easily blurred. It’s pretty common to see job adverts that want their UX designers to also be familiar with UI languages, and vice versa, but they’re not the same thing. Zillion Designs has put together a nifty User experience isn’t just about being able to use the interface to go from point A to point B; it’s about how the user feels while using it. UX is the Let’s think about it another way. Say you’re making a cake. You’ve got this gorgeous, chocolatey piece of heaven in front of you at the end, just waiting for you to pick up a fork and dive in. That’s UX. All those bits that you chucked in the bowl and mixed up? The eggs, butter, flour, sugar, chocolate, etc.? That’s part of the UI.It’s what makes you run off to your mum or best friend or company and enthusiastically praise something, because you’re just bowled over by the experience and can’t keep it to yourself a second longer.On a related note…So let’s take that above example and build on it. UX is the bigger picture — the delicious, chocolatey cake at the end — while UI — all of those ingredients that went into the cake — forms part of that bigger picture.UX starts at the very beginning (a very good place to start!). Do user research. Investigate the business model. Figure out how the service or product you’ve been tasked to create can slot into place given what currently exists, in a way that’s meaningful for the user. Then go forth and create, and prototype, and test, and go back to the drawing board, as many times as it takes.Okay, so hiring experienced and expert UX professionals is going to cost you money. That’s a given. There’s very little that comes at no cost these days; sadly, That’s why you’ve hired them in the first place, and that’s what makes them Instead of a money suck, look at it as an investment. Put the money and time in Users are often clueless. This isn’t meant as an unkind statement — as a writer and self-declared social media guru rather than a designer or developer, I’d class myself in the camp of the clueless. I’m reasonably literate when it comes to technology and design, but if I decided that I wanted to build a website and an app to go with it — or, rather, have someone build it for me — the best I’d be able to offer is some general ideas about what I think I might use it for.What the user thinks she wants — faster search, for instance — may actually be resolved by something else like a better navigation menu. Opening up a dialogue is an excellent option here — try to understand and figure out what’s sitting behind what the user thinks they want or need, because that may lead you to the real problem(s) that needs to be fixed.And, too, users aren’t always good at seeing beyond what’s currently available. Before the advent of the automobile, everyone relied on horses — Henry Ford may or may not have said, ‘If I’d asked my customers what they wanted, they’d have said a faster horse.’ Doesn’t really matter if he said it or not, really; the point is that sometimes you have to look beyond what the user can conceptualise, because they haven’t realised the possibilities yet.There’s also the fact that what people This isn’t to say that you shouldn’t ask users what they want, and factor their needs into the development of the product — definitely take this into consideration! But keep in mind that user wants and needs are not always the end all and be all. (And also don’t forget that what YOU want or like isn’t necessarily what your users want or like, either.)Sadly, experience and a record of success doesn’t automatically qualify you for skipping over the testing phase. There’s a reason that testing and feedback are built into so many different processes of development: you can’t always see the flaws in your own work or where the little hiccups of daily use fall. Your users need to be able to road test it, as it were. If I write a novel, I can’t expect it to become a best-seller right after I’ve finished the last word — it needs beta readers and editors and proofreaders long before I can even think about submitting it to agents and publishers.Get other people’s opinions. They may surprise you! (And you’re better off knowing if there are problems Since you can never be sure how, exactly, users will decide to make use of the product, testing gives you an insight into that before you declare the project complete. It gives you the chance to see if the bit you thought was super cool and effective is actually the least used or most frustrating element or if the bit that you were a bit ‘meh’ about is actually the aspect that the user would like most to see made more useful.Asking users what they want isn’t the greatest idea — but neither is assuming that you, as the designer, always know best. Make sure there’s some flex room in there, because as much as your users can learn from YOU, you can also learn from your users.This is a funny one. It stems from ye olde days of print, when instead of popping off to your favourite news site, you went outside and picked the newspaper up off your porch each day. Broadsheets are big, so when you first pick up a newspaper, the first thing you see is what’s ‘above the fold’ — the literal, physical line that folds the newspaper in half. Nowadays, it refers to what you first see on a landing page — everything that’s visible before any scrolling is necessary.But if you try to follow the advice that everything important should be ‘above the fold’ on your site, you risk creating a cluttered, chaotic mess that frustrates visitors more than it engages them. These days, when scrolling is so easy — we do it on laptops and tablets and phones, on touch and non-touchscreens — it’s kind of silly to keep insisting on shoving everything into the space above the fold.That doesn’t mean that you should ignore what’s above the fold. This is still the first thing visitors will see, and the content ought to say something — who you are, what you do, and, importantly, that there is more content to be found below (or not, as the case may be). And that’s really important. I’ve lost count of the number of sites I’ve visited where the landing page content is beautiful but tells me nothing — is visually stunning but gives me absolutely no information about what this company does or what the best route to finding it is going to be on this particular site. Yes, many of us are now equipped with a powerful digital literacy, and we know to look for clues, but even the cleverest can be confounded by unclear or confusing layouts.The above the fold stuff? That’s your hook, the digital equivalent to ‘It was a dark and stormy night’ (but better). You want to capture visitors from the get-go, but then you need to make sure they know where to go next. Help them understand it’s a journey, not a pit-stop.Building off of the above point, remember that less is not always more. You can create a beautiful site that is simple for the user to navigate and make work for their needs…but behind that deceptively simplistic exterior may be an ocean of complexity rather than a trickle.Don’t oversimplify. If you strip things back to the bare minimum, you may be risking understanding. Yes, your product might look super swish and clean, but if I don’t know where to go to find your menu and don’t understand what your icons mean, you’re sacrificing a user’s ability to effectively use your website in favour of the minimalistic design aesthetic.Minimalism is about stripping things back, about removal and reductionism. Simplicity, on the other hand, is all about comprehension and clarity: instant understanding that enables confident navigation and decision-making.Fresh Face is a super awesome digital creative agency specialising in web  app design  development. Born out of the desire to challenge the boring and the ordinary, we’re passionate about designing and building intuitive,You can often find us skulking about on Enjoy the post?We’d love for you to recommend it with the shiny button below so others will know to read it too!Creative thinkers dedicated to building remarkable digital products that solve genuine business  user problems. 
UX design, branding  web/app development.

I travelling for events and meet up once or twice per month, taking bus express is one of my frequent option.I had been to terminal like Pudu Sentral(Kuala Lumpur), Penang Sentral(Butterworth, Penang) and Terminal Sg. Nibong(Penang) in the past for ticket purchasing.I believe visiting bus counter has never a good experience for all of us; it might be a nightmare for some of us. Many bus touts is hovering around the bus interchange terminal, and some of the reason why not to buy bus ticket from the bus touts isIn these modern days, online ticketing let us purchase ticket without paying a visit. It not only convenience, it saves our time and it is safer from being cheated.There are various online bus ticketing ticket website and mobile apps in Malaysia. I came across and tried a few website or mobile apps, but never had any of these caught my attention or preference. Simply due to few reason.Until recently, I found this startup When I first started to explore and buy the ticket on the website, I booked and leave the site without continue for the payment (as I saw a promo code for using their mobile apps).But unfortunately, I leave the site and forgetting about the ticket. Until I received a call from Catchthatbus to follow up about my ticket. Now I remembered that I have to download and buy ticket. A simple gesture from their customer service plant a good impression on me.The mobile apps is sleek and easy to use. It provide tutorial and guide us to proceed every steps for the first time. Its a blissful journey from searching for itinerary till the end of payment (Although it does not support return trip). More important, it bare the e-payment gateway charges.PS: There are promo code for those first/second time customer.Now, we can buy bus ticket with the price from the counter but without the need to go through the bad experience by the bus touts and its convenience and time saving. So, a thumbs up for Today, I’m a returned customer and bought a new ticket to Kuala Lumpur.

By Travis SteffenWe’ve pushed a few of the features I blogged about last time out since my last update, but not all. Not yet.We’re still working through the development UP Pro upgrade process (which, thanks to Hiten Shah and his genius newsletter, we think we’ve crushed), and UP Blog is dependent on that.However, we’ve got a TON more features that will allow partners to customize their UPshare and UPblog tools on their site that are on their way out the door.So without further ado, here are a few updates:We did a lot of work on development prioritization in the last 10 days or so, and came out with a create list ranked by 3 things:We then combine all 3 rankings into one average, and we choose a certain number of features in each release based on that value. While we can’t say with all certainty that this is the absolute best way to do things, it’s certainly an even better one that what we were using previously.At this point, all signs are pointing to the fact that we’re on the right track, and we simply need to put the last few pieces together to launch UP Pro and really start to fan the little flame we’ve already started.We’ve also begun to reorganize one specific piece of our UX in our Viral Settings area based on what we learned during some research we did on Hiten Shah’s HelloBar and CrazyEgg.While both accomplish very different goals for customers, the offering and customization process is very similar in a lot of ways. As I know how data-driven Hiten and his partners are, this seemed to be a good opportunity to take some significant shortcuts to a better UX by emulating some of the things they’ve done within the lens of our offering.Obviously this is only meant as a start and we’ll be doing our own testing, but I feel that this is more of a head-start in comparison to where we would have been otherwise.Here’s an example of the scrolling options we’ll be including for our UPshare tool:Of course I haven’t included ALL the screenshots here from the scrolling process, but you get the idea.We learned a lot from Hiten Shah and his startups, all of which have a pretty significant MRR (KissMetrics, CrazyEgg and HelloBar). However, we drew a lot of inspiration from the process that HelloBar used to get folks to upgrade to Pro.We also opted to decrease our Beta pricing to $12/mo. as our first wave of Pro features will be relatively limited, and we want to reward our first Pro partners for rolling the dice a bit with us — even though all of the features we’re adding for them have been proven to make their site more viral.If a partner selects an option labeled as a Pro option, they’ll see a modal fade in:While partners can dismiss this modal if they don’t want to upgrade, clicking Choose Plan will show them their checkout screen in a secure modal:After that, a confirmation screen will be shown asking partners to share.Once we sign on our first 1k-2k Pro partners, which should be relatively quick, we’ll more than likely start phasing in usage-based subscription levels.Moving on…(UPDATE: Turns out this was a bad idea. We ran a full battery of tests and a blanket table like this converted a lot more poorly than more feature-specific modals.)We actually waffled a bit about the feasibility of the functionality we mapped last week as we dug in more carefully. In hindsight, we think there are a few better options on this front — both from a UX perspective and in maximizing the number of Pro signups we get while still being able to offer enough value to retain free partners who would never upgrade anyway.Here’s what we’re planning now:The point here is we’re able to show more value automatically without a necessary user action — which hopefully means more eyeballs on things that can prove useful for them (both for free and Pro).(EDIT: We’ve shelved this feature for now based on feedback from our partners. We’ll revisit it at a later date when we get the green light from our user surveys.)We’ve been paying a lot of attention to our partner activation percentage, and going back and forth having to sync UP using a “partner ID” was a process we actually stole from a few of our competitors.However, we quickly found that this was incredibly problematic for some of our less tech-savvy partners, and we wanted to make sure that UP was just as usable for them as it was to our partners who happen to also be developers.We’ve been working on a way to COMPLETELY remove the need to even have a partner ID at all for quite some time, and we believe we’ve nailed it. We finished it up, and rolled it on Friday — so far, with great results. Activation is increasing and support requests (so far) are mostly due to typos or some sort of user error.Now all we need to do is provide some quick-and-easy guides to help these partners solve their issues themselves without having to contact support, and we’re all good in the hood.As of this morning, we’re closing in on 7,000 partner installs. Unfortunately most CMS platforms and shopping carts (aside from WordPress, Shopify and OpenCart) have been INCREDIBLY difficult to get plugins approved as there doesn’t seem to be anyone (or not nearly enough) people staffing their vetting process. We anticipated this figure being higher by now, but it’s all part of the learning process.Until next time…

Для простого UX тестирования будет достаточно 5–10 человек.Существуют ресурсы, которые помогают проводить онлайн тестирование, вроде. Ende.

We should always be aiming for great user experiences. A great user experience now demands that sites be accessible — if not delightful — across devices. In order to appeal to this demand, user experience design must defer to technical factors and must work within those limitations — or possibilities. What technology has come up with to address this multi-device need are known as breakpoints — the points at which the system performs a media query and rearranges the responsive grid to better fit the dimensions of a specific screen-size. But the range of screen-sizes appearing across the market blur our understanding of where these break-points should occur.The days of mobiles, tablets, laptops and desktops as distinct entities are over and so, therefore, should be the days of breakpoints as a solution to responsive design.In practice, however, breakpoints remain the solution du jour. Websites are sticking to media queries and responsive grids, ticking off the responsive entry on their to-do lists. One of the problems with this approach is that there are no magical breakpoints that work for all devices with all their variations of screen sizes.Moreover, these frameworks and other practicers of the breakpoint solution hinder the ultimate goal of providing good user experience across devices. As Ian Carrico explains in his blogpost Say that you’re using a 3G mobile device to find the address of a restaurant and navigate to the restaurant’s site which has a beautiful introductory video on its landing page; this is unfortunate, however, given the context. Your bandwidth is probably lower than what it would be on your personal or business wifi so loading something like a high definition video is going to hinder the achievement of your goal. In this scenario, the context of the user should ask that the content adapt to the situation. Performance — as the efficient and effective delivery of contextual content — is the key to building great cross-device experiences. As the proliferation of devices and screen-sizes continues, we should look at performance as the best indicator of context within a contextual approach to responsive design. Breakpoints, however, should not be completely forgotten, and screen size should not be completely eradicated from our understanding of how to provide great experiences.I believe 2 screen-sizes remain relevant — the very small and the very large — the smart watch and the smart tv. On these tiny and on these gigantic screens the restriction and the expanse become a context within itself and size does matter.Digital Technical + Build for forward thinking companies

As a beginning UI/UX designer, I feel you brought up really good points for designing with the thumb in mind. I’ve seen many apps that are difficult to use because most of their navigation is in the top bar, or generally ‘just shy’ of the green thumb zone.I think we as developers shouldn’t rely on people to just ‘get used to’ our app like Apple does, but instead be creative about navigation and interaction; think of ways we can encapsulate the user and keep them using the app, even if it’s just because it’s fun to watch a dancing ghost (ie. Snapchat).‘All I ask is that today you do the best work of your entire life.’ | Aspiring Developer | Design Enthusiast |

I built a website in First, I took a picture at work of my boss’s computer.Then, I brought it into Photoshop at home.I collaged a plant into the image to make it look friendlierand flipped it horizontally so the nav wouldn’t block the sky image. This reversed the clock so I manually cut and paste the numbers in reverse to they would look like they were forwards.Then the fact that the image was colored competed with content so I made it black an white.Then the image was too big so I had to crop it thereby nullifying all the work I did on the clock.Then I embedded the picture in CSS as a background image and coded up the content.I called my Mom to tell her how proud of the site I was and gave her the GitHub address.Obvious to me was that the background picture is a computer in an office and the image box is nestled inside the computer screen. Plus, the images are clickable and lead to more involved descriptions of their content. AND I figured out how to make the images horizontally scroll (Not a perfect solution, but the best I could do without having yet learned Javascript.)so you can see all of them without having left the home page.My Mom, the woman who gave birth to me, did not see what I saw. She saw a plant and maybe some other stuff. She did not see the computer. She did not see the scroll bar. Once I alerted her to the scrollbar, she saw the images and I told her to click on them and when she did, she saw the next informative page (where I had placed another nav to return to the Home page) but couldn’t easily return to where she left off in the image search.Crushed, I began over. After all, how different is this from one of the tossed lesson plans from my teaching days: it didn’t work. Get over it!I continued to press my mother for information asking her what DOES make sense? I showed her the Roland Losslein site on AWWWARDS. (Will explore the site in my next post.) It seemed minimal and chic to me but I wasn’t sure what my Mom would think. Too modern? Too sleek?To the contrary, my Mom loved his site and its simplicity. So I began again revising my own site. I realized…Here is version 2. I took another picture. (I hate stock photography, like what you can see my client is using.) This time the image couldn’t be mistaken for anything other than a computer. And I linked all the logos the client section to the same pages the images are linked to so the viewer can get to them either way.

Imagine a mechanic. A good mechanic, who’s fast and efficient and quite good at what he does. He’s familiar with his surroundings because he’s been coming into the same shop at the same time for years. While working, he instinctively knows where all of his tools are. His muscles have memorized each hand reach to coincide with the correct tool in need. It has become a subconscious, almost instinctive reaction. He likes to keep everything in place because it aids in his efficiency. He doesn’t have to think, he just does. There is a system in place, no matter how chaotic it may seem to an outsider, it works for him. In fact, when something is out of place, it completely disrupts his workflow and frustrates him because now, he has to look up and figure out what has gone awry with his system, his pattern, his workflow.Now imagine walking into the mechanic’s shop. Your car has been acting funny and you’d like him to fix whatever’s wrong with it.In the waiting room, a huge window allows you to peer out into the mechanic’s bay and with nothing but time to kill, you watch as the mechanic fixes your car. You’ve heard nothing but good things about the mechanic — how fast and efficient he is — and wonder how he became so good. “He’s probably a savant,” you say to yourself because in seeing his workspace, you observe that it’s not very clean. In fact, in your mind, it’s pretty damn messy. Just by taking a quick look at the area, you see a number of different ways you’d “tidy up”.“The first thing I’d do,” you say to yourself, “is put all those tools away — in a drawer or something.” As you take in another round of observation, you continue, “Why, he’s got his tools on top of the toolbox, laying everywhere. Why doesn’t he just put them in the toolbox? That would give the area a nice clean look and would let it ‘breath’ a bit.” As you sit waiting, his workspace, it’s eating at you. You can’t focus on anything but that damn area and then, it happens. The mechanic gets up and walks over the parts area, no doubt to get a part for your car. And it hits you. “I could just quickly run out there and put away most of those tools sitting out. That would definitely help this poor man out.” You continue to justify your actions, “He’s probably wanted to clean up for years but hasn’t had the time. Why, I’d be doing a disservice to every other waiting customer to come if I didn’t help out.”Your mind’s made up. You make your move, speed walking out to the bay, looking left and right, knowing that if someone catches you out there, it could mean your life. You quickly walk up to his toolbox and start putting away his tools. “Hmmm, the bigger tools in front must be the ones he uses the most. I’ll put those on top and put the smaller tools on the bottom, behind them.” You quickly, yet carefully put all the tools away, lining them all up horizontally and delicately close the drawer.As your getting ready to walk back to the waiting room, you realize that — the mechanic — he might not know that you’ve helped him out and he may think that someone’s stolen his tools. “That wouldn’t be good,” you say. So, you think of a way to alert him that all of his tools have been hidden out of site, placed, in his drawer. “I’ll make a little icon and stick it on the outside of the drawer. He won’t know what it means when he arrives, but he’ll eventually learn and then, he’ll be better off =).”You walk back to the waiting area with a skip in your step, knowing that you’ve taken one small step for mechanics, one giant leap for mankind.The mechanic walks back to his workspace, head down, in thought and he goes right back to work, under the hood. It’s not until he needs his 13mm combination wrench that he stops. His hand searches the area, not feeling any of his tools, he stops and immediately swings his body around to see what’s going on. As your peering out at him from the waiting room with a grin of delight, you notice the mechanic has a look of confusion made obvious by his jutted-out-hip stance and his dirty hand scratching the top of his head.He finds his tools, right where you put them, in the drawer and he looks around and shouts “Who did this?” His question is alarmingly loud. In fact, it sends a shock through your spine as it seeps through the thin glass window. You notice all the other mechanics are now coming over to see what’s going on. they’re all in a big circle throwing words and accusations around like hot potatoes, but after talking with him for a minute or so, seemingly all at once, they point to you.You instinctively duck out of site and begin to reason with yourself. Speaking down at your hands as if they were accomplices you say, “I don’t know why they’d be so upset. I was just cleaning up. What do they have against space and cleanliness anyway?” But as your speaking, the door opens and in walks the mechanic.“Did you put all of my tools in the drawer?” He asks, in an accusing voice. You shake your head up and down and blurt out “Your space, it looked kinda… unorganized and I thought it would help you if I put all your tools away in an orderly fashion.” You give a forced smile and wait for another accusing glare from the mechanic, but instead, he cocks his head to the side and stares at you for a moment. With an inquisitive look on his face, he finally says, “How’d you expect me to work like that?”, pointing to his workspace behind him without breaking eye contact, he continues, “I’d have to open and close the drawer every time I needed one of the tools. I’d literally be opening and closing that damn drawer all day long.”Your fake smile goes flat as it turns to a sudden realization that you may be in the wrong. “Huh”, you say, “I never thought about it like that”.*Disclaimer — I’m not a writer, just writing =)UX Architect at Ologie

The destinction between UX and UI is truely one of the most blurry aspects of web and product design and one of the mostly discussed in the design community for those who wants to become a web and product designer.To clarify that in a few meanings, UX is the end-to-end map of the user experience design process. Starting with Back-End Programming where all the developement of data base, modules and performance of technology behind the scens take place, to Front-End Progarmming involving HTML, CSS and all kinds of coding languages, Task Flow System Behavior and how the user experience starts and ends on a device’ screen, and of course Information Architecture. Now that is the “seemless” part of the UX. The visible part of UX involves Interface design, Layout, Navigation, Transitions, Feedback — to applying the Brand identity visuals, Content and language.However, the UI on the other hand occupies only the later part of the UX Design process, which include the following: Interface, Layout, Navigation, Transitions, Feedback, the Brand Identity like Typography, Photography style, Color themes etc, to finally Content and Language.And this is where things get hazy when the two blend together. When UX is a total process, UI on the otherhand is what the user sees and interacts with on a device’ screen regardless of what the technology behind the scene is doing to make the interaction happen and act upon a user’s request. To make things easier to comprehend; UI is just another layer on top of the UX, only at the very end of the UX process.Till next time.Interactive Creative Director. Interactive concepts for sale.

Original post: With a mindset tuned for both problem framing and problem solving, the role of the User Experience (UX) Designer must align organisational goals with user’s needs. It’s holistic by nature. More and more companies are engaging in this culture and achieving So if apparently design driven companies are outperforming those who aren’t, why understading the role of UX Design is important? Because it’s all in the process that UX designers follow; a process that produces real and tangible value, that’s why.The UX Designer analyses a given product or service from an user centered perspective, in order to establish a real and deep This critical thinking approach will also be very important while conducting the next stages: the All the previous tools and methods are used to develop tangible forms — the The design process cycle ensues in loop, over and over again, whilst managing to establish a perfect balance between time, quality and resources. The next step, is Design terminology is whole a different subject matter that could be discussed in a fresh new topic — and probably it will… IThe value that UX Design brings to the table is healing the user pain points, since it’s deeply based in studying the user behaviour. An added value which will positively transform the product, service or experience until the next problem is framed, until the next iteration’s cycle starts.— References—designer | strategist | lecturer | open-minded fool | antimisanthrope

Today I got a software feature change request:It sounds simple and the fix is simple. But I started to wondering why there is such a request.This is the interface of the window:People use this window as a tool to perform this task:It turns out people Let’s think this in the real world.Now think back to the software.People use the software to perform a task or solve a problem, and while they are doing that, Good UX design should be user centered, and in this case, a good UX should handle the user’s “mistake”.The final solution is a really simple fix, yet it will zurassic.com

Whether it be in research, strategy, testing, prototyping, visuals / graphics or animation, it all ends up on the The last two key words here are The first key word The Come up with that, and we have our Then, instead of the UX Design team or the Interaction Design team, it would be the Outside of the fact that my current workplace title is UX Designer (boo) and it would probably be a lot of paperwork to get it changed, if anyone asks, I’m now going with As a side benefit, It’ll be easier to explain what I do to strangers: “What’s UX mean mate?!!” *takes deep breath then defaults to using “web design” as the answer*:/Digital Interface Designer, Star Wars fanboy, beat maker, NBA fan and science enthusiast. Based in Sheffield, UK.

Hey peeps! I want to tell you a little about my summer wrap-up trip to SF. I hit up While the conference itself spanned a variety of topics, from the curriculum I chose, I extrapolated two major themes.Content does not necessarily have to be replicated across platforms, but does have to feel like it is a part of the same experience in terms of quality and feel.In his talk, Apparently Porche has this pretty sick program that allows buyers to completely customize a new car then, once it’s built, actually travel to Germany and test-drive it around the countryside. While nearly everything about this exclusive experience lived up to the excitement built by it’s dramatically-lit promotional video, everything from the Rodeo Drive ‘customization center’ complete with an endless supply of buttery leather options to the Wall-E-esque German factory tour, a few touchpoints broke the grandiose illusion and caused an unfortunate, though temporary, snap back to reality.For one, the current website (Like Rob’s Porsche experience, most interactions that span across platforms can be broken into a series of user emotional highs and lows. Some parts of the experience are likely easier or more enjoyable than others. As designers, our goal is to improve the problem areas thus narrowing the gap between positive and negative aspects creating an over all smoother, better system. Obviously, the problem areas need to be identified prior to making such improvements. Experience mapping is a good way visualize the lows and, fortunately, Adaptive Path’s A few words on experience mapping from the workshop recap: (And my team’s finished map (neatness doesn’t count considering the time constraints lol):The hotel example we were given to think about during the workshop was great as most hotel experiences span several touchpoints and anyone can be interviewed for research gathering. How did the booking experience, getting there, checking in, room, staff, dining, etc. compare to each other and to the user’s expectations?Basically, while no one wants to stifle radical innovation, don’t underestimate the impact a small gesture can have. Similarly, I especially liked one very analog solution she highlighted. Bike lockers had been installed in Santa Cruz, but usage was very low. It was determined that the usage was so low because passers by did not recognize what these giant metal boxes were. Solution? Finally, I’d like to point out two other great speakers worth following up on. The first is Dr. Genevieve Bell (Another speaker I’d like to point out, UX Lead 

Как и в науке, в UX делаются новые открытия.Подсчет количества кликов — пользователь должен сделать не более Пользователь будет кликать до тех пор, пока когнитивное трение остается низким.Может быть актуален для динозавров 80 уровня.Хорошая форма контактов может выглядеть такНо некотрых разработчиков это пугает и они делают вот такСвободные пространства могут снизить когнитивное трение, и позволить мозгу быстрее обрабатывать информацию.Но стоит быть очень аккуратным с горизонтальным скроллингом, который может вызвать конитивное трение.Проработка деталей может снизить когнитивное трение.Есть отличная история, которая случилась с bestbuy.com.Это когда вы начинаете размышлять с стилеВместо того, что бы идти по прямой линии, они встречаются с развилкой из множества вариантов.Большинство решений принимаются подсознательно и создание возможности выбора парализует этот процесс.Главное, что бы это работало. Не важно как это выглядит.Пользователи судят о качестве и надежность лишь по внешнему виду. В мобильных и веб приложения, они просто покинут вас, неглядя на то, сколько клевых фич вы заготовили для них.Эти компании тратят миллионы на исследование.Их решения могут быть Это И это Код написан, давайте применим правила UX к нашему UI и запустим все это дело.Во — первых работа на UX — процесс непрерывный.Ende.

Paul Doncaster isn’t your average user experience (UX) professional. After graduating Bentley University’s Now, Doncaster is a manager of user experience at Thomson CompuMark — the business unit of the 55,000-employee company Thomson Reuters. Despite a busy schedule, we had the opportunity to talk with him about his beginnings, his book and how Bentley fits into it all.I was working at the old Polaroid complex, splitting my time between flash development and administering the company’s online customer self-service website (FAQs, user guides, etc.). That sort of paved the way for me to investigate the Bentley program. Monitoring which types of content were rated negatively and positively, then making improvements based on that data — that was my first formal exposure to the whole idea of using user feedback to improve a product.When I got my first look at the HFID program, it was like a light bulb went off over my head and told me that this is sort of like what I was doing anyway.It was a bit intimidating getting started because I had a liberal arts background. By the time I finished up the program, the concept of UX in business seemed to be gaining traction everywhere, so I think the timing was perfect.The fact that these people came together under a common cause, under a common banner, was really intriguing. There are people with whom I graduated that are now in VP-level UX positions that never existed before. It really put a significant stamp on the discipline in general.There’s still something to be said for the face-to-face interactions of business, but in an age where so much is taking place virtually, UX can help retain company or product loyalty in a way that didn’t exist before. If you don’t have that, things can fail much quicker than they did before.There are a lot of challenges in working so closely with a European office. That’s where all the developers are located, yet most of our product leads are in the Boston office. It’s very challenging to collaborate and communicate effectively, especially when you’re dealing in an agile development environment and quickly iterating products. It really challenges collaboration — when half the people you interact with are an ocean away, things can take a lot longer than they should.The fact that the Bentley program rooted UX within a business context really helped me learn to “speak the business language” in a way I wouldn’t have been able to otherwise.I see people as users, not customers. Whenever I’m in a meeting with other managers, I refer to them as users and that sometimes throws people who are used to thinking of them as customers. That’s the unique thing that UX brings to the process. In my opinion, if you take care of people at the user level, the customer part will take care of itself — then again, there are MBAs who might disagree.While blogs and podcasts may be his latest projects, Doncaster’s authored book is certainly one of his most recent great achievements. In Official University Twitter feed, by Marketing  Comms staff  student interns! Share your thoughts about millennials, higher ed,  the workplace:  #PreparedU

A few weeks ago I had the pleasure of heading up to NYC to attend Smashing Conference 2015. I started the conference at Monday’s Lean UX workshop by Susan Weinshenk. I will preface this by saying that I consider myself a Visual Designer and although I occasionally work on interactive projects, I primarily have been focused on Graphic Design, Illustration, and Animation based projects. Because of this, I saw the importance of taking Susan’s workshop vis-a-vis an opportunity to diversify my skills in other areas of design, specifically User Experience.Going into the workshop, I really did not have a very good idea of what Lean UX was. While I have done some User Experience in the past, particularly when I worked at an agency, the visual designers were kept separate from the user experience designers. I believe that the separation creates a waterfall approach to design and this process doesn’t result in well-crafted experiences.While I found the workshop incredibly helpful in expanding my awareness of user experience design methodologies, what struck me the most was the Simply put,When starting on a new concept keep these two things in mind: First, forget what you learned in Art School — your first idea is not your best idea, push yourself. Secondly, and most importantly, you will come up with bad ideas. These bad ideas should be embraced! Get them out of the way so you can come up with better ideas; swiftly and mercilessly eliminating them. There is a well known phrase in the creative field for this: “Kill your darlings.” It means putting your creations out to pasture once it is determined they are ineffective at solving the challenge at hand. (I have also seen this phrase as “kill your babies,” they mean the same thing, it just depends how dark you’re feeling I guess…) Putting in the effort to try an idea, even when you were totally sure it would work, only to find out your idea doesn’t meet your project’s goals is part of the creative process. In Lean UX this part of the process is summarized by having a “hypothesis,” which creates a framework where its ok to be wrong, because ideas are experiments, which I think translates perfectly with Visual Design. With this in mind, take a deep breath and head back to the drawing board to craft your next experiment. (While experimenting with your design it’s fun to pretend you’re a mad scientist.) On the other hand, you might be resistant to killing off an idea. Even though this idea might not solve the problem, you might push for it because you’ll receive validation for your efforts, a delusion you may face because you don’t feel you’re getting enough from your team or organization. This is a symptom of an un-collaborative environment which can be remedied by better communication and education around the value of experimentation and collaboration in design. Worst case scenario? Start looking for a new job where it’s commonplace to have healthy professional dialogue around people’s ideas to reach better creative solutions.Visual Design and Lean UX at their core are about sketching, experimenting, testing and collecting data, then repeating until a desired outcome that meets your project’s goal is achieved. This process is supported by a balance of an understanding of the problem you are trying to solve and experimentation. Without either of these things you will have an incredibly difficult time creating an effective solution. Although this process takes time and a lot of creative energy through sketching and experimenting, by practicing Lean UX in your design process you can expect to start developing stronger concepts earlier and faster than you would have by jumping straight in with your computer. So once you have a good handle on your next project’s objective, reach first for your pencils and start sketch’n. Happy concepting!Designer, Animator, Illustrator, Thinker.Thoughts from the TrackMaven Design team

This past weekend, I focused on usability. My first stab on the layout of model forms was haphazard. While showing Cushion to a few people, I could see an obvious hesitation on where to start when creating a new project. All of a sudden, the user is presented with fields all over the place with no clear direction.Believe it or not, I had a dream about the new layout and it’s the one I’m going with. Instead of letting the sections rest aside each other and reflow when needed, I just stack them and separate with dividers. Now, the sections actually represent the different views of Cushion (schedule and budget) and there’s a clear flow from top to bottom.At first, I was worried there would be too much negative space in the smaller sections, like budget, but it doesn’t feel as bad — especially if I end up going with a budget range instead of a single value. Also, this layout allows me to potentially include mini visuals for each section that provides more context than just input fields. Imagine the budget section including the average budget for your projects or the average budget for the client of that project. All of a sudden, you have a better idea of where to start.Along with a revision of the layout, I’ve been working on improving the actual input fields. From the start, I chose HTML5’s native input types, thinking these would take care of a ton of extra work in the early stages. Unfortunately, some of the native input types, like input type=’date’, are cemented in ugly (can’t be styled) and don’t even work in common browsers like Safari.The first input type I tackled was the color picker. I took a page from my buddies at Next, I addressed the date picker. For this, I wanted a design that is both useful and obvious to navigate — it should also have a couple Cushion-specific features that support the reasoning behind going custom. For instance, if the date is part of a range, the dates within the range should highlight to indicate that. Also, for validation purposes, you shouldn’t be able to pick a finish date that comes before the range’s start date.In filling out the forms, I also realized how tedious the process felt. Because of this, I added value inheritance. Let’s say you create a new project, but it doesn’t necessarily call for a color other than its client’s. Before, you would need to re-enter your client’s color. Now, it defaults to using the client’s color unless specified otherwise.This also works reversely for the inline client creation. If you create a new project and set its color, the inline client will inherit that color by default.Lastly, client and project symbols are now auto-generated with the ability to override them. This means if you create a new client named “Vandelay Industries”, its symbol will be “VI” by default, but you could overwrite it to something like “VanInd” if you want.These recent updates have me incredibly excited to get Cushion in the hands of others as soon as possible. I know most of them are unnecessary for an initial beta release, but I want this app to be a joy to use from the start.For more updates, follow @A freelancer designer/dev building tools for freelancers. Working on Building an app from idea to launch

One thing that would enhance the UX is moving the phone call button from next to the attachment function in the android version of the app. Going to attach something and calling the user happens far too often.I now use @username formatting in my business emails now to colleagues as its the easiest way to target any of the recipients.All things IT, web dev, software dev and the NHS. Family man. Surviving on Radiohead, Arcade Fire, Pink Floyd, Chemical Bros, Marmite, F1 and the Arsenal.

Hello fellow UXDIers. My name is Tatum Rehorn. I am a Arizona native and a recent graduate from University of Oregon. I received my Bachelor of Science in Journalism and Communication with focus in Advertising. I first was exposed to UX design in one of my creative strategy classes through the Advertising school, where each week a panel of professionals would come in and inform our eager and impressionable minds all about the world of Media and Advertising. Each week our professor would ask these professionals the same question, ‘What is the next big thing in Advertising and what do we need to know?’ and without fail every person would say UX Design. After hearing of this elusive UX Design week after week, I became rather interested, but unfortunately out of every person who said it was a MUST HAVE in the industry, not a single person explained it. I had professors even tell me that with my interest in design, coding and strategy, that I would be a perfect fit for UX design, but with two weeks until graduation I realized I was told to do something that I had a very limited knowledge of what it even was. From there I took it upon myself to explore UX Design, a one man mission. I bought numerous books and viewed numerous online tutorial classes, and I became hooked. For the next few months, I made it a goal to become a “self-taught UX pro”, but I felt that with every step forward I made, I had more questions and found myself needing to hear it from someone else, not just a book or recorded lecture. From there I started exploring further education options, where is where I came about General Assembly. While I feel that I have discovered the foundation of what UX Design is, I am eager and ready to dive in and take a deeper look into world of UX Design. I feel that this course will be an amazing opportunity to learn all about the profession as well as create real applicable work, and additionally provide networking opportunities to talk to industry professionals. I am so excited to take on this program and the Big City, and hopefully this program will be an amazing bridge from West Coast college student, to East Coast UX Designer adult.

Conception d’un Ui material avec possibilité de vue liste et vue map. Mode recherche d’incident et profil utilisateur.#IDWTLead Designer  web developer, France

Before we jump into all the tactics and advices, lets take a step back and write down the answer to this simple question:Wait a minute, isn’t this a no BS guide on finding an UX designer job? What kind of crappy advice is that?To explain, let me tell you a short story about Jim:Does Jim’s story sounds familiar to you? Good news, that is not going to happen to you. The important thing here is to find out what UX means to you and what you believe an UX designer should do.Our tactic here is really simple.It is important to deeply understand why you want to become an UX designer in the first place. It helps you to learn about your own assumption about the UX field. Whether you think UX design is more fun  interesting than regular graphic design jobs, or you believe it gets paid more, or you believe they draw wireframes all day…Write those down. This step forces you to organize the vague concepts you had in your head by verbalize it, so that you would have a clear starting point to do your research based on your assumptions.More practically, this will probably one of the first question you get asked during an interview, especially if you do not come from a design related background.Here is your action step for today:Spend 30mins — 1 hour to write down e.g. I want to become an UX designer because:That’s all you need to do for now, we are going to talk about how to do research for each of the assumptions in the next chapter.I love beautiful design

Very good article, however you should name it UI and IxD trends… not UX, UX it’s about to metrics, and no metrics here.Thanks again for sharing!Designer, working at SocialBro.com, leanUX enthusiast, father of two and husband, write UX stuff on my blog UXinPeru.com 

In my mind,ux designer is only a designer for products.It is very basic.For I read some books and websites,I know ux designer need to do many parts of things that the most important part is users feeling.Need useful not created. Users feeling is important. We know,we need created with new idea,but if I give up the fact of product and users features, only want to design for creativity and creative, for intelligent and smart, we will lost and gambling on products core value.From the book “Dont make me think”, I know users want to see a clean and special page not with many words or images. So I know,if I want to design a new product, I should care the problem called over-designed. We need a special website with neat layout that users like to click and show them to others.If I design a new product or app, the first thing is test them and try to users. When user used,they will give useful advices for the shortage of the modified products.We need their feelings and this is a very essential rules for ux designers.Overall, If I design products in the future, in order to serve for mission requirements of clients and to provide smooth operation experience. I ask my friends who worked in company always told me, dont correct the problem’s by yourself,maybe in users mind,this is not a problem.That I know,users idea or advises are significant. I should care about this not only focus on product,it will be design better and to be a better ux designer.Love food and all beautiful scene

There were many things to be excited about at the annual Health 2.0 conference in Santa Clara. From serious talks on social health issues by Vice Admiral Vivek H. Murthy and Chelsea Clinton to the occasionally off-color but always humorous commentary by Matthew Holt on the state of the industry. But the thing that most stuck with me afterward was the fact that the predominant user interface design trend in digital health is straight out of the 1980s. For once, that is a very good thing.Invoking 80s design probably summons up the idea of green screen systems from HMOs or 8-bit color displays (16-bit if you were lucky enough to have a Tandy 1000) but what I am talking about is the now ubiquitous text message. As it turns out, almost all the mobile health solutions presented at Health 2.0 adopted the standard text messaging interface instead of popular responsive formats like Google Material Design or Bootstrap that are so prevelant in the tech sector. I think this is a decision that will pay dividends in the adoption of these solutions.The core paradox of innovating in interface design is that one is trying to do something new and better and yet that new and better thing must be intuitive enough that it requires the minimal amount of training. Everyone loves interfaces with bells and whistles until they sit down and try to use the interface. Suddenly, those fancy features reveal themselves for what they truly are… gremlins out to confuse and frustrate you. There is no question that users love to use beautiful interfaces, but beauty is a distant second to utility.The magic of leveraging the text message interface is threefold. A significant portion of the planet is already familiar with the paradigm. It can be delivered on nearly any platform, including the flip phones prefered by many devout “non-smartphone” users. Finally, it evokes a conversational tone that, when used properly, can bring a sense of connection and even empathy to the experience. Of course, having an interface isn’t enough. The text messaging platform simplifies a user’s learning curve but this is only good if users can still achieve meaningful outcomes. The good news here is that we don’t have to rely on the SMS platforms for a guide.New platforms like HipChat and Slack have just begun to tread new ground in automation, communication, and interactivity. Slack has been identified fastest growing business software ever and with slick integration that allows bi-directional communication with other APIs, the power to leverage other systems within the interface is well established. Healthcare software has typically lagged 15 to 20 years behind the industry. Adoption of this kind of interface with interoperable plug-ins may offer hope of bridging that gap by at least a decade.Over 20 years of building businesses, mentoring entrepeneurs, and investing in ideas so crazy they just might work.#healthIT #digitalhealth #healthinformationexchange #tech #entrepreneurship #startups and day to day opinions from the team at Algonquin

Just downloaded the app and added my local break (Steamer Lane). As a surfer and UI/UX designer myself, here’s my feedback. PROs: First reaction is this is a great looking, simple app that does what it says it will do in a beautiful, elegant way. Even before downloading I got the circle - the perfect way to display wind and swell direction! I always see apps with big circles as a design element but this is the first app I’ve seen with any practical value from them. The colors are cool and it’s neat how they change, it’s also very easy to find and pick favorites. CONs: this app deserves a better name- something that reflects the beauty and fun of surfing itself. An acronym is too simple. The secondary swell size marker on the left is redundant and interferes with the tide display. It’s too easy to remove favorites via pulling up and it’s not intuitive- would prefer to do that on the favorites panel itself — maybe with a simple minus or x icon. The longitude and latitude data does not provide value to me — would prefer swell and or wind trend data instead. Overall I think this is a great app and I’m glad I found it … and here on medium of all places!Husband, father, visual designer, part-time surfer and artist, avid medium-reader. 

It’s not a good idea for product design.UI and ux is the same important

我每天會做的事是在FB看UI/UX最新資訊，若有好的資訊或資源分享會用Evernote收藏起來。若有好的UI美圖、動態UI則會收進我的Pinterest，盡量讓自己保持在吸收國內外資訊，並取得平衡。幾乎每天看Pinterest、Dribbble、Behance、awwwards...．關鍵字搜尋有關UI/UX的專頁並創建主題分類．把優先想看的專頁設「搶先看」．我最愛的三個平臺，把它們設為「搶先看」．國內UI/UX社群全部加入．從社群裡對神人級、樂於分享、或時常解決別人問題的Designer加好友。．加入會用到Prototype軟體的社群下載免費的IOS/Android UI Kit、icon、和手機模版(Sketch或PSD檔)自己選擇帶有一點擬真的icon做臨摹，訓練自己對光影敏銳度的掌握。發想一個主題：每日1PIN的UI研究隨手記，喜歡與不喜歡的分享，還要解說為什麼!!IxDA、design night…ex：行動介面設計模式、操作介面設計模式、LEAN UX、設計的心理學、打造不敗的創新方案、…找G0V合作(滿缺UI設計師)，也為社會出一點力。找朋友幫忙介紹。自己找主題來做，redesign現有產品或自我發想新的產品。收進Evernote收進把很常逛的網頁平臺放入首頁選單(Chrome擴充：以下為曾經觀察的軟體，目前來說因需求而選擇適當的軟體製作，比如：Invision、AE、Hype3、Keynote、Framer.js。:)設計人一輩子能做好一件事就功德圓滿了

May I be so bold as to add UXswitch — career advice for UXers, from UXers. UXswitch is about putting the Experience in to finding a UX job. Your wish list is matched with only the best UX recruiters  employers. For UXers, by UXers

A maioria das pesquisas sobre como temos usado a tecnologia mobile em nossas vidas comprova que os celulares tem se tornado cada vez mais uma extensão de nós. É a primeira coisa que vemos ao acordar e ultima que conferimos ao adormecer, não sabemos que horas são sem ele, perdemos a hora, o remédio, a reunião, a viagem… se o alarme dele não tocar.Conferimos ele de 3 em 3 minutos para conferir notificações de tudo o quanto é aplicativo que baixamos e usamos por uns 30 dias, até enjoarmos e baixarmos o próximo mais bacana. Ligações telefônicas? Minutos do plano? Queremos mesmo é saber do plano de 3G, 4G, 5G…não podemos ficar sem o WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, Gmail, entre outros apps considerados essenciais pela maioria dos usuários.Não podemos negar que os celulares e tablets são maravilhosos, mas como tudo na vida, é necessário aprendermos a usa-los de maneira sabia e para aproveitarmos o melhor que essa tecnologia pode nos trazer de maneira saudável e harmônica.E é pensando nisso que Todos os aplicativos apresentados, serão testados e compartilharemos as nossas experiências e resultados, ou seja, não serão apenas textos e análises rasas sobre os apps, levaremos em consideração a UX (User Expirience ou em português Experiência do Usuário).Para quem ainda não conhece o termo UX é por definição “Para não causar confusão entre os significados dos termos Usabilidade e UX, esclarecemos que a usabilidade limita-se apenas a utilização do produto, ela medirá se o produto/serviço é eficaz, eficiente e satisfatório, ou seja, se este entrega o que promete. Já a UX é mais abrangente e mais profunda, considerando fatores cognitivos, afetivos, motivacionais e ações do usuário, ela estudará todo o processo o antes, o durante e o após do contato do usuário com aquele produto/serviço.Por exemplo, o aplicativo Spotify tem como objetivo disponibilizar musicas online e offline, com qualidade de áudio e variedade, a Usabilidade medirá se esse objetivo foi realizado ou não, já a UX medirá a experiência do usuário ao escolher uma playlist de acordo com o humor do dia, ou de acordo com o momento da vida o qual ele está passando, se este usuário se sente compreendido pelo app, entre outros fatores.Para exemplificar melhor deixaremos abaixo um gráfico feito pelo Interactive Developer português João Gonçalves, que escreveu também um ótimo e você for um desenvolvedor de jogos, aplicativos e serviços que almeja embarcar e ter sucesso no mercado de tecnologia mobile, pode ter certeza que UX já deveria ser um dos pontos mais importantes de seu projeto. Como falamos no inicio deste post os celulares, por exemplo, tem se tornado uma extensão de nós, e tudo relacionado a mercado hoje tem chegado primeiramente através da tecnologia mais próxima do cliente, neste caso a mobile.E para quem não trabalha nessa área, é interessante compreender o que os aplicativos, produtos ou serviços oferecidos através dessa plataforma mobile tem trazido para o seu cotidiano, como tem afetado a sua vida e como usufruir de maneira mais saudável e equilibrada de todos os benefícios que esta plataforma pode trazer, e identificar o que não tem sido útil ou enriquecedor através da sua experiência.E o mais importante compartilhar essa experiência para colaborar com o desenvolvimento de aplicativos e serviços melhores para a sociedade.E é essa a nossa principal proposta na coluna intitulada Aplicativos e Cotidiano, esperamos colaborar com todos que estejam desenvolvendo app e serviços mobile e promover cada vez mais essa interação entre desenvolvedores e usuários.Pois acreditamos que esse também é uma forma de contribuir para o avanço consciente da tecnologia mobile.Sinta-se livre para comentar e compartilhar esse conteúdo,Até a próxima segunda-feira,Post original de (credito das imagens: Analista de projetos e Marketing Digital, faço uns vídeos pro YouTube  e escrevo em uma coluna no Blog: Aqui você encontra posts sobre jogos e tecnologia mobile

This is soon to be a conversation you will hear in libraries, offices and workspaces around the world:In short, Apple currently has three different chargers in the living Mac product range — Completely ignorant to the fact that people rarely carry a charger — usually just relying on someone nearby to borrow some juice! For a while, MacBook chargers were so ubiquitous this was easy to do. Not anymore.In addition to this, when Apple first released the MagSafe charger — it was a breakthrough, a really fantastic example of them understanding the context of use. It’s simple really, people trip over cables! The new charger has also removed this feature — yet more clear evidence that user experience, and designing for the context of use is no longer top of Apple’s priority.Now, whilst I fully understand that there UX Connections is dedicated to knowledge-sharing for digital creatives, technologists and designers worldwide.

AppleGoogleWindowBlackBerryUbuntuMozillaTizennull

Did you love transformers growing up? I did. I spent hours playing with this exact toy as a kid.A vehicle, an action figure, a puzzle, all in one. Fantastic. Hopefully they still make them like this in the post-Michael Bay era and they haven’t gone all easy the way new Lego has. But I digress.The practice of User Experience (UX) for enterprise products, like those we make at Nulogy, can be summarized with the original transformers catch-phrase of “More than meets the eye.”The UX reality looks like this.Let’s quickly reference the classic illustration Jesse James Garrett made of Most of the UX conversation is about the part that is easily visible. In fact, in many consumer or agency environments UX is almost synonymous with these surface aspects even though there are other critical aspects of UX.Most people think of the top 2 and maybe 3 layers of the stack when talking about UX. In websites and simple consumer applications, this is somewhat understandable because the lower 2–3 layers are not overly complicated. I see a lot of UX practitioners with graphic design backgrounds working in this kind of UX role.In enterprise UX in particular, the lower parts of the stack represent a huge area of the UX effort and the UX-value to be achieved here is correspondingly large. If you have a series of elegant and carefully crafted user interfaces that, say, overlook an uncommon but high risk use case, the user experience may actually be pretty awful.I redraw the UX stack like this as an illustration.Of course, I recognize that this is speaking in broad brush strokes. But it’s fundamentally accurate. Enterprise applications are built for solving the problems of a business, an entity with capacity for tackling activities of immense complexity. Consumer applications are built for solving the problems of individual humans which by contrast are much simpler. UX designers that thrive on enterprise products enjoy a full stack UX experience and I find they have powerful analytical abilities and are very logical.If you design a slick new personal organization app you just won’t flex as many skills and mental muscles as if you have to design a product that organizes the activities of an entire business with hundreds or thousands of people.And this is what makes UX and product design in the enterprise space so fun. More fun than you might think at first glance, at least.Idea guy, problem solver, communicator.  Entrepreneur, lover of tech and design, photographer, father, aspiring philanthropist.

Being a jack-of-all-trades UX’er (and a master of none) I dabble in all the disciplines of UX. Design being one of them but only out of necessity since we don’t have a visual designer on staff. I’ve worked with an amazing visual designer (Jennifer, you might know him at Invision… Hi Anton!) so I know what kick ass design is for online/mobile. I’m not at the level I can produce (or even copy :P) that caliber of design but it can really elevate a product. It’s a constant struggle to remind the organization that what I produce in regards to UX deliverables isn’t what I would call “designed”. It’s functional and modern, but it’s definitely missing that important part.With that I can totally empathize with how IT and development may not understand the nuance of design and UX for that matter. I myself still get confused on where the lines are drawn for system admin, front-end vs. back-end dev and all the other disciplines within development :)UX/UI by day. New dad who adamantly holds on to being a Nerd, Geek and Gamer.

OK before we start we need to agree on a couple of things. A couple of definitions. There is no doubt that it’s difficult to define both of the terms “I’ve put this question to a number of Brand Designers and it’s safe to say if we had not been in a polite setting they would have been swinging for me. I think this is largely because the question is based on the assumption that Brand Designers don’t have enough skills or experience to effectively design interactions, user interfaces or create IAs. Is that fair? Well just for a minute consider the last set of Brand Guidelines you read. Did it include a section on behavioural targetting? Did it provide a robust UI pattern library? Did it have any clues to help you unlock a content strategy? Or did it simply spend 32 pages going over the exact colour ratios and include one cursory page on where the logo should sit at the top of a website? Let’s not stack all the odds against Brand Designers. Expecting them to appreciate the finer points of interaction language is perhaps placing unfair or irrelevant demands on them. A Brand Design is like very few other design disciplines because it’s a culmination of skills. A Brand Designer is expected to turn their hand to many different types of design. Progressive brand agencies like the mighty It’s not unreasonable to say that the term UX Design and the specific job are new to the design world. However you could argue that the role has been around for a while now. Digital Producers, Web Consultants, Web Designer, New Media Designer — the need to have a design approach to the overall direction and thinking behind digital interaction has been with us right from the start of the web, but it’s only in recent years that the need has been met by a reasonably well defined job role. So considering it’s still a fairly new concept we shouldn’t be surprised that there is some discussion about how it fits in to the mix.So which side do you fall on? It would seem to me that the two disciplines are ultimately heading in the same direction. As you can see the cross overs are growing and the need for designers of digital brands is also growing. So have UX Designers replaced Brand Designers? I suspect not. Firstly because we are only talking about digital brands here. There is still a need for brands that work in physical environments. Secondly I believe that the nature of UX Design will ultimately be merged in to the process of brand design. You can see how the roles are blending by looking at brand agencies like London based Designer/Creative Director. Exploring where Brand Design  UX Design merge.

So true; the UX strategy and business strategy have to be aligned. The question that UX should be asking the executives is “what are your priorities and goals?” and then, “how can I help you meet those goals?”. Every time I’ve asked that question, I’ve received an intelligent answer, and a clear view of how UX success can be measured.

Ownership of the user-experience of a product gets a lot of people fired up. People in all different roles are constantly vying for ownership and influence of the “strategy” work that makes up UX. From designers to developers to business people, everyone thinks that their skill set is most suited for the job.That said I believe that there is a definite need for UX research(ers), however those in a research discipline are responsible for just that, and it’s their findings that influence those who design the product. But when it comes to digital products, who is that exactly?I got into web development because as an advertising agency account executive, I felt as though that anyone could do my job. I felt as though my job required skills that any other professionals, including those who practice a craft such as visual design or development, could also possess. Those skills were mainly people skills, such as communication, empathy, collaboration, leadership, etc. I believe that these are innate to many people, regardless of whether they decide to learn additional skills such as design or development. These skills can certainly can be fine tuned and compliment other areas of knowledge such as that of a specific industry or organization, but for the most part many people possess them to some degree regardless.I feel the same way about UX. I feel that UX is largely the combination of people skills that do not require any special training as opposed to fine tuning. I believe that in most capacities UX is a strategic function and therefor underscores ownership of a product or direction. If you look at most traditional organizations, strategy level jobs are typically more senior than ‘maker’ level jobs, which is why you hear people from all kinds of product roles jockeying for ownership of a product’s UX.It certainly seems to me that designers have the loudest voice when it comes to campaigning for UX ownership and right off the bat seem to be the more logical choice when it comes to product design because, well, they already have the word But when it comes to skills, what qualifies a designer to own UX over a developer or product manager?Many designers in technology come from a But what about developers? We all know that developers have the tendency to be a little lacking when it comes to delivering messages. But I think what a lot of people miss about developers is that they are some of the most creative people in any organization. Developers love to create things so much that they literally learned additional languages just so that they can go make things and solve problems. Developers don’t rely on organizations to bring them problems, they identify things that can be improved and then improve them. They also know that one person can never have all of the answers, take a look a look at Stack Overflow and witness the amazing level of inclusive knowledge sharing that happens within the developer community. Most importantly, they are the closer than anyone to the product itself, and therefor can see opportunities that few others can.Both designers and developers are in the business of understanding people and solving problems, but actually do so in different ways.The designer/developer relationship doesn’t have to be complicated if both parties recognize that though what they make is different, many of their skills and processes actually overlap quite a bit.UI Engineer designing and building things in Charleston, SC. 

Component-ize all the things.Curator. Organizer. Doodler. Developer. Fueled by RSS and americanos. Salut!

Im a UX and UI Designer // I make comics and drawings // I live in France // I made this blog : 

Uma história de usuário é uma história curta, normalmente de uma sentença, e é usada para manter um lembrete do que o usuário irá resolver em nosso projeto/app/etc. Com elas podemos priorizar e organizar as telas e fluxos de interação, bem como escolher melhor os textos a serem usados nas telas.Começamos olhando o que o usuário deseja fazer, ou resolver e escrevemos em uma frase, se o processo for longo como: “preciso criar uma conta”, estourar a história em sub-histórias — informar meu e-mail, informar uma senha — assim podemos analisar os detalhes da usabilidade e definir algumas regras de negócio.Esse tipo de documentação ajudará a entender os porquês do projeto, e quando na proposta de novas funcionalidades entender se elas são ou não positivas ao produto, um exemplo bobo:Mas para ‘cozinhar algo novo’ o usuário poderá passar por diversos outros processos, assim como podemos ajudá-lo em diversas maneiras:Eu como usuário vou cozinhar a receita mais popular.Observando as histórias acima já podemos propor algumas soluções, e conseguimos explorar outras funcionalidades que existiria, por exemplo:Outras vezes as histórias podem implicar em outras sub-histórias, que devemos continuar a analisar.Ou olhando para o problema:O que implica nas mesmas histórias acima, mas a forma da solução é completamente diferente: antes era o humano que trabalhava para a tecnologia, marcando as receitas ou selecionando-as para recomendações, e criando a sazonalidade; agora a relação é inversa, com o sistema aprendendo e fazendo as recomendações, podendo até mesmo alterar a página inicial quando for necessário.Anotações para me lembrar de coisas dos artigos que li

Geçtiğimiz Temmuz ayında, SHERPA’nın, hizmet ağı içerisine Dijital varlıklardan alınan verimi arttırmanın yolu, kullanıcılar için optimize edilmiş bir deneyim tasarlamaktan geçer. Bu işlemin başarıyla gerçekleştirilebilmesini sağlayan ise, mevcut durumun ne kadar iyi gözlemlendiği, ölçümlendiği ve sorunların kaynağına ne kadar derinlemesine inildiğidir. Bu noktada devreye giren UXAAR, tüm bu işlemlerin gerçekleştirilmesini ve nihai başarıya giden yolun kilidinin kolaylıkla açılmasını sağlar.UXAAR dahilinde gerçekleştirilen detaylı çalışmaların neticesinde kullanıcı ve ona hitap etmek isteyen iş sahibi arasındaki ilişkinin kuş bakışı fotoğrafı çekilerek, tasarımda dikkat edilmesi elzem noktalar şüpheye yer bırakmayacak şekilde belirlenmiş olur.Bu kısa tanımının ardından, lafı daha uzatmayalım ve UXAAR ile ilgili tüm detaylar için, sizi, İlginiz için şimdiden teşekkürler.SHERPASherpa is a brand new digital experience studio, where user, execution and results rule the house.SHERPA hakkında her şey.

Assets and apps are the tools of the trade when it comes to interface design. The UI to UX Designer Toolbox at This bundle comes in four parts. The largest contribution comes from GraphicSoulz, with over 200 design resources. These include customizable logos, ready-made UI kits, mockups, layouts, textures, and plenty more besides. For speedier web design, there are eight stylish website templates from Bek Temirbay, all with their original PSD files, and eight WordPress and Tumblr themes from Themelantic.The other part of the deal is Fluid Mask 3, a Mac app for overlaying selective adjustments on your photos. This is particularly useful when you need to design graphics in a non-destructive way.That lot would normally set you back $2920, but you can currently ➤ 

สวัสดีครับ ผมชื่อ แต่บทบาทเสริมที่ผมทำคือ ผลักดันสิ่งใหม่ๆ และพัฒนาสิ่งต่างๆ ภายในองค์กร ทั้งในเรื่องระบบและแนวคิดที่จะทำให้ Product มีคุณภาพมากขึ้น และทีมงานมีความสุขมากขึ้นครับสิ่งหนึ่งที่ผมพยายามผลักดันมานานคือ จนกระทั่งผมเริ่มมาจริงจังกับการผลักดันมันมากๆ ช่วงปลายปีที่ผ่านมา เพราะปัญหาที่เจอจากดังนั้น ผมขอนับวันนี้เป็น “วันที่ 0” ของการเริ่มต้นสร้าง ซึ่งพี่แบ๊งค์ดีมากๆ ให้คำแนะนำและความรู้กับเรามากเลย ทัศนคติของพี่แบ๊งค์เปิดกว้าง และอยากเผยแพร่ UX ในประเทศไทยแบบจริงจังมากๆ ทำให้ผมรู้เลยว่าพี่คนนี้นี่แหละ และไหนๆ จะเริ่มสร้างมันแล้ว อยากจะเอาเจตนารมณ์ของพี่แบ๊งค์มาใช้ต่อด้วย นั่นคือแบ่งปันเรื่องราวให้คนอื่นได้รับรู้ ผมจะเล่าเรื่องการลองผิดลองถูกของเราให้ได้ลองอ่านกัน เพื่อแชร์ความรู้และประสบการณ์ และอีกอย่างผมเองก็อยากรับรู้ Feedback จากภายนอกเหมือนกันถ้าใครมี Feedback หรือความคิดเห็นยังไงอย่าลืมมาแบ่งปันกันนะครับ ผมอยากได้ยิน Feedback จากทุกๆ ท่านมากเลยครับ ^ ^I’m a self-taught developer, but actually I love to learn everything which I’m interested, not only coding and design. การเดินทางสู่โลกของ UX ของ Dek-D.com

I’m not a careless driver, but it’s really hard to observe speed limits when there’s no traffic and you have 316 horsepower under the hood.As a result, sometimes I get caught by speed cameras.Today it’s Yandex Fines (Яндекс Штрафы) App for iPhone, which helps to pay fines.There are couple of annoying things.It’s really helpful feature right until the moment when App automatically switches focus to next input but forgets to show keyboard. As soon as you enter Expiration date, you’ll be switched to CVC input with no keyboard. Unnecessary click on already focused input to open keyboard is really annoying.Sure you do :) Don’t even think to accidentally click it. You’ll get the Stuck screen with no chance of return.The only way to get out of it is shutting down whole application.Have a good day!

Здравствуй читатель! В данной статье я хочу поделиться с начинающими дизайнерами интерфейсов своими мыслями о профессии, практическими советами и некоторыми выводами, которые я смог сделать за несколько лет работы в этой сфере.Я выделил несколько несколько наиболее волнующих на мой взгляд вопросов и попытался дать на них ответ исходя из своего опыта. Давайте уже начнем!Чтобы ответить на этот вопрос, необходимо поговорить о сути дизайна. Важно понимать, что дизайн это инженерная профессия, а дизайнер это человек, который в первую очередь что-то проектирует и создает. Но не все так просто. Сложность этой профессии в том и состоит, что наравне с инженерными навыками вы должны обладать отличным вкусом и чувством прекрасного. А вопрос воплощения своих мыслей и идей в современном мире не так актуален: существует множество способов, которые помогут реализовать наброски в конечную презентацию продукта, при этом не обладая навыками академического рисунка. Раньше я сильно расстраивался из-за того, что плохо рисую и думал, что двери в профессию для меня закрыты, но я глубоко заблуждался.На своем примере я понял, что профильное образование дизайнеру совсем не обязательно. Я учился на технической специальности, которая к дизайну отношения совсем не имела. Вокруг очень много информации, изучая которую можно получить фундаментальные знания о профессии, а также понять необходимый вектор развития. Способ получения этих знаний интересная и полезная тема, об этом мы поговорим отдельно. Также стоит отметить, что дизайнер, это нечто больше, чем просто профессия. Каждый человек на планете в какой-то степени занимается дизайном. Принимая жизненно важные решения, мы проектируем будущее свое и окружающих, чем это не дизайн?Я бы отметил три наиболее важных качества для начинающих UI/UX дизайнеров:На первый взгляд может показаться, что программирование довольно далекая тема для дизайнера интерфейсов. Но это большое заблуждение. Разработчики всегда будут рядом, вы будете часто общаться, разговаривать о ваших идеях, обсуждать технические возможности и другие вопросы. На мой взгляд дизайнеру важно иметь представление о том, как технологии работают. Это даст вам следующие преимущества:Может показаться странным, но перед тем, как с головой окунуться в профессию дизайнера интерфейсов, я работал программистом (ruby on rails, javascript, html+css), поэтому и делаю такие выводы, прочувствовав все на себе. Для понимания технологий, на мой взгляд, не обязательно углубляться в изучение языков. Хватит прочтения ряда статей на популярный IT ресурсах.Продолжение следует…Основатель и арт-директор kusnizza.ru

Ten weeks ago I had no idea what I was getting into as I stepped into the brightly lit room filled with white walls all around. I remember the one cool thing I immediately found was that the walls were erasable (note: no sharpies)!Flash forward 10 weeks later we graduated, celebrated in style and told each other we’ll stay in touch forever. Those words were true as we hung outside of school and returned to school together to work nonstop on our portfolios. We all had one goal in mind: find our dream job.We all went through sleepless nights of work, what felt like endless debates in teams and shed some tears along the way but the end result was rewarding. And then to condense our extensive research and design into 1–3 sentences for our portfolio became the biggest challenge for us all. But as a group we helped each other and gave each other feedbacks to make sure we were all on the same pace to meet our hiring event deadline. We didn’t have to help each other but we did it because through those 10 weeks we bonded instantly as if we were long lost sibilings. It was natural for us to look out for each other and that’s something that even money can’t buy.Thanks to the valuable feedbacks, I am proud to showcase my Thank you all for reading.Photographer, Writer, UX Practioner and Graphic Designer. Oh and I drink coffee all day long. 

Over the last couple of years, interest in Experience Design (XD) has exploded, yet few experience designers I have met have actually studied “Experience Design” at a tertiary institution. While having majors such as Psychology, Animation and Computer Science can help you carve a path to being an XD, almost every XD I have met is self-taught when it comes to the actual trade.When I started my career I was helping startups with their branding and messaging. I eventually wanted to empower myself to do more for these small companies and this is when I taught myself to code and to design. I loved the middle ground of the two disciplines but had no idea that people made a career out of this. I just kept going until it led me to make a real change in my career. It might take a couple of years to feel like a master, but the good news is there are numerous tools and resources available to help you on your way.Similar to many women (and some men), I constantly battle the feeling that I’m never quite good enough, otherwise known as Here are eight of my favorite UX tools and resources.I hear you asking ‘’Where is the high-tech tool that is going to make me an XD guru overnight?’’ Pen and paper is your best friend when it comes to being an XD. It helps you sketch your ideas without getting too attached. This allows you to explore more, get quick feedback from your client or team and improve as you go along. You don’t need to be an amazing artist to enjoy the benefits of this ‘’tool’’. It’s about getting the ideas down fast, not perfectly. The mobility of good old fashioned pen and paper is also a major win, as you can jot down an idea wherever you are.Sketch is the sexy friend of Photoshop, who got fat and lazy. Photoshop was designed for image manipulation and whilst it’s still good at what it does, it hasn’t evolved with the changing needs of design. Sketch creates vector graphics and lets you export assets in multiple sizes. With the countless fan-girl articles and websites dedicated to the tool, I am seeing more and more designers convert. After putting myself through a 30-day Adobe drought I can see why. With the interface being so intuitive, learning to use it does not require training. Another key feature of Sketch is that all properties (gradients, shadows and borders) can be translated into CSS, making it code-friendly.Prototyping or designing for mobile is no easy feat. I used to be an avid Teehan+Lax fan who created beautifully laid out GUI (Graphic User Interface) templates since 2010. However recently they have made a move to Facebook. Their replacement in this space is Oz Pinhas. He has taken over from where they left and created the Heuristic evaluation is one of those UX buzzwords that get thrown around a lot, often to blank faces. It’s common for clients to want to improve a current product, for example their check-out process. Heuristic evaluation is a process that helps identify any usability issues. UX Check is a wonderful Chrome plugin that allows you to do this check based on Technology moves so quickly that even the best designers need to continuously learn new skills and ask questions. UX Stack Exchange is an amazing community with more than 45,000 users. Ask any UX-related question and you will have a bunch of answers in a couple of hours. There is so much to learn from what other people are struggling with that just visiting this site daily is beneficial.I have always been fascinated with how subtle animation can drastically improve the experience of software. Mary Lou is one incredible lady who creates magic with her CSS and JavaScript skills. All her work is open source meaning that anyone is available to download her code and use it for themselves. If you are looking for a new way to present an error message or a funky way to give feedback to the user, then this is your go-to-site.I subscribe to a lot of newsletters. I unsubscribe to most within a couple months. There is one that stands out from the rest, and I attribute my UX toolbox list to the daily Sidebar newsletter. Sidebar sends the five best design links of the day straight to my inbox and sources quality links that are extremely useful to anyone interested in design.Becoming great at anything takes practise and confidence. So many people have helped me along the way, and I’m grateful for strong mentors and great colleagues. My journey, however, has been based on a need for information and a curiosity to always find more. There are so many more resources that can help you become a better designer. Get out of the office, ask the community and spend some time searching.UX designer 

UX Design tips for designing a better voice user interface:I talk and post about #ux and #startups, with a twist of #psychology.

Ocean was proud to be invited to participate in this year’s The theme for this year’s conference was “Under the Skin of User Experience,” a theme which we explored quite literally, as ever-advancing technology designed to live inside our bodies might soon play a bigger role in how we manage our health.An interest in applying quantifiable metrics to help us understand how we can improve our health is increasing. Through different devices and technology we can now measure tons of different aspects about ourselves. But are we experiencing a sugar rush that will fade when we realize that this type of data provides little value on its own? For example, knowing how much we slept during the last couple of months does not give us the recipe for how to sleep better. Our bodies are complex systems with so many different parts interacting all the time, and tracking single points of data doesn’t allow us to see the big picture.As technology advances, we will soon be able to take more information into account, such as our DNA, our genome and biomarkers in our bloodstream. This data can provide us with a more holistic and detailed picture about what’s really going on inside our bodies. But still, we see that the real challenge lies in finding out how we extract quality from quantity; to make sense and meaning of the numbers. The real potential lies in uncovering solutions that not only provide with us the data, but also provide insights and learnings to educate and empower us to take action.At Ocean we are working with ways to add more meaning to quantitative data in one of our current projects. Together with the Riskminder Foundation we are prototyping a web-based service that shows users how their own unique combination of genetic makeup and certain lifestyle factors impacts their risk for developing a chronic disease such as Multiple Sclerosis or Rheumatoid Arthritis. In this way, a user’s personal data becomes part of a more meaningful solution that delivers highly personal advice on specific lifestyle changes that will have a positive impact in reducing risk or improving prognosis.From a UX perspective, we might also need to rethink conventional interfaces and explore how to go beyond numbers on the screen to more emotional and subtle experiences that are better aligned with people’s daily life in order to motivate behavioral change.Another aspect is personalization. We all have different approaches to our health, which means that what’s meaningful to me will likely differ from what’s meaningful to you, depending on health condition, personality and situation. We see the need for solutions that are customizable and adapted to the individual needs, to put the user in control. Tailored experiences could make information more accessible, cause less stress and lead to deeper insights.We see many opportunities for new technology to bring meaningful change in people’s lives, and certainly to healthcare, as long as we let true needs drive how we apply and utilize that technology. Meaningful and trustworthy solutions will be the result of collaborative efforts where stakeholders like patients, healthcare professionals, scientists — and people like you and I — can share perspectives, knowledge and motivations. Design has a big role to play here — and one that is much bigger than simply accommodating for smaller screen sizes.Check out the full summary of the MEX event Creative sessions exploring the future of UX in digital healthOcean Observations is a strategic design firm. We help organisations tap into the innovation sweet spot to spark meaningful change. 

I think it is much more frequent that UX researchers think the organization does not care about their findings instead of the PM, because they create the conditions for PMs to behave like they do.Anyway, this input I guess adds to the point that UX researchers need to keep doing their jobs more than ever in striving to learn an always better way (time and form) to communicate and inform.Sí pero no

Welcome to this blog.So to add on to this user centric behaviour of present day offerings, So I’ll be initiating a discussion about a product/application every other day, documenting my views about it and then we can all build up upon those discussions.Do mention if you want me to pick up any particular product or service that interests you, I would be happy to do that.Freelancing UXer, Writer

So you’re here to learn some manners in China.This post will continuously be updated…Unlike USA, where there are so many IMs, in China it’s like Tencent rules them all.Other field is similar.small forward(SF), magician, otaku, coder, designer, about.me/zzz6519003 virgin

We often hear that when you design for ‘everyone’ you are designing for ‘no one’. Though this can be true, the future of the web has to take a more flexible and adaptive approach to ensure digital media isn’t necessarily one-size fits all, but can be adapted and adjusted to fit all. This talk will share stories, theories, strategies, and tactics for building an internationally-minded, web for the future.Industry Conf, the event for Web Professionals will be back on the 22nd April 2015 - Organised by 

This week we learnt about personas, user journeys and mapping. Admittedly, one of the most fun tasks was sketching and the best part was it didn’t have to be perfect.We were really lucky to learn from 3 amazing people this week. Being a course run by volunteers, we definitely lucked out with pure talent.What better way to start the week than with the AWESOME team at Makers Academy who hosted our UX Session on Tuesday! Thanks again for making us feel so welcome :-)The slide above was from our UX session with our Mentor, Dr. Andrew Muir-Wood from Duedil. I think this slide shows a common problem most entrepreneurs will face when that amazing idea pops into their minds. One of the most important lessons we have learnt is that an idea shouldn’t be forced, it should really come out of passion and the real need to solve a problem.What else did we learn? Personas, Journey Mapping and much more.You can try this short exercise to explore different personas (types of customers):Think about how your customer is likely to change at different stages of their journey with you and be prepared to adapt accordingly. “Always be learning”.The UX theme continued on Wednesday :-) We were taught by Sophie Lepinoy, Associate Lecturer at University of the Arts London and our Mentor Cristina Bonaccurso, Founder at Miss Codesign.We ended the week with a fun session at Google Campus with our Mentor, Dr. Caroline Keddie, the founder of We were given some great reads for UX which I’ll share below:Happy reading and catch us next week for an update!#coffeetalks#ideas#startups#fun#technology#coding#bootstrap#Dadswelcometoo#entrepreneurs#learn#newmaternityleave#Mums#Baby-Friendly#Founder@JuneAngelides

I have seen A colleague posted something similar to this some months back but in that instance he cited the examples of a speed bump that people would drive around. He described this as a While no one would disagree about the design flaw in that illustration, the design flaw is the fact that we cannot see how much the pathway around the speed bump is used versus the shortcut. In fact this is often a challenge in any process that effectively takes an unplanned shortcut. Furthermore, if the shortcut is not part of the original design, it can introduce risk.A well designed pathway would support the cutting of a corner and of course many of us would be able to find examples of cut corners in many things that we see and do every day.This is especially true when we work with computing systems every dayIntelligent and considered design often incorporates shortcuts, time saving measures and the mechanisms that support using less effort to achieve the same end result.As systems and solutions like SAP evolve, we will likely see an increasing number of time and effort saving measures incorporated into products.Solutions like SAP Fiori, SAP Personas all support this attempt to simplify and reduce complexity however in any re-engineering effort there is one aspect that is inescapable.No system design sets out to deliberately confound or confuse the user or participant, no system is deliberately designed to be unusable — but there is a question about solutions being fit for purpose — the question is, what is the purpose ?System designers have to strike a balance between usability and functional appropriateness.Returning to the illustration, when the ketchup bottle was invented, it was designed with one expectation — easy to make, portable and aligned with the value of the product and expectations for use. Changing the way the product is to be used and rethinking packaging design is a constant iterative process in good product management.Plastic squeeze bottles are potentially cheaper to produce than glass ones, more lightweight and probably a great user experience. Personally I am a little ambivalent about glass vs. plastic but I do feel that the plastic bottle is potentially more wasteful.In the ownership of complex systems the challenge is the same.Companies that produce complex systems, like SAP will continue to try to strike that balance between form, function and usability but customers will have to be flexible in their thinking and requirements and understand that sometimes the reason that they cannot do certain things is not because of design deficiencies but perhaps because of the functional requirements evolving or because of the desperate need to maintain control and constraint.Use Winshuttle to automate #SAP and #Salesforce processes - shuttle data to  from MSOffice #Excel  SAP with Workflows on #SharePoint to manage the process.

I was just browsing through regularly in finding books in barnes and noble website and I stumbled upon a beautiful resource that will help aid in the process of learning the Design User Experience.This is absolutely a best one where you can learn all the basic process of user experience design with a fun way of Gameplay built into it.Check out their video belowBelow is the link where you can buy those from barnes and noble.Whatever happens Life goes on and on and on .............

Great UX!!! And great article, there’s a lot of buzz around burger menus but sadly few examples of better solutions.I do have a question though, the items listed on the “shop” page before any filtering or category selection by the user are shown based on cookie data or are feature products?Soy bueno bailando mal / Ambisiniestro.

I like the well lay out plan of this evolving UX process. And every team members knowingly or unknowingly contributes in this spectrum. Fair and clean example, ❤ it.A Designer, Coder, Amused by Aesthetics, visuals. Create and consume them from alternate interfaces. Hobbies: To see world from reflections and perspective.

This article explains ways and benefits of inserting UX design process into a software development life cycle. They claim that adding UX into their software can increase a positive customer satisfaction and business value over their competitors. Furthermore, the user will get a better experience with the software, resulting in customer loyalty, an extensive user base, increased sales and more. In my opinion, this is true about benefits of UX design. It helps both users and developer achieved their goals, and It is more like a Win-Win situation.The article also explains the meaning of UX design. They said, “The UX design is focuses on the user accessibility and user friendliness. It encompasses a wide range of how a user interacts with the design, their feelings during the process, and keeping that all in perspective to make a great software experience.” Apparently, I also agreed about the meaning of UX design. It must focus on “HOW” and “WHY” user interact with the design. Including study their behavior, reactions, and their mind.Let’s look at the 5 steps for UX design, which are strategy, scope, structure, skeleton and surface.The first step is the The second step is the • Creating user stories• List objectives for the software• How does the product help the users?• How many clicks does it take to get to each essential function?• What type of user is interested in this application? (figure 1)Notice that many questions are useful for creating a user’s persona. Also, they can create a concept design based on user requirements.The third step is the The fourth step is the The final step is the This article ends here, but I think there will be much more for UX designer to take actions after users agree with this prototype. The UX designer must work closely with a developer team. Then, review the project if it meets user expectation or not. After that, they must provide the training for users and get feedback from them for future improvement.

I recently returned from a trip to New York where I had a chance to use the subway system pretty extensively. As a UX guy, I’m always looking for good user experiences in unlikely places. The subway system was a really good lesson, because it, like many of the projects I work on, has several elements that make the user experience particularly difficult to orchestrate. For starters:Let’s take a quick look at the first one:On the same train I noticed students, parents with young kids, experienced (albeit jaded) subway commuters, shoppers, non-English speakers, homeless, teens, tourists, etc. Initially, they had the same general goal: go somewhere within the five boroughs. They walk down a flight of steps into the tunnel. After this, we begin what will be a lengthy process of divergence. As with any diverse user base, this gets very complex very quickly. For instance:This is the level of complexity At this point, we need to begin segmenting the users. Assume two main segments of commuter or tourist. What kind of commuter? Rush hour office? Student? Jazz musician carrying a double bass or a drum kit? And what kind of tourist? English speaker? City dweller from another urban environment? And with these users, what is the priority? A tourist may be in a hurry, or may be feeling panic because they feel unsafe. A commuter might be exhausted and afraid of falling asleep (and winding up in Coney Island, a not-uncommon occurrence.)The solution to this complexity can be found in the way the way the fares are handled: find a way to meet as many needs as you can with a simple solution. The Metrocard machines take both credit cards and cash (bills and coins). They do not take foreign currency, although NYC is an international city and many foreigners use the subway. Nor are legacy currencies supported (such as subway tokens). There is no cash option at the gates, either. The majority of the users’ needs are met by making certain some constraints are universal.Once on the train, we start seeing how the different user priorities begin affecting their actual experiences. Let’s take a short persona of a tourist as an example:Seeing this short persona set, we can surmise a few details about what their primary concerns might be:Because they visited during a time when the subways were indeed dangerous, they may still carry this preconception with them throughout the experience despite the visual evidence to the contrary:This is what they’re thinkingeven though they actually see this:So, there are some things that these users might want to see. Regualr announcements of the stations, a clean and graffiti -free environment, easy-to-read maps… these would all go a long way to helping them overcome the preconceptions and make their experience more enjoyable and useful.When we go back and look at our list, we find that these improvements go a long way toward addressing many of the concerns:The various users, of course, will need a rudimentary knowledge of English if the train information is verbal, but this could be remedied by a simple visual interface. Also, many of the riders wear headphones and need visual feedback. The visual display would need to be high enough so that even when the cars are crowded they remain visible. They need to be simple enough that anyone can understand them.The current system is a mess, with a combination of maps, announcements (over bad speakers so garbled you can bare hear them), text displays that are great if you read English and… best of all… a simple route map with the stations plainly marked, lighting up as you go (the only drawback being that you can only see a few stations ahead and behind).As always, it’s the understanding of the users’ needs and emotional context that will show the path toward a good solution.Lastly, let’s not forget about this:Fiction Writer, Comics Artist, Drummer, UX Synthesizer

Nicely compiled set of UX mistakes explained by fascinating experts. If it is about “learning from mistakes” this article gives you that shot to learn :)Web Developer : #Java #JavaScript #HTML5 #jQuery #nodeJs  #immaginator

Many of you have heard about UX (user experience), but are still unsure of what it means, why it’s important and how it can help you. It’s something that anyone responsible for web content can’t ignore, and we’ve put together a list of reasons to help you understand why you should consider working with a UX agency for your next project.Successful websites — those sites that people love visiting — all have something in common. They manage to balance user needs with business goals. UX specialists understand that, and they are experts at creating that balance. They will even go as far to say that user needs must always come first. It makes sense. No matter what your business goals may be, if your customer can’t easily get what they need from your site, they’ll leave and visit your competitor.So, is your site meeting your customer’s needs? Can you list the top three things they want from your site right now? Not what you want them to want, but what they actually want. How confident are you in how easy or difficult it is for people to use your site? A UX specialist can help you answer these questions. They’ll take an educated, evidence-based approach that will tell you what your customer wants, whether or not you’re giving it to them, and how easy it is for your customer to get that information.They’ll support you in asking the right questions about presenting your products and services. Do people need them? Do they understand them? Will they do what they’re supposed to? Will they save time or money? Might they provide pleasure and delight?They’ll also offer a holistic view — they look at the big picture, all the channels, and all the devices. They’ll do the research and study the details that make it work for your user. All, so that they can offer you an integrated design that fills a need.UX firms practice what they preach. They recognize you as the “user” of their service, and they want to create the best possible experience for you, and they will collaborate with you, step-by-step to get it right at every stage of the process.Your project will be seen as a specific problem to be solved, and every step of the process is going to be tailored to solving that problem. The teams put in solid, creative forethought before workshops and meetings to ensure that you participate, are engaged and involved. They may encourage you to observe user testing where you’ll see that your users aren’t just like you, and you may even be surprised as to how some people try to use your site. But most importantly, they’ll take the time to guide you along way to ensure that you stay informed of how and why decisions being made.They’ll make your day-to-day life easier, too. What you may see as overwhelming and complicated, a UX specialist will see as a problem waiting to be solved. If you’re facing a big project like making your site responsive, or accessible, or if you’re managing an omni-channel product launch, chances are good that they have already successfully worked through it with another client. The solution to your situation won’t be exactly the same. It will depend on your product, your users, your requirements and constraints, but a UX specialist can apply their previous experience to create a Who visits your site most often? What are they looking for? What problems are they encountering? Why do they stay on one page and abandon another? What could make their experience better?UX agencies answer these questions with design-focused consultation and research methods that investigate actual user behavior ­ — what people actually do, rather than what they say or think. They understand habits and preferences and how to design and create the content that your customers want. They may even point out that sometimes the people who actually visit your site aren’t even on your radar.Good UX agencies genuinely care about how people use your site. They also understand that your site’s success is based on conversion or task completion. That’s why they do all the solid, upfront research and thinking, and take the time to map out your user’s best path. They will test on real people so they’re going to be able to tell you where your users succeed and where they get stuck.They’re going to look at your competition and explain why they do what they do, and whether or not it works. They do it because they want to make your site, and your ROI, better. They do it because they care about technology, and they care about people.Follow us to learn how #technology, #design and #services can work for people. Think #UX, #UI with a #research and #insights based approach for your #business.

The Company in Question is They are famous for their attention to detail when it comes to design and for having fired their Co-founder and CEO recently.Add yes I am going to test their I am performing this analysis onI tend to be blunt and speak from purely a new users prespective. I do these UX teardowns as a hobby not for money.Now In order to get the feel of the entire process I would have to take you through the entire process so buckle up get Product Manager, UX  Information Architect

I can totally relate with this. UX rocks!UX Designer | Creator | Entrepreneur | Strategist | Science Geek

In the world of products, the user experience of the product is worth its weight in gold. What good is an idea if the user hates using it or is completely confused by it? Tons of brilliant ideas are sent to the garbage can annually because the inventor didn’t stop to think of how someone would engage with the product or if it was really solving a problem.The same should go for the Candidate Experience within the recruiting process. Think of the recruiter and the process that they engage the candidate with as a product. For the candidate, this product should be seamless, effortless, and reliable. The Candidate Experience is something that is forgotten in many organizations. Too many recruiters view candidates as a “can you make me a dollar today” transaction. Recruiters and companies often don’t think about, how many clicks does it take for a candidate to apply to one of my jobs? How easy it is to apply via mobile device? How streamlined was the interview process and did the candidate have a pleasant experience coming into the office?In the tech world where supply/demand is out of whack, Candidate Experience can be a real turning point. Recruiters rely heavily on referrals. Would you refer a restaurant to a friend that you didn’t have a good experience with? The same concept goes here. Do yourself a favor — make the process efficient and an enjoyable experience for the candidate.Va Native. Recruiting Manager 

僕は現在UXデザイナー兼ディレクターとして新規サービスの開発を行っています。現在いる組織はRDの部署であり、ディレクターのみで構成され、各々がそれぞれプロダクトを運用しています。大きな問題はこれだと思う。裁量に関してUX Designerがちゃんと持っていたとするとチームビルディングからプロセスの見直し、果てはプロダクトへと何かしらの良い変化が生まれるだろう。しかし、現状ではプロダクトに横断的にジョインするような形でUX Designerが入ることが多いのではないだろうか。これではUX Designerとしてチームにジョインするも制作のプロセスを変えるほど裁量権を持っていないのでやれることが限られてくる。やれることが限られるとその成果も大きく変わらない。UX Designerを保有するチームを社内に作り、横断的に色々なチームにアサインするとなるとそれは顕著に出るのではないだろうかUX Designerがチームにいるとユーザーへの価値は担保できるからチームにいてもらう…で終わっては全然ダメだ。UXDの知識や知見はUX Designerしか必要としないようなそんな崇高なものなのか…UXD、HCD、サービスデザインについての勉強会やセミナーなどは数多くあるものの、間違った認識や捉え方から誤った情報を発信しているものも少なくない。非常にがっかりなセミナーもたくさんあった。誰に教わるかは非常に重要だ。また、座学で聞いたとしても伝わらないことが多い。体験し、自分でも深い理解と共に扱えるようになることが大事だろう。教育という言葉は言う方は気分は良いが学ぶ方からしたら強制的なものに感じるので聞こえがよくないだろう。強制的なものや苦しいものは文化として会社に根付きにくい。楽しいからさらに学ぼうと思い、楽しいからこそ人にも伝えていくようなそんな文化をデザインできればと思います。

a lot “of” UX design

You can be good by following UX patterns, but you will never be great. Every design problem is different: different users, different markets and different objectives. Sure, some may be similar but if you look closely you will see that they are subtly different. If every problem is different then so must be every solution and therefore, the methods and approach used to reach that solution. In my opinion, this is how the great UX Designers work and think- tailoring their methods to fit the design problem they are facing, not just copy pasting the latest UX trends, and crowbarring other products user flows into theirs because it is recognised as “Good UX”. There is no such thing as a UX pattern that is “Good UX” in all contexts.UX Design is extremely context sensitive. For example, the recognised pattern of laying out a web page left to right could be described as “Good UX” in western societies. However, as soon as you change the geographical or cultural context and imagine the same pattern in Iran, Japan or China (or any other country that doesn’t read left to right) the pattern no longer bears any relevance. Imagine that a new piece of technology comes out allowing us to interface with computers via audio, changing the technological context. Again, this “Good UX” pattern is no longer relevant because it was completely reliant upon a particular context. This is an obvious example; in most cases design problem contexts usually differ more subtly, making it harder but just as important to identify different soloutions.The UX designer that believes that there are “Good UX” patterns that solve all design problems irrespective of specific context may be able to assemble an improved user experience. However, they will never be able to design a delightful experience and will be completely lost if they attempt to design for different contexts.UX designer’s that see every design problem as a unique challenge and tackle these problems by tailoring their methods to create a bespoke solution will be able to design for any user, in any industry or context. They will be far more effective as a designer because it is not a library of patterns that they have learnt but the ability to solve problems in a user-centered way, a far more powerful skill.John Morgan — A UX Designer working for IBM Watson, designing meaningful experiences in the uncharted space of AI.

Below you’ll find a set of infographics which will help you in identifying yourself at the “UX skills ladder”.Take a look at these 10 short keywords which should sound familiar to every UX Designer — beginner. If after reading this you discover that you’ve never heard about something described here it means that you should definitely get to know more in this area to be a better UX Designer. If some area is known to you but you feel that you don’t have enough knowledge in it — read, explore, learn and observe others. Congratulations to those who are familiar with all the infographics and posters or have seen similar ones! This means that you already have a next level of UX development ahead of you :)1. UX Levels A very common symbolics of the iceberg can be also applied to UX because it’s the most accurate. What you can see, the visual element to the work of a Designer, is just a tip of the iceberg. The rest of the processes (which are the main part) are hidden underneath. You need to be aware of them and pay great attention to them because they have the final word on the success of the whole project.source: 2. Tree of User Experience What User Experience Design really stands for? As you can see below UX comes from several seemingly different and separate fields like: psychology, philosophy, design and engineering. This is the uniqueness of UX — it connects the areas which have previously just “touched”. Currently we can observe new branches emerging in the field like information architecture, visual design, interaction design and others.source: 3. What is UX? This infographic presents a digest of knowledge on user interaction both if it comes to interacting with websites and apps in the area of design and functionality. It presents facts and data on user behaviour, describes and briefly explains the UX Design path. It also highlights the benefits of good UX from the perspective of a user. The necessary elements to User Experience Design are:The benefits of good UX are:4. The UCD process The best summary to this infographic would be a quote that it includes: “The central premise of User Centered Design is that the best designed products and services result from understanding the needs of the people who will use them” I think that every UX Designer would agree. Again a well-known symbolics of the iceberg will be used, now more developed with the division into tools, methods and good practices which are worth using at certain levels of the design process. Take a look at the “lifecycle of the project”.source: 5. Personas Very detailed infographic presenting the process of creating a persona. Take a look at “10 steps to Personas”:1) finding the users 2) building a hypothesis 3) verifications 4) finding patterns 5) constructing personas 6) defining situations 7) validation and buy-in 8) dissemination of knowledge 9) creating scenarios 10) on-going developmentThese are the 10 steps that will help you or will consolidate what you already know on how to find the right users, build the right hypotheses and verify them, properly construct personas and scenarios of use. No proper project can be created without these elements in mind!source: 6. Understand website Understanding is the key to success of the website and going further we can say that it’s a key which opens the door to user satisfaction. When you want to learn more about your website/app or users’ behaviours you have one simple technique at your disposal — testing. User testing, website testing, data analysis. Try testing to identify and understand the strengths and vulnerabilities of a design. What can help you is i.e. the knowledge of what is happening at your website. Analyse your hypotheses and assumptions on what you’d like the users to do at your website. What do you care about? Low conversion at the website? High rate of cart abandonment? The data you gathered will help you i.e Google Analytics, scenario testing, A/B testing, studies using recordings of behaviours and emotions of respondents. Let users help you!source: 7. Usability testing Test, test, test and test once more! Everything and everyone. To ensure that your site / app lives up to expectations and users achieve their goals through it you need to conduct appropriate testing. It would be best to test every once in a while, not only when a problem occurs. This infographic presents what to test, which testing group to choose, when to test, with what tools and how often. But remember — every project requires individual approach.source: 8. Website simplified This refers to a guide to design a website in simplified form. The whole process boils down to efficient planning, design and strategic implementation. This infographic aims at changing your way of perceiving website design. This should be a straightforward and simple process focusing on i.e. five basic assumptions based on: satisfaction, efficiency, learnability, errors and memorability.source: 9. Guide for UX career Very helpful guide on UX job market and its demands. What positions emerge and where, what qualifications you need, which tools you should be familiar with, what are the most popular companies at the market.© 10. Tips for good designer Below you’ll find all the skills required to be a good UX Designer. Check which ones you’ve already mastered and which ones you need to improve or give an additional polish. Remember practice makes perfect!Some of these skills are:source: Remote usability testing and tool.

La relación entre UX y Social Media es cada vez más cercana e inevitable. Mientras los dispositivos digitales de consumo se multiplican y la notoriedad es cada vez más efímera y difícil de alcanzar, las redes sociales juegan un papel clave en la relación de una marca con sus usuarios y clientes.La disciplina del Lejos de poner en duda esta definición, me gustaría reflexionar sobre una interpretación más libre y amplia de la misma, en la que dejamos de trabajar con una única interfaz como elemento conector entre el usuario y la máquina. La pantalla de cada dispositivo, que muestra la información que representa a nuestro producto o servicio — nuestra web — es una de las maneras que tenemos de llegar hasta el usuario o cliente, pero no la única.Además de esta interfaz, el usuario mantiene una relación con nuestra marca usando interfaces que controlamos menos o que, en sí mismas, implican esta ampliación de concepto. Un usuario que se queja de un servicio de entrega a domicilio vía Twitter está usando la interfaz de una marca (Twitter) para ponerse en contacto con otra marca completamente distinta (la nuestra). Esto cambia radicalmente las reglas del juego y hace que nos tengamos que plantear también el canal como interfaz, porque la experiencia que podemos proporcionar al usuario depende en gran medida de la interacción con otros seres humanos, que se comunican a través de esas diversas plataformas.Esta concepción libre y abierta del concepto de interfaz pone de manifiesto la relación clave entre los equipos de Un estudio de la Universidad de Twente revela que las La UX Designer, currently at 

FOWD NYC 2014 speaker, UX ArchitectStuff on Design: UX, UI, Prototyping and more

Our role as designers, as always, is to create a meaningful experience for users. Simple.Looking at it in this way, user experience (UX) design has always existed as a part of the design process. Previously it was included in the general research stage but now, as we realise and understand how important the user is, it’s growing as a field of its own. The reality is now that how well the user experience is designed can often determine the success or failure of a business. Nimble designers are adapting to match this emergence, which is why UX is a powerful and necessary addition to any digital designer’s skillset.Simon Pemberton, National Head of School atUnderstanding the customer journey allows designers to capture the best elements for a user experience, rather than designing for themselves. As designers, we build, we make, we design for the purposes of other people — so we need to understand how people’s hands and minds work. If you don’t think about the experience people have, you will never create great work. That journey has to be more important than what we, ourselves see for our projects.If you’re This is the most important step and is the main reason user experience has become a field of its own. Understanding who you’re designing for is the only way to create a relevant experience, and frankly if you’re not considering this then you’re just designing for yourself. Which is selfish.As well as making sense of behaviours, this step is also crucial for identifying user barriers and influences and how that affects the goals of your design and the client. Designing solutions and eliminating barriers to positive experiences is at the heart of UX. Creating better emotional engagement between user and your goals can only come from an informed position.With all that juicy information on who it is you’re designing for and what they actually want from the experience, idea generation begins. Initial ideas and storyboards are tested, fine tuned and evolved to increase the value of the design, through user feedback. What aspects of the design worked, what problems were solved, which elements failed to connect?This feedback indicates what’s worth picking out, and what needs improving or changing. Every validation is a step furthering your goals, aligning the experience to the outcome. Through the process of constant iteration, you’ll gain valuable insights about the target market and validate any assumptions in the early stage.Turning over your design to developers to evolve it to an experience that is functional, beautiful and influential doesn’t mean your job is done. Expect tweaking!There you have it — UX in a nutshell. Even though the principles, philosophies and techniques of UX design are well established, its value is fast becoming a driving force of design. The industry’s expanding and jobs are booming.If you’re ready to go deeper and immerse yourself in everything UX, our Looking at it in this way, user experience (UX) design has always existed as a part of the design process. Previously it was included in the general research stage but now, as we realise and understand how important the user is, it’s growing as a field of its own. The reality is now that how well the user experience is designed can often determine the success or failure of a business. Nimble designers are adapting to match this emergence, which is why UX is a powerful and necessary addition to any digital designer’s skillset.Future focused and industry connected. This is design school reinvented. All tweets by Tractor - RTO20814.

I am a fan of Starbucks! I indulge my coffee there during afternoon hours. The baristas knows me and sometimes I get on the house drinks. It is not because of Starbucks that I go to Starbucks but because Starbucks could fit nicely in our neighborhood in San Francisco.Recently, we received the Powermat Wireless where customers can wirelessly charge their phones for free. The chargers are called Powermat Wireless and they are installed on top of assigned tables. It works this way: Find the right ring for your phone, plug it into your phone, then place the ring on a Powermat spot on the table, and that is it, your phone is charging now.The first experience was amazing! My phone is charging, I am less worried, I have more time to surf on my phone and I can stay for longer time at Starbucks. Later, I began to realize the more I used the Powermat Wireless to charge my iPhone the more my body was trying to adjust to a new position! What does that mean?Let me explain in more details. There are three level of emotions for any product we encounter with and these three emotional principles are about assigning values of the product: My subconscious behavior, the Visceral and Behavioral, went great! I was amazed by the invention and enjoyed the experience like many other users! But my conscious behavior was slow, something was glitchy, it took me a while to realize it. What did happen on the Reflective side of my emotional experience? I looked at other users and noticed the same thing. I looked at the chairs we were sitting on, they were moved from their origin spots. What did happen?The spot where the user place their Powermat ring on the table are located in front of the user (Fig. B.) If the Powermat rings that are located in front of the users are functioned to charge bigger devices such as laptops then that would be logical because the size of the keyboard on the laptop is big enough to give the user the right amount of space and flexibility on typing  performing their tasks from their laptop. But we cannot implement the same concept with smaller devices such as phones! Phones has smaller screens, and their screens has small keyboards, that means they require special settings and body movements. The Powermat chargers are located in front of the users, and users will find discomfort to use their phones from front all the times. The current arrangement of assigning the location of the Powermat Wireless chargers can increase exposure to contact stress, awkward postures and repetition.Also, the busiest zone when the user is sitting in coffee shop is located in front of the user’s table. It is the safest zone as well. I call it Safe  Comfort Zone. At the Safe  Comfort Zone the user place their books, laptops, iPads, plates, menus, etc. And that is where coffee shop owners stream their cash from. The left and right side of the user is the Share Zone. It is less busy, and more to share with other customers  can be temporary too, such as placing a car key or phone, and most of the time they are empty. Users feel more secure by keeping their stuff in front of them at the Safe  Comfort Zone. The story is opposite with Powermat Wireless spots, they transferred the busy zone from the Safe  Comfort Zone to Share Zone which is less secure. What is front of the user is always secure but in this case it is only for charging iPhone. Everytime a user want to charge a phone, the user should move their stuff such as laptops, books, and drinks, to the Share Zone. (Check Fig. C.)All users will be facing same issue when it comes to charging their phones. Even if only one user charged a phone, it will leave a negative experience on the user next to. Many users go to Starbucks to read or study or meet somebody. They place their books or laptops or newspaper in front of them. If they charge their phone, they have to move their stuff towards their right or left. If both users decided to charge their phones, that means they both might have to share the Share Zone. Some users are friendly and some are not, we cannot guarantee anything. The situation can be tricky, users might think of other spot or another coffee shop.In order to perform efficiently, all the wireless chargers should be portable so users can place the spots the way they want. The user should control the object and not the object to control the user. In my opinion, it would be tricky to create new desks by replacing spots to right side of the users because we have to consider the 10% of the world population who are left-handed. That means we have to build special tables for left-handed customers. Most likely their friends are right-handed so that will be very complicated to have tables with mutual designs. Creating a portable wireless chargers will be more efficient. Another solution, I would suggest is to design bigger  special tables for the current design by Powermat Wireless chargers, so users can move their chairs to the right or left comfortably. The current situation won’t allow customers to stay comfortable. The designers were smartly deliberated on the conceptual design itself but gave less consideration towards the users. By charging my iPhone at Starbucks I might think __Thanks, WozAbstract Painter  Design Thinker | 

Dopo aver fatto un breve excursus su come rendere un sito usabile seguendo Tempo fa avevamo già trattato Se questo è il problema, e non è di poco conto, bisogna individuare quali sono gli elementi da tener presente per E’ fuor di dubbio che per gli E-Commerce è importante avere delle belle immagini, grandi e ad alta definizione. Infatti, “se è vero che un’immagine dice di più di mille parole, nell’E-Commerce un’immagine vale di più di mille dollari”. Questo perché un’immagine è un ottimo sostituto della visione reale, fisica, dell’oggetto: Secondo l’E-commerce UX Report della Nielsen Norman Group, negli E-Commerce effettivamente c’è stato un aumento di immagini ad alta risoluzione e non solo nelle schede prodotto, ma anche nella pagine destinate alle categorie merceologiche con Di fronte alla descrizione e all’immagine di un prodotto, per ben fatta che sia, rimane sempre all’utente un dubbio: qualità e modalità d’uso corrispondono effettivamente? Posso essere certo che soddisferà alle mie necessità? Come fare per saperlo? Ovviamente non c’è modo migliore che Ecco allora che le recensioni scritte dagli utenti che già hanno effettuato quell’acquisto Spesso i meccanismi, i passaggi da seguire per #WebContent Specialist. Writing about #storytelling, #blogging, #webmarketing, #SMM, #ecommerce. Love animals, art (#fondoambiente member) and dancing

My first UXBristol was very good fun. In fact talking to people out on the M-shed balcony last week it seems that it UXBristol is always fun, and it just gets more and more fun each year. The same seemed to be true of the last UX thing I spoke at; UCD in London.How come these UX conferences are such good fun then? 0ne thing l could flag up is that the internet has made it more possible to get a smaller-scale conference together with low overheads. In pre-internet days a conference had to aim to be big to ensure that the costs in publicity, admin and print were guaranteed to be offset. If it wasn’t big then it was just a small casual get-together organised without overheads. Today, with the range of internet based tools available it is possible to move into the middle ground; to get a hundred or so people together with bookings, speakers, schedules, information feeds, the lot. This can all be done in a work-intensive but more cost-effective way, and done year on year without the event becoming a huge impersonal juggernaut.Getting the right number at a conference is difficult. Too high and it feels like herding cattle, too low and it feels like meeting up at the pub (which is fine… but it’s not a conference). To some extent the number of attendees is one variable you can control, although it is not that simple, tied up as it is with the size of the venue and the amount of interest in the event. What is the ideal number of delegates for such an event? You can map out the upper and lower limits; the size at which it is just a meeting and the size at which it becomes riot control, but where is the sweet spot between the two?The Greek philosopher Plato had something to say on this. His utopian state had 5,040 inhabitants, as this embodied some sort of optimum in terms of how many people you could get to know in your life time. The use of facebook has lead to similar discussions of what a friend is and how many friends you can really have. What’s the equivalent ideal number for a conference?Then there is the curation; actively influencing the content and the demographic of the attendees. If you are running a night-club you can curate the content by choosing who the DJs are and you can curate the attendees by installing bouncers with an agenda (‘You can’t come in with those shoes on!’, ‘Sorry mate, you’re far too old…’). With a conference you can have quite fine control over the content, but the idea of vetting the attendees is a step too far; ‘Sorry mate you’re just a bit too techy for this conference, maybe if you go home and put a more colourful shirt on…’Then there are the artefacts that promote people mixing. A conference is not just about the transfer of knowledge, it’s also about the people. Some of you will have been on a Safari Supper where you wander around the neighbourhood eating each course at a different house (all pre-arranged I hasten to add!). Each of these courses sees you sitting next to different people having different conversations. Conferences need to encourage this sort of activity as much as possible, but in as subtle a manner as possible.Chatting over drinks and food is a natural, and having ‘shared stuff’ to comment on is also useful; think of book stalls or other exhibits. UXBristol has a big advantage in this respect, the fact that each presentation involves a high-degree of hands-on activity ensures that participants don’t just sit dozing on their chairs for 50 minutes, they are up and about, chatting, sketching, sitting opposite one another, sticking post-its on anything that moves.So UX does have some inherent advantages, and new technology plays a part… but of course the other possibility is that UX people just know instinctively what the ingredients are for a good conference…Read more articles on 

I stumbled upon UX/UI design while working on my first startup. I was working in conjunction with a full stack developer who insisted we onboard a UX/UI guy he knew to work on the overall design. This took convincing because from the outset I was convinced I could do the job myself.I studied Architecture at the University of Michigan. Here is where I was introduced to design and began working with my ever-favorites, Illustrator and Photoshop. I strayed from design-based work for close to three years where I worked industry-side MA for a language services company in New York, before leaving to work on an idea of my own.Over time, I’ve come into contact with many graduates from General Assembly who spoke quite highly of the program they undertook. Some of them working on startups of their own, some working in the profession they chose to study at GA, and some doing both.One of the hardest things about starting a company in tech was that I knew no one in tech… and even less about starting a tech company. It felt like I was standing on the outside and the idea alone was not enough to bring me in.The culmination of my experiences led me to be certain about one thing: I wanted to continue to develop my creative and design skills while learning and mastering the more technical, research-side of UX/UI. I put my idea on-ice, while I work to better my technical offerings. In time, the goal is to return to work on the same, or another, idea, a much more wiser and technically proficient contributor after having gained experience contributing to startups/solopreneurs/businesses/etc.

Things just spiral up from there. SWOT analysis , future projections and these Thats it , you feel your dream will come true and your idea will be the next big thing to be talked about in magazines.Down to making it a reality is where the best of us get stuck! Being from a management or a non design background we think we can go online , find an epic “hidden talent” type freelancer and get the ball rolling. If only it was that simple!. You soon come to hear of UX Design , I mean design for us only meant a website / app design what the hell is UX.User Experience or UX is understanding the How , what and why of how your users are going to behave on your App/website. It’s getting the Experience your user’s are expecting right so that they feel at home and understand the platform the way you imagined it with all its glory in your head.There are two ways to move forward after this realization dawns. One that we just get it designed which ever way we can and go live , hope as hell that people like it and give you the success you deserve. Second is that you embrace the power of User Experience design and There is a lot of material online to help you with your journey of understanding UX Design. If you’re Not a fan of reading then try these videosPhotography,Metallica,Cannibal Corpse,Korn,PearlJam,Coldplay,Engines and Machines.. thats what iam about!!!

While I was enjoying a well appreciated family break in Charleston, I bumped into a weird object that made me think.Here is the suspect:Ok so what’s the particularity here? Well, aside from the fact that they use an old device and updated it by removing the handle at the bottom (very confusing as you read all the messages and when it says “Insert coin — Turn handle to right as far as possible after each coin” you can’t find the said handle…), Yes, really. It took me a bit of time to actually process all the information and it’s only after I’ve put some coins (without turning the handle, duh!) that I realized I could have paid by credit card.Ok so here the User Experience is definitely improvable but I want to talk about something else.The beauty of this object is the fact that That’s what got me excited. Here you only see one tear and the credit card icon with an arrow. This let me thinking about invisible products and services that we will design in the near future and I wanted to share I see this being the next generation of product design. This is the crucial part. The hard part is not building a solution: you need to, first, Try and try again. The Apple Watch interaction is so different from what we experienced in the past. The haptic vibration is almost an organic interaction and it even brings a comfort versus the noise notifications we are used to. Wired published This article was included on the issue #7 of my curated publication “Don’t forget to sign up for it to receive new tips and tricks on your inbox.“A driven, brave  creative independent Product Designer who makes honest design. And sews vintage dresses. Part of 

I enjoy coding because it allows me to make digital things with both hardware and software. I studied computer engineering at the University of Waterloo then I was a developer for 8 years. I worked on software which dealt with automotive manufacturing to investment banking. However coding wasn’t the favourite part of my job. The part of the job that I enjoyed the most was gathering information on the business problem and working on what the solution should be.In an enterprise environment the role of gathering of business information was designated to the business analyst. I did that for a while and produced documents which listed the functional and non functional requirements. Although I learnt a lot about the business, I was missing out on the other side of the applications — the users.Most designers I worked with, I never saw. I gave them the requirements and they gave me a design back. The designs missed out the real purpose and was just putting the lipstick on my Visio diagrams. I didn’t like this process but was there a better way?This all changed when I worked closely with one designer who did interviews and workshops with users before he even touched Illustrator. He gathered information about the business and produced documents in a visual manner with sketches and wireframes. The business were more responsive in reviewing the requirements of the project and provided more insight on what their needs were. I wanted to create the same collaborative process.My colleague recommended that I read Over the next two years I refined my process as a developer to include some of these practices of sketching, wireframing, interviews and workshops in my day to day role. I knew I was doing something right when traders who are strapped for time were asking for wireframes so that they can discuss concepts for new features. Working in this environment also meant that I didn’t create huge amounts of documents but just the necessary ones.The next step was making the jump from developer to designer. All I had at the moment were financial trading applications, how could I relate this to other types of apps? I needed a wider breadth of experience. I invested personal time into a few personal projects and helped out a start up designing a mobile payment experience. I managed to get a job at an UX agency which focused on financial services.Once in my new role, I knew there was still much I had to learn. Using different tools like Omnigraffle and Axure were easy to learn but the major ones was handling design critiques, design principles and presentations. Thanks to the feedback from people I have worked with, it has helped me improve along this evolving journey.Moving from being a developer to a designer allowed me to keep solving problems. Instead of the how, I am now approaching problem solving by focusing on the why.There are a lot of similarities and parallels between the worlds between business analysis and UX designer. User stories and system diagrams versus personas and experience maps. Data flows versus user flows. For a while we have treated these activities as being separate worlds. But the software we build have those two sides — the business and the user. One can’t be without the other. It is one product.The biggest lesson to date for me is that UX design cannot be done alone. It requires business, technology and user research to come up with the right user experience. This makes me wonder how this industry will evolve in the future as we become more collaborative.For more stories of other UX designers who came from a development background, here is an excellent write up from A Canadian in London. UX designer by day. Trying to live life to the fullest otherwise.

Finally, Zeus blesses you and your turn arrives.Instead of granting your wish he ordered a grizzly looking (and tasting), hideous imitation of a burger. This is not what you’ve been waiting for. This is not the ‘thing’ for which you were bearing those impatient pushes. No this is not the gift of nature.You’ve been cheated. Ditched. Dumped. And double crossed by the gods sitting above and the person standing behind the counter. You try to speak again “excuse me, but this is not what I was ordering..” Before you could finish you get a polite but a downright irritating reply “Sir, please stand aside. Your order will be ready in a minute”Feeling cheated and deeply hurt, you stand aside and wait for that ‘thing’ to arrive. It does, and like a convict who has been sentenced to a life term, you fall on your knees and cry. The world has ended for you. The trees don’t inspire you. The winds don’t swoon you into love. Nothing happens. It’s all over.You might start to eat it, but you won’t feel anything. You won’t be satisfied. You won’t finish eating it.Well there is a good news. This situation led me to think how important it is to understand the user and deliver accordingly. It taught me a very important lesson about my profession.While creating content understanding the audience is very important. Are they pupils of Shakespeare or children of the internet age? Will they be perpetually mortified if they don’t understand my content or will they just hashtag it (#WhatWasIt). Finding out the answer for this is crucial. It will help you in:The question that pops up is how to find out what the audience needs. There are many ways but all have the main underlying component: observe. Start observing what the target audience reads, what is their choice of vocabulary, and what kinds of content they share and like (yup social media can help a lot.) Then make a chart of the ‘power words’ those people use and like. Make sure you incorporate those words in your content. Using the sentence ‘the speed of the car melted the road’ won’t catch as much attention as ‘the speed of the car burned the track’ when writing for an auto magazine. I hope you get the point. Focus on the words they use daily. Then put them in your text to make them feel connected to it.Another aspect of understanding the user is the time limit the user would be using the product. If it is to be used daily, then ‘progressive content’ should be written. Progressive content means that the content would change depending upon the frequency of use of the product. The more it will be used, the easier would the text become. Example, a first time user would get something like this for a ‘Contact field’: “Please enter your contact number. Make sure it has the country code and the city code as well. Eg: +91–532–2659910”. However, for a user who has been using the product for a while now would simply get “Eg: +91–532–2659910”. This form of writing text should also be kept in mind. Really it should be.You have to consider the user at every step you are taking. It is much needed. You have to step in their shoes, and feel the way they behave with a product/website/app. Do they like ‘Apologies. It didn’t work’ or ‘Oops! Our bad!’? No matter how formal the product is, a little casual tone goes a long way. Just like in our daily lives. An anecdote in a serious meeting cheers everybody up. Right? Same goes for the content in a product.But then a user is none other than a normal human like you and me. They speak the same way we do. They say ‘Wow it was amazing’ just like we do. They love being appreciated just like we do. That’s why UX writing has to be as close as possible to what we do in our daily lives. We ‘like’ what we see. We ‘share’ what we ‘Liked’. We don’t ‘divide and give to others’ when we have to ‘share’. We just share.P.S. Imagine how your customers and consumers feel when they are greeted with a sad and morose message like “The page has crashed. Please reload the page.” instead of “Well that’s embarrassing! Let’s reload.”I have the brains to write, and the mind to think!!

At Digital Science, we organise the work of our central UX team into UX project work and Most recently, we’ve decided to share our library of excellent books about UX, design, process  methods by listing them on the wiki and hopefully increasing usage of that valuable resource.So please go ahead, browse the list below and share your thoughts…This book is a classic. It can be seen as the one of the corner pillars laying the foundation for the field of UX. This book is one of the primary texts used to each Human-Computer Interaction, or Interaction Design at universities around the world. This book is another primary text used to each Human-Computer Interaction, or Interaction Design at universities around the world. This book is another primary text used to each Human-Computer Interaction, or Interaction Design at universities around the world. This book does a great job at explaining fundamental principles of design — such as the golden ratio, 80/20 rule, attractiveness bias, etc.This book covers agenda setting, dealing with personalities, group facilitation, one-to-one facilitation and one-to-many facilitationThis book provides an in-depth overview of how to embed user story mapping into your development process to build the right product. In Alan Cooper’s words, this book is the “Rosetta Stone” for our digital age.This book covers personas, task models, user journeys, content requirements, sitemaps, wireframes, test reports and funnel diagrams. Head of User Experience at Digital Science, prev academic life as Teaching Fellow on Interaction Design and Researcher in Human-Computer Interaction at UCL

So another post, a third one, will be oriented most on getting the knowledge in most various ways. The most crucial part of starting another career.Basically reading is the number one way to get the knowledge for the beginning. But what I’ve discovered is that the number of information is so huge and it may seem like I am stuck in information overload. Finding the right information is pretty hard, so I am trying to stick to just few streams of information. So what I am following at the moment is an During my studies there was a presentation I’ve prepared about emotions in design, mostly web design. I’ve used the most fundamental book by D. Norman With my job, it is hard to find enough time for all of this, so I am trying to get most of my day in most various ways. So, listening to podcasts during my commute to and off the work, is just one of many. Here is a list of two podcasts I listen to: Read, listen and do. Yes, that’s the reason why I write this blog, but I do still miss a project I could work on in the meantime. I believe that this experience is incomparable to any number of read books or articles. Hopefully I could find a project i can finally work on and share something with you too.What’s your opinion? Do you have favorite book or podcast? Or do you know about a project looking for someone interested in helping on the UX side?Permanent IT student and want to be UX designer writes about his journey.

I actually find many more UX concerns with Inbox and Gmail.To your point on the history  back issue, there are actually at least two unique flows here, and it may depend on the URI scheme of the links in the emails. The flow that displays “ Inbox” is not actually exiting the Inbox app and opening the Chrome app. Instead, it is opening a UI Web View container in a layer over the rest of the Inbox UI, launching an instance of Chrome within it, and providing a custom nav bar element to close the view. The other flow simply exits the Inbox app, launches Chrome app, and resolves to URL. In this instance, the links open new tabs.I am not condoning these experiences, simply pointing out that there is more than one.arranging pixels. ui/ux/dev/design. cd and ux director 

For starters, in order to be able to connect Content Strategy with User Experience, we need to first define what each of these terms mean.It’s really common nowadays for companies or individuals to utilize a blog in order to get more traffic on their website and thus get people to buy some of their products, or do whatever their goal is for their customers. Even though this is a great way to attract customers to our websites by creating content, it’s not the only way. In fact, blogs are just a tiny fraction of what content is and includes, but often it gets confused as being just that.Now, having defined what content is, let’s see what Moving on to It is not easy to make or manage the content strategy. There are several roles included in that, and even though it would be ideal for one strategist to conquer them all, it still makes it really difficult for just one person to assume all those roles and be really good at each one of those. Let’s have a look at some of those roles:These are just a few of the most important aspects of content strategy. They are all essential to user experience, as they make up bits and pieces of it. So when we take the strategy holistically, it’s apparent that they contribute to the overall experience of the user, from the moment they discover our content outside of our website, to the time that they enter our site and interact with it.A content strategist needs to ask questions like “What is content?”, “What voice do we want to get out to the world?” and “How would content help us achieve our goals and objectives?”. After that, they should make sure to apply “good content”. But how would we define a good content? A checklist developed by Erin Kissane helps us tackle this. She says, content must be:The bottomline and end objective of any organization is to provide an excellent experience to their customers and make them keep coming back for more. Therefore, MDEI candidate at UWaterloo. Marketer and aspiring designer/UX. Lover of travels and music. “Dreaming Big”

I worked in this project with my three colleges Liv, Zein and Penny. My role was as a team facilitator and we started analysing the Brief and the needs of our client and the users.Our brief was create a new feature on Quora to get expert users to produce ‘paid’ Video AMA style sessions for the Quora community. Currently users of Quora can only view single answers in a text based format.So we began our research by looking into how the online market of Question and Answer (QA) style websites work — including Quora, Reddit, Google, Youtube and stack-exchange.This gave us real insight into what aspects of the site each were really succeeding in.Ask Me Anything style QA’s are not available on Quora and therefore when trying to map the users journey through choosing a AMA on an acedemic style site like Quora, is significantly cut short.We followed the ‘We started by exploring how Quora works and what they are currently offering to their community. Then we proceeded by studying the market and the competitors, we used three forms of research: We analysed direct competitors of Quora(Reddit, Stack Exchange and Twitter) in the matter of how they integrated QA on their platforms and indirect competitors(Google Hangouts,Periscope, Youtube and Ted Talks) with how they offer video as a communication tool between online users.We conducted a survey to understand how people currently look for questions and answers on the internet, and how we can implement this new feature so that it can be provide a pleasurable, efficient and recognisable experience.Many of the results clarified some early assumptions, such as: Google being the most used search engine to ask a question, and people watching instructional videos on Youtube.Other notable results included:89% of respondents prefer google as a mean to search for answers to their questions, and then proceed to the displayed websites from the results page to view the answers.The survey showed that people judged if a website is trustworthy through its brand, if it included experts providing information and community votes.To build on our survey results and to have better qualitative information, we interviewed both people who looked for answers online, and those who answered questions online.Key insights from people looking for answers:Key insights from people who provide answers:A common key point from both groups was that most people did not know what ‘Ask Me Anything’ sessions were.In order to understand and define what features and use cases our targeted users might need we did a We created a task analysis and task flows of Quora and other competitors’ current processes of asking questions, providing answers and conducting video calls. This helped us define how the needed systems worked and gave us an idea of what features might be needed.We next gathered the information from the surveys and interviews and created four personas that represented four key groups of people who would use the Video ‘Ask Me Anything’ feature of the Quora site.We chose Samantha to be our main persona as she represented the biggest group of Quora.com users.We therefore developed the new feature with Samantha in mind.To decide and select the features that will form our new suggested concept, we looked into Quora’s objectives and Samantha needs.We then prioritised the minmal features needed to develop and validate the our design idea.We used the MoSCoW technique — placing features in order or necessity and importance for initial development.We conducted a From the design studio, we sketched the two main pages of our our concept: The questions page where the community can submit questions to the expert and vote on the best ones, and the answer page where the expert answers via a video session.We tested our early concept using a paper prototype with the users.Since Quora.com is a mostly text based platform, users were a bit confused with the lack of details on the prototype. We had to upgrade the fidelity of the prototype to get a more conclusive feedaback.Some quotes from the users:From this test, we found out that users were confused with the notification icon and how it works on the avatar. Also users asked how will they asnwer be dispalyed on the video and as a text.Some quotes from the users:From the feedback our users we iterated the wireframes and upgraded the fidelity to recieve a higher quality feedback.After testing it, we re-evaluated how filtering and information was provided about the ‘Ask an Expert’ section of the website. We followed the theme of Quora by having ‘topic tags’ as the filter to explain what each ‘Ask an Expert’ would be about. We also wanted to include visual information about academic credentials (such as university symbols) as part of biography section of the ‘Ask an Expert’ page.Feedback from the user testing of this prototype was generally positive, and can be reflected in the following quotes:Although Samantha was our main persona to develop upon, we created mid-fidelity wireframes for how Jim, the ‘expert’, would create a video ‘Ask an Expert’ session on the Quora site.When tested, similar improvements were suggested, such as changing topic tags into a specific topic. Interestingly users felt that they did not need to include the preview option on the video page as they were confident that the content would be fine.To view the high fidelity prototype of ‘Ask an Expert’, please click here:

The study asked the first group of participants if they would drive 20 minutes out of their way to buy a $15 calculator for $5 off. About 70% of participants said they would. For comparison, they asked a second group of participants if they would drive 20 minutes out of their way to save $5 on a $125 jacket. This time, only 29% said they would.So what’s the rationale behind this seeming irrationality? In the case of the calculator, the participant would be saving 33% off the original price, which feels like a great deal. On the flip side, she is only saving 4% when $5 is taken off the $125 coat and that just doesn’t seem worth it.It’s all about the framing!Originally posted on the blog “ux designer 

Si entras en una tienda, incluso si no hay ningún nombre ni ningún producto expuesto, sabes inmediatamente si es una tienda barata o una marca de lujo sólo mirando el espacio. Y cuando los productos están perfectamente colocados, el efecto es aún mayor. No necesitas conocer la marca, simplemente lo sabes.Hay un diseño de tiendas para marcas de lujo espectacular. Y algunos piensan que eso se debe a que tienen el dinero para ello. Y la cantidad de espacio que usan y su diseño no son baratos. Pero no gastan ese dinero porque quieran complacerte. Lo hacen porque quieren tu dinero. Si lo tienes.Todo está hecho con esmero para ofrecerte una experiencia única. Entrar en una tienda de lujo puede parecer intimidante desde fuera, pero una vez dentro, es una maravilla. Los productos están colocados con cuidado. El ambiente es agradable y acogedor, pero también bello y atrayente. Los empleados de la tienda son agradables y sonríen, y tienes toda su atención porque no hay colas, no hay esperas, no hay más gente. La iluminación es la adecuada para paladear los colores y materiales. Incluso el olor está deliciosamente calculado. Es tan agradable que te sienta bien darles tu dinero. De eso trata el lujo, no de poseer cosas caras sino de alegrarte de gastar tu dinero en ellas.No es que el diseño de tienda para una marca de lujo o una tienda barata sean distintos. Es que no son comparables. Como si hablaran diferentes idiomas.En una tienda barata tienes muchas opciones, no importa que no te atraiga mucho ninguna, porque siempre encontrarás algo que te guste. En una tienda de lujo, tienes una pequeña selección de propuestas que puedes adorar, incluso si no estás dispuesto a comprarlas.En una tienda barata tienes todos los colores posibles para una prenda, todos los tejidos posibles, todas las tallas posibles, y varias copias de cada uno, por si alguno tiene alguna imperfección. En una tienda de lujo tienes una prenda única hermosamente fabricada en un único color y tejido, y muy probablemente no en todas las tallas.En una tienda barata te dan un montón de opciones al mismo tiempo, y tienes que seguir un proceso de eliminación para poder encontrar algo que pueda encajar en tus necesidades. En una tienda de lujo descubres prendas exclusivas, de una en una, y si cualquiera de ellas es remotamente cercana a encajar, eso dispara tu deseo.¿Cuál de esos dos ejemplos crees que se parece más a la manera en como encuentras gente en una app de citas?En la descripción de cualquier app de citas encontrarás un número de gente que la usa. Miles, cientos de miles, millones. Te ofrecen toda esa gente al mismo tiempo. Empiezas a usar la app y encuentras a centenares de nuevas caras a tu alrededor, una docena cada vez, y tienes que seguir un proceso de eliminación para poder encontrar algo que pueda encajar en tus necesidades. Y eso genera dos problemas.Existe la idea culturalmente aceptada de que para encontrar a tu alma gemela tienes que equivocarte varias veces antes, popularmente conocido como «El proceso de eliminación de las apps de citas es muy diferente. Se basa en reglas generales o en cifras. Ninguna persona más alta o más baja que yo, ninguna persona gorda, ninguna persona sin empleo, ninguna persona más vieja o más joven que yo. Todas esas reglas, que siguen una lógica de programación — coger toda la información y aplicarle filtros — no debería poder aplicarse a seres humanos. Incluso temas polémicos como la raza se toman a la ligera — como eliminar a todas las personas de una raza o a cualquier persona de una raza distinta a la del usuario.Después de eliminar al noventa y cinco por ciento de la gente en una app de citas, aún tienes algunas docenas — o cientos dependiendo de la popularidad de la app en tu zona — para escoger. Y habiendo eliminado miles, es más fácil seguir eliminando por cualquier razón estúpida. Como «La gente se vuelve desechable. Y el usuario se vuelve maleducado. «No tengo una respuesta mágica que resuelva esos problemas de un plumazo. Pero hay algunas cosas que los diseñadores de UX de las apps de citas podrían aprender de los diseñadores de espacios para dejar de menospreciar a la gente.No apiles a la gente como cajas. Deja que el usuario encuentre a cada individuo con tiempo para apreciar quien es y el valor de su única mezcla de cualidades. Convertir el proceso de eliminación en un proceso de descubrimiento. Deja que el usuario desee conocer a gente.Ningún perfil es apropiado para todo el mundo. Algunas personas son abiertas y están dispuestas a compartir detalles o experiencias de su vida con todo el mundo, y algunas personas se sienten más cómodas envueltas en un poco de misterio. Algunas personas quieren dejar ver su apariencia física lo primero, y algunas personas prefieren empezar una conversación antes. Para algunas personas el aspecto más importante de sus vidas son sus trabajos, para otras sus familias, o sus mascotas, o sus amigos, o sus coches.Deja que la gente exprese su unicidad más allá de dejar partes de su perfil en blanco. Déjales escoger cómo los demás los conocen, los aprecian. Los aman.Deja que la gente sepa que hay otra gente tras la app, que os preocupáis y estáis ahí para ellos. Moderar un texto o una foto en un perfil simplemente eliminándolo sin más no ayuda a nadie. Responde a sus preguntas, muéstrate disponible y ayúdales a vivir una experiencia positiva.There are two passions in my life: the one I’ve had my entire life is design, and the one that is still growing inside me is fitness.

Upon given the task of creating a newly invisioned news aggregator app in 4 days, I let my own assumptions of what people would want from a news aggregator get in the way immediately. Not liking news aggregator apps myself, I imagined that most people prefer reading their news indirectly via social media, or would like to get notified about breaking news stories as they surface. However, through my research, I realized that my assumptions were based off of my own limited experiences, and not those of whom would be getting the most use out of this application.I began gathering information and insight by conducting 5 interviews consisting both of users and non-users of news aggregator apps. Whilst picking the brain of each interviewee, I began to notice some trends and patterns during each interview. Through a series of 8 questions, I was able to pin-point each users’ After interviewing only two people, I realized that my initial assumptions were entirely misguided and wrong. I then interviewed 3 more people in order to validate what I had already learned about the user thus far.Although the interviews didn’t last long, I was able to compile the information and compare it using a word frequency chart. This was to ensure that common goals were realized and that the expectations were reenforced.From the data that I gathered through my research, I discovered some key behaviors and trends amongst users:The design had to be simple and use as little text as possible, yet still provide the same amount of information and context as the original article. The design would also lend itself to users who are left confused after reading an article that lacks context by providing a timeline of events option, as well as related articles and videos that pertain to a particular story. In order to do this, I came up with the following prototype:Whilst testing the initial prototype with a user, I came to a few conclusions in terms of its design and the conventions used.Having tested on a user who is a developer, I believe the results were a bit biased in terms of the design’s constraints, however, when I tested on an everyday user, I asked the question, For the first iteration, I chose to incorperate a Since I was testing a user that was technology-savvy, and an avid reader of news articles, the takeaways are a bit skewed, but informative nonetheless. The changes expressed by the user included:As a result of my findings, I iterated once more.Although I have yet to test this version, I believe it solved a few key problems — provides a shortened summary, and places related articles and videos within the article itself, allowing the user to understand the article’s context more easily (if desired), and declutters the landing page.—

Мы делаем классные приложения, решаем проблемы, помогаем пользователям достигнуть цели. Но знаете где прячется самая настоящая проблема? Иногда люди не пользуются нашим продуктом, потому что мы плохо спроектировали процесс знакомства с приложением.Вот такой классный список ошибок разработчиков собрал Байрам Аннаков, сотрудник Appintheair:Не заставляйте пользователей регистрироваться при знакомстве с приложением. ВамКстати, не забудьте объяснить им, какие плюсы для себя они извлекут — например, синхронизацию данных между устройствами.Оставьте пользователя в покое. Серьезно. Не заставляйте его листать 10 слайдов, чтобы объяснить, как работает калькулятор. Лучше сделайте интуитивный интерфейс.Мы все знаем, что контакт с пользователем важен для удержания. Уверена, вы хотите посылать вашим пользователям письма и пуш-уведомления, чтобы они поскорее вернулись обратно в приложение. Но для этого совершенно не обязательно просить доступ на первом экране. Объясните, зачем вам нужен такой доступ.Или, еще лучше, вы можете попросить доступ, когда пользователь совершает действие, которое показывает, что он потенциально может быть заинтересован в уведомлениях. Отличный пример это приложения для банкинга. Большинство клиентов хочет получать уведомления о всех своих транзакциях, поэтому при знакомстве с интерфейсом транзакций в приложении их можно попросить разрешить приложению отправлять пуши.Некоторые приложения впихивают все инструкции на один экран. Не делайте так. Это ужасно. Ни один пользователь не запомнит, что вы написали. Лучше обучать пользователя, когда он уже в приложении.Иногда люди переустанавливают ваше приложение — например, если они купили новый телефон. Вы же не хотите, чтобы ваш давний пользователь раздраженно листал вашу инструкцию из ста страниц? Дайте им пропустить ее. Сэкономьте их время и они скажут вам спасибо.Нет ничего хуже пустого экрана. Джош Элман из Twitter называл их “черные экраны смерти”. Расположите на них инструкции. и избегайте пустых экранов, которые раздражают пользователей.Это важно. Недостаточно измерять CTR, CTA или загрузки. Измеряйте количество пользователей, которые удачно завершили процесс знакомства. Изучайте, почему пользователи закрывают приложение и постоянно оптимизируйте их опыт. Если ваш пользователь не прошел через процесс знакомства с приложением, он не понимает его сути и функций, и скорее всего, не будет его использовать.После исправления этих семи ошибок уровень конверсии процесса знакомства (onboarding) вырос с 50% до 95%.Джон Элман считает, что главный секрет успеха Twitter — это процесс onboarding. Пользователи учились использовать Twitter быстро и просто.Маленькое домашнее задание: познакомьтесь с тем, как популярные сервисы и мобильные приложения Оригинал статьи можно прочитать тут Менеджер продукта в MyBook. Женщина-песец.

Project 4 was an exciting challenge. Our team of three UX designers were tasked to explore a problem/area of opportunity for an existing brand so that we can work with technical constraints. Our teammates had diverse interests in gaming, media, and education. Never-the-less, we all agreed to look at YouTube. With over 300 of videos uploaded a minute, YouTube has something for everyone, surprisingly in the higher education sector.The platform engages users with videos from content creators. Therefore the opportunity identified was to create a learning platform that goes beyond simply presenting content by way of videos/tutorials, and bring users to its site by offering structured and transparent learning content.Our solution: To create YouTube Learn; a learning platform that aggregates all of YouTubes educational videos in one place by using the massive open online course (MOOC) model. This external platform will exist as one of YouTube’s properties just like its gaming channel.Each team member shared tasks in user research, ideation, wireframes, visual design and task delegation as well as working independently on a few responsibilitiesTeam members:- User Research (surveys, interviews and contextual inquiries)Out of 44 responses, we were able to get key information concerning online learning habits:40% of our respondents sought information online 10+ times per weekMost important factors in online learning were ease of access, legitimacyof information, and price92% of our respondents used YouTube as a sourceMost respondents use YouTube to seek out subject based learningOur team went to work making sense of the data gathered by surveys and and user findings. We categorized responses via topics:Search methodsLearning behaviorPaid vs. freePainsQualityTimeThe landscape of online learning is shared by notable sites such as Key takeaways:Our findings showed that although most users were familiar with YouTube, they would rather go to sites such as Our three main user personalities were based on user responses which gave empathy to their experience.Information from interviews, competitive/comparative analysis, surveys, and developed personas allowed us to prioritize usable features for YouTube Learn.We were then able to identify the Most Viable Product (MVP) for our design:RatingsProgress tracking sectionFiltering categoriesComments sectionsPlaylist queueThe user flow displays the course of action the user’s journey will take on YouTube Learn which also provide a design for wireframes.Users wanted to know the difference between how credible the video content was on YouTube Learn. They felt that it was still difficult to discern its credibility.Playlist and videos were confusing.Comments in Community section was confusing — not sure if it was for the video playlist or the selected video.Progress Tracker was not clear. Users preferred to have a description for videos viewed and which videos they should consider.Interactive prototype Demo: Usability testing is a key component in design and testing. Being that people have different learning behaviors, we found that our users had different concepts on the best visuals for a platform with so much content.Similarities in our team’s characteristics was both a blessing and curse. We found that because we have compliant personalties, we lacked leadership in areas where we needed to make immediate decisions. However, we were able to hurdle through and learn to make the best decision for our prototype by deadline.Have fun with the project. This is a safe environment to make mistakes and learn from them.App Content Creator at App Appeal, love dogs (I have three), and Im super creative!

UXDI Week 1 RetrospectiveDesign a mobile messaging app.I found this part of the process especially helpful. Not to get too heady, but a learning that really resonated with me was the idea of design being a collective process. Coming from a working environment in which tasks were often completed and solved single-handedly, my expectation in this context was the same. This led to quite a bit of anxiety actually as I feared I would not have all of the answers. In communicating with my class mates, I was able to glean insights that I would not have thought of. And hopefully, I in turn provided them with similar feedback. It felt pretty awesome to be helping each other out in this way and proved to be one of my favorite parts of the process, both in how much it helped and how differently I felt about it then I thought i would.Given more time, this is a step I would like to repeat with each pass of increased fidelity.Writer, ceramicist, designer, do-er.

So I’ve hit the 6th week of my User Experience Design Immersive at General Assembly. This one was a bit different for a couple of reasons:I got great feedback for my last two projects but I wondered how I would show any improvement form the beginning. “It’s not just me, so how do I get more feedback while I’m a part of a trio?”, I thought. I decided to hit the ground running and if anyone was moving faster, I would catch up. Through this self-centered rationale I began meeting with my team. The others were equally motivated but as we moved forward, we all inevitably became more human. Our schedule was great and captured everything that we wanted to do. Somehow… it went so well that we even had time to just talk after a long day’s kicking ass. No slacking and now we’re all conversing.My robot brain couldn’t comprehend what was going on but I indulged.This was probably this best group project that I’ve ever been a part of. Rina and Alina are two awesome UXers who ask questions, research, and iterate with methods that i’m glad to have picked up. The uncanny thing about this project is it slowly became less and less about what I brought to the table. Any one person’s skills in our team were graciously made a part of the whole. The giving and genuine support made it easy to always perform at your best. Late nights happened but it didn’t feel like too much.Our client was Delta and the challenge was to present certain analog services, digitally, within the existing Fly Delta application. Our team, which we dubbed Team Badass, dove in with surveys, contextual and hueristic analyses. Alina asked questions in a manner that shaped our focus. It was much more different than I how I would’ve surveyed on my own. Rina complimented what we gathered from surveying by being able to dive in and dissect Delta’s brand.I knew that research was a growth area for me but working these two gave me some methods to replicate. As we dove into developing I started out doing a lot of the wireframing but something happened when we began to do the second and third iterations. We split the work for everything which allowed us to imitate and be corrected by each other.My group’s combined expertise has stretched what I am capable of. I don’t think that that’s as cool as having two badass friends in my new field though.Storyteller and UX designer

One night, during a recent UX conference, I was eating with a group of conference speakers and fellow attendees. Burgers and beer were flowing freely when I unwittingly mentioned “Wouldn’t it be cool if someone from Zynga gave a presentation on Dark UX?”Jaws dropped. A table of UX VPs, strategists and directors fell silent.“Did you just make that up?” someone asks.This is an interesting situation. As practicing UX professionals we know that we are directly influencing human actions and behavior. Among this group of industry experts the very thought of the Dark Side had never formed.What is Dark UX? Here’s how Essentially it’s old fashioned manipulation. By reversing people’s natural behavior and expectations someone with malintent can accomplish terrible goals.The fact that this hadn’t occurred to a group of UX experts is telling that our industry is inherently honest. Articles over at Wherever this practice originates, we as UX practitioners should be able to recognize when we’re asked to design dark patterns so we don’t manipulate our users and stay on the Light Side of the UX Force.Experience  Innovation

In the prior post, I had picked out some common Apps that are widely used and need improvement. Starbucks was one that I have avery difficult time with. One aspect of the experience that is challenging is loading a card on the App. We often get gift starbucks cards as gifts and it’s so tidious to sit there and type the tiny code in the app. I would like to see a simple feature where I can just add the code via a barcode scanner. This would stream line the process. It is tough to find the place where you want to add a card so It would be good to add a button that had a plus symbol easily taking the user to the place where they can scan in a card.UXer, visual journalist, educator, multimedia expert, former director of photography 

Simplicity is the foundation of all UI/UX web design principles — but the process to get there is anything but. Walking in the user’s shoes. Systematically checking for weaknesses. Optimizing the individual elements. The task requires empathy, strategy, insight, and execution.Desktop. Laptop. Tablet. Phone. Music player. Gaming console. Watch. The number of devices visitors use to get to your website has grown by leaps and bounds. User experience is at the center of them all.It’s one thing to Today, visitors demand a smart phone experience as user-friendly as the desktop experience. It’s a challenging task — but a highly rewarding one for users and brands alike.What’s the one thing visitors search for on your website? Smart navigation systems are instantly recognizable and easy to use. Optimized navigations guide visitors to content in the least possible number of clicks or taps of a finger.The navigation is a critical component to the user experience of a website. Users must be able to easily scan the navigation and track down their destination. It’s what smart Knowing We live in a world of increasingly short attention spans. Rather than read content in depth, users are more likely to scan. The good news: you can help A visual hierarchy makes the most important thing on the screen the focal point. Smart designers Links and buttons are the Internet equivalent of shelves at a brick and mortar store. Imagine the feeling when the item you came to purchase is out of stock. Well, it’s the same as encountering a broken link or non-clickable button.404 errors. Links pointing to the wrong pages. Underlined words that aren’t links. Call-to-actions without hyperlinks. Is there a clear function your website has to offer to the end user? Smart Auto-play videos with audio. Hijacked scrolling. Background music. Opening links in new tabs or windows. Certain design elements cause more problems than they aim to solve. Mostly, users hate them.Remember, you’re building a “user experience” — so focus the experience on the user. Use irritating, automatic design elements sparingly — or not at all.Design is important — but only when it respects readability. Remember, every visitor’s goal is to consume content. Busy backgrounds, poor color schemes, and other design pitfalls spell disaster for content consumption.Line length. Line height. Kerning. Font choice. Each one can pose a serious issue for website readability. Smart UI/UX design requires a strong foundation in typography — including the ability to utilize it properly to keep distracting design from taking over.Headings. Pictures. Buttons. Blocks. Users rely on visual cues to know exactly where to focus their attention. Beyond attracting attention, visual cues can effectively Rather than randomly browse through your pages, you want users to know exactly what to look at, what to click, and even how to buy. If the action on your website is lower than you anticipated, consider adding some visual cues.Headings are easy to scan. Pictures can illustrate points. Content blocks send the message certain content is unique and more important. In a world with short attention spans, visual clues are especially important to smart UI/UX web design.Let’s go back to the brick and mortar example. Just as frustrating as an out of stock product is a product in the wrong section. If an employee directs you to the cereal aisle, then you better find the Cheerios there.The same is true for UI/UX design. Why is content relevance so important? Because users want to consume content by jumping through the least amount of hoops. The website with the smallest number of hoops is the one that closes the deal.We already know about users with short attention spans. Well, meet their best friend — the user without patience. Just as lengthy content can bounce a website visitor, so can slow loading pages.Users have certain expectations about site loading speeds — and few are willing to budge. Certain design elements — large images, for example — can slow a site to a frustrating pace. Speed is everything to an impatient end user. Never keep a potential customer waiting. Rid your site of anything that slows it down.It’s easy to get design-happy with a website. If the goal is to focus on the content, then design overkill can be your worst enemy. Overly aggressive design can range from excessive headings to flash and animation. Multiple call-to-actions can not only confuse users but scare them away. Just imagine the damage frequent pop-up boxes can do.Smart UI/UX design features just the right amount of design without taking away from the whole. Feel free to experiment with various design elements. Just don’t make them compete for attention.This post originally appeared on the The Web Design Company Driven By Digital Fluency, Creative Innovation, and Client Success.The Web Design Company Driven By Digital Fluency, Creative Innovation, and Client Success.

I’m relatively new to the world of UX (at least it’s methodologies), but since I made the conscious shift I’ve noticed a growing preoccupation with the deliverables that are produced by the UX Designer rather than the final result.Don’t get me wrong I understand that a lot of what makes UX so strong are the deliverables that are created to support an argument and make it valid, but let’s be honest, how often is there really time and budget to go through the full process and put together all the documents, mockups, sitemaps, card sorting personas, prototypes etc.?If it was as easy as that such concepts as Lean UX and Agile UX probably wouldn’t ever be needed. We would do everything nice and organised and have a nice folder with all the content for each project.The real world isn’t that simple, even if we wish it was.This is the comment I see the most in UX job postings and it’s a good comment and the answer can ultimately give us great insight into he UX designer’s process and thoughts.Sometimes the designer can spin an incredible tale of adventure with various interviews and meetings. The team workshops and interactions where incredible content was flowing out of every pen and paper. Personas that formed out of data with ease and mockups that can almost make you believe in magic. At the end of the adventure everyone looks back at boxes full of deliverables, a photo album of teamwork and an incredible product that delivers… everything!Other times… we have the clock monkey on top of us and stakeholders telling us that we’re making budget cutbacks so no spending is allowed until the next quarter. Often these stories consist of a quick brief meeting, quick research/discovery process and the designer dishing out mockups or even going straight to working prototypes because the stakeholders can’t imagine what you’re on about until they see what it will actually be like. This means we are forced to jump many UX steps, or do a more mental version of them.I’ve had projects where the deliverables are almost just 1 or 2 documents and the live version online.Many UX professionals at this point might be climbing the walls and saying: “well then, you can’t call what you do UX” or “without the deliverables how could you ever hope to present your case?”Before I go into that, let’s look at what UX at its core is. UX is about creating the best possible experience for the user with the idea that a happy user will keep coming back, feel fullfiled and ultimately invest more into what you’re selling, thus increasing revenue for the business.So the minute I decide to move a button to the top of a page and revenue and visitors go up, haven’t I just done UX? Isn’t UX ultimately about getting the experience right?I agree with the above statement and believe that what UX methodologies have brought to the table is incredible, making it possible to can make a more educated guest than before.But let’s remember that the data is there to support the final outcome and sometimes the data you’re going to have will be minimal. Sometimes you won’t need to interview as many people because you already know exactly what your stakeholders want. Other times the result of the changes can be seen long before you’ve normally had a chance to siv through analytics and feedback.Far from it, but I do believe that the deliverables should take the back seat they were intended to take. Sometimes we won’t be able to do it all because of constraints.What we as UX Designers do have to do is build up empathy and get to know the business and clients as soon as possible in order to not have to depend exclusively on the deliverables on each and every project. Accept that sometimes the story is quite short and that we have to show up at a second meeting after 24H with some kind of mockup or prototype.Is it fair? No. Without a doubt, being able to use the complete spectrum of UX deliverables and methodologies probably gets you closer to the ultimate UX experience with less error.Speaking from my own experience, stakeholders have come to trust my decisions and rationale to the point where just explaining it to them is enough and I don’t need to have dozens of deliverables to support it. Does this mean they trust me blindly? Far from it. I had to work to show them what I take into consideration and my levels of empathy and I often have to take deliverables to support many decisions… just not the whole range.All I ask is that you put the results in first place and remember that the deliverables are there to support your decisions. The next time you work on a project consider whether you really need all of the deliverables you’ve put together.Sure, they make your portfolio look great and if you’re presenting to a new client it makes you seem like you have everything well thought out, but do you really have the time to always do it well? Do you always have the budget to do as you please?Experienced digital creative, UX designer and Art director - Im a problem solver || Co-founder of 

University of Toronto: Bioethics and East Asian Studies. Freelance UX designer. When not designing: LoL, Hearthstone, HotS, MtG, Anime, Comic books

Achieving logged-in users is a fascinating topic. Businesses are desperate for them, the IT team want them as they equate to authentic, real people. The Marketing team want them so that they have potential leads in order to talk to or sadly at in some cases — though many Marketers are realising traditional marketing is about as attractive to web users as a root canal procedure. The UX team wants them so we can finally develop that sweet-ass dashboard we’ve been working on for 3 years.In fact the only group who don’t want to be logged-in are us users. Why? Because many of us are naturally mistrustful of brands knowing our details — even though we all have gmail accounts! Because it’s a drag, I mean it takes at least 4 seconds — which is an eternity in online time, I could have refreshed my Twitter timeline and send a Snapchat in that time.So how are you going to make me sign up or log in? It’s pretty simple really, only make me sign up when it’s something I as the user see benefit in. Make me understand why I must sign up, manage my expectations, tell me I’m not going to get spammed or at least that I can manage those notifications. Tailor your sign up to the task I am trying to complete — I’m not interested in joining your amazing community, I only want to leave this scathing review.Remember the web is the great leveller, the user is in charge. Companies are no longer in charge, we are.

There are many good articles about the One of my recent projects was to design an HR system for a global financial institution. From the beginning, a strategic decision was made to use interactive prototypes and not wireframes as a deliverable for UX design. The top reasons for this were that interactive prototypes:· Make it easier to grasp the concept of the proposed design from a very early stage· Give a greater sense of flow through the system· Allow for early and fast user validation (during Agile development this allows us to “Fail fast”)· Enable gaps and disconnections in the design to be discovered early — with wireframes these often go unnoticed until the late development stages· Make faster changes — updating prototype ­is quicker than updating a deck of PDF wireframesBut despite all of these upsides, interactive prototypes also have their downsides. The biggest downside is that the prototype don’t have the linear narrative of a deck of wireframes. Instead, it possess a more complex branching structure that was harder for a user to follow especially if he needs to tick off finished parts.Let’s have a look at the different people who are going to be working with the prototype and what their needs are:When working on smaller projects, like mobile apps, it is convenient to create one file that holds the full prototype. However, I found that it makes sense to break the prototype down into a number of smaller files when working on a large product that covers lots of functionality and more complex workflows.How to decide which part should be created separately?The development team is usually broken down on big projects and each sub-team builds a different part of the software. I found this to be the best way to break down the prototype. On our HR project, I broke the prototype down into 4 files:This kept file sizes smaller and the architecture of the prototype simpler, allowing each team to concentrate on a part that was relevant to them.The realisation of how important it is to have solid naming conventions occurred quite late to me, when the prototype had already got big and things started to get messy.Based on my experience, I would recommend having meaningful names, even if the titles get quite long. These names should be meaningful to all the prototype users. (This is also the reason why I didn’t go with numbers.)For example, in the folder called “Employee move” some of the pages had the following names:This might sound long, but if there is a large number of variations on the same task or flow, I would go for a clear name.In order to make it easier for the user to clearly see what functionality is new or changed I used colour.The blue elements signal to the user which parts of the prototype have been updated and need attention after a round of reviews.Note: These highlights have to be removed for user testing, so they do not affect the test results.This is relatively easy when working with wireframes. You send out an email with a list of page numbers that carry changes. It is more difficult with a big complex prototype, where you have added an entirely new interaction and there is no page number to send around.I tried a number of approaches, but I will use the “Cover page” in my next projects. In the cover page, I update details such as: the last modification date, version number (sometimes the sprint number) and a list of new or edited pages. I then link all items in the list to the relevant page in the prototype, including basic information about the prototype.This page is at the top and is the first page that users see when they open the prototype.I usually make my annotations dynamic to follow the transformation of the element they describe . When the element changes, the note reflects the change and communicates new information to the user. I know most software has annotation features, but I have found that most are not flexible enough and it can be annoying if there are many notes to open and close. I create a layer with all the required notes and add toggle control that allows them to be shown/hidden as necessary.Hiding annotations (top right) when showing the prototype to users or business people.Let’s pretend that you have a contextual menu that sits in a number of different processes. It is contextual and has different items based on decisions made by the user during previous stages of the process. Instead of creating a working prototype of a widget like this, for every instance, I create “Spec Pages”. These are pages where I describe the element in great detail, cover all of the edge cases and provide necessary business rules. I then place a dummy placeholder everywhere in the prototype where the element appears and link them to the spec page. This eliminates the need to update the element in multiple places when one of the business rules changes.I have learned a lot during this project. This is the first time the team and I relied fully on interactive prototypes. So here is some of the feedback I received from the users about this new way of working.Some of the back-end team can still be sceptical about certain aspects of the prototype approach and preferred the familiar linear deck of wireframes, which can be read like a book, putting bookmarks in necessary places and check marks on the finished parts. But even the most sceptical ones couldn’t deny all the positive aspects of using a prototype, especially the holistic feel of the system it offers and the ability to explore different flows both early and often to eliminate mistakes.Feedback from the front-end team was very positive. Instead of reading how the element should react on interaction or state changes, they can simply click and see. All the transitions and interactions are presented and the guessing work is taken out of the equation.Working with prototypes proved to be very convenient when describing the designs to this user. Like they say, one prototype is worth a thousand words and it proved to be a great tool to showcase and sell the designers’ vision.There is no question that presenting the prototype to users makes the testing task much easier. Prototype makes it easier to understand how everything flows — once you have finished explaining what has happened to the colours — and to get feedback both on the micro-interactions and structure as a whole.There is plenty more room to perfect how we can build and use prototypes in the development lifecycle. As we move more into Lean and Agile product development, we will see more and more work done from fully interactive prototypes. This for me doesn’t necessarily mean more complex, feature-heavy prototyping tools, but instead means more attention will be paid to the needs of all the members of the development team, as well as to finding creative solutions that will address all those needs in one prototype.Go ahead change the rules, then ignore them! But first lets observe and pick the strategy for it.

I know next to nothing about user experience design, yet I quit my job and signed up for General Assembly’s full-time immersive course. I am trying to go back to school in the fall 2016 semester, but I am still debating which major I want to study. I’m leaning toward the graphic design program at the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT), but when I went for the orientation, I saw that there were a bunch of different majors that sounded interesting and might fall more in line with what I would enjoy doing. I took a few introductory workshops on basic Illustrator, Photoshop, InDesign, and AutoCAD, and enrolled in General Assembly’s online Web Design Circuit course, where I tried to use my newly created Github website as a platform to showcase different design ideas. Since most of the majors at FIT require applicants to submit portfolios and the course work will involve technical knowledge, including user experience design knowledge, I figured I might as well use this opportunity to learn as much as I can about user experience design.I like that user experience design is a highly multi-disciplinary field that dabbles in a bit of research, design, and web development. I myself have a mixed background. As an undergrad, I double majored in health science and political science and was just a few credits away from triple majoring in journalism. I went back to school for continuing education courses and earned a certificate in medical billing and coding (sparked by my job as a pharmacy technician and having customers always asking me billing questions about their insurance), and a certificate in paralegal studies (sparked by my interest in learning about law and policies). Although I learned how to interpret and process pharmacy prescriptions from working as a pharmacy technician, and ended up getting jobs as a medical biller and a legal assistant, I learned quickly that even though it was useful to learn about certain disciplines, I wasn’t happy with the stagnant work and lack of upward mobility and pay. I like that user experience design uses practical approaches to solving problems, but is open to creative solutions that facilitate smooth transactions. User experience design focuses on solving problems, ones that are already there, and ones that might pop up later on, by examining existing practices, thinking of alternative solutions, testing things out, getting feedback, and ultimately making things easier for users. I want to be a part of that solution process and although I’m nervous, I’m excited to start my user experience design journey.

Nick covered three scenario’s on which design thinking is used to improve customer engagement.The first being Australia Post and the parcel collection process using iPad and beacons to improve the tracking and parcel collection process. Right tool for the right scenario. Know when and where a tool fall short. Google glass is not conducive at facilitating human-human interaction, but great for dealing with barcodes/processing information accurately. Bluetooth beacons also used to ensure the right item being loaded into the right truck.The second scenario being using Myo Armband to create a wearable device allowing service technician to have gesture control and continue controlling the schematic without having to put down tools or remove gloves.The final scenario combines an iPad, beacons, iPhone and Apple Watch to improve the loan origination process, working with both banking and real estate business. First part is the creation of a customer’s social insight dashboard mobile application containing information: net worth, milestones in life based on cues picked up from marketing engine. Next, the beacons carried by realtor at open house which talks to customer’s Apple watch. A popup notification appears when bank customer’s detected at an open house — helpfully prompting them with a mortgage/loan calculator.UI/UX  front-end designer with experience in both digital agency and lean-agile product environment. She ❤ SASS, languages, travel, coffee  cute animals

At first I thought I wasnt going to be able to design anything that would be all that interesting, what could you really change to a news aggregator app that doesnt already exist. I assumed I was going to be critiquing a small feature such as too many options for categories or some how avoid repeat articles. I assumed you could not come up with an original idea for this topic and I would find the assignment boring, which would really make the entire assignment difficult for me to do. With my career history in the sales and marketing fields, I have a mentality when it comes to designing that it has to be the best and have an innovative feature. I want my methods and designs to sell them selves.After carefully coming up with questions I interview three users. My participants consisted of two males and one female all ranging from mid to late twenties. On of the male participants was a user experience design student, the other male was an IT engineer and the female was an accountant. I chose to interview people outside of the course because I felt that so many other of my peers were interviewing each other and I did’nt want to have the same data as the rest of classmates.I attempted to sort my data using the affinity mapping method. However I had trouble finding commanilities with the interviews I conducted. I kept getting hung up on the fact that all three participants read their news through entirely different types of news apps.Twitter: social media appCNN: a news appFlipboard: an actual news aggregator appAt first I thought I should probably interview more participants or come up with more questions. Given the time constrant of the assignment I decided to take a different approach. The one thing that was common ground for every participant is they need to know the news and they need to get it from somewhere. Instead of focusing on what a typical news aggrigator app does I wanted to resolve the pain point of the one participant I knew would want the app and use the app.I then wanted to add features that pertained to the pain points of my other participants.My Goal is to design an app called The Design for my first iteration for NEXTS only allowed the user to create a next for specific times. I found this may be frustrating for the users who don’t want to have scheduled texts and/or the users that would want to create a new next instantly. My first iteration also had a setting to add phone number, which I realized wasnt a necessary feature and could be part of the back end design of the app.For the second iteration I created a section called NEXTS NOW. This allows the user to instantly create a next as opposed to waiting for the scheduled time. This would also allow the user to generate new articles if they did not like the ones that came in their original next. I also added a section called WHATS NEXTS, which is a breif description of how the app is intended to work.When testing my design with users I found that everyone actually wanted the app and couldnt believe it hasnt been done yet. One user commented on the direction of how the app swiped and would prefer it the other way which did make more sense. Overall it seemed to spark an interest by everyone that tried it.Design it so you have the option of loading the PDF in the app as well as in your ibooks library.Collaborate with a developer to write the app.

Я уже продолжительное время работаю UX специалистом в области Социальных медиа. И сейчас хочу поделиться как мне кажется главной проблемой в этой области. Во всех книгах по UX нас учат, что проектирование взаимодействия должно быть целе ориентированным. И в самом деле, если результатом открытия приложения должен быть заказ пиццы, то тут выстроить сценарий (состоящий из выбора пиццы, места доставки и оплаты) довольно просто.Например, я запускаю приложение что бы развлечь себя, скоротать время в очереди. Как в этом случае его проектировать? Что если я открываю приложение, чтобы поболтать с друзьями. Причём не сообщить то-то конкретное, а просто что бы обменяться информацией, потратить время в незатейливой беседе.Когда сервис запущен, принимать решения о верности того или иного решения довольно просто. Для этого есть множество инструментов, таких как ключевые метрики проекта и A/B тестирования вполне достаточно что бы однозначно принять решение о необходимости наличия определённой функции или об особенности поведения того или иного элемента интерфейса. По крайней мере в краткосрочной перспективе.Взять к примеру проектирование мобильного Мессенджера. Классический подход с проектированием сценариев поведения в этом случае просто захлёбывается в их количестве. Потому, что ограничить количество персон тут не получится. Нельзя сделать конкурент Facebook Messenger и WhatsApp, который бы работал только для Калифорнийских хипстеров, и не учитывал интересы домохозяек средней Азии. Московские рекламщики готовы заказывать такси при помощи Мессенджера и оплачивать друг-другу обеды. Минские дизайнеры-фрилансеры хотят через мессенджер отправлять исходники и принимать оплату. Ташкентская домохозяйка хочет узнать как дела у сына в другой стране, посмотреть его фотографии и иметь возможность обналичить деньги, которые он присылает ей. И таких случаев бесконечно много. Причём по каким-то бизнес-показателям тоже их особо не отсеять потому, что количество пользователей на первом этапе даже важнее качества.В случае такой катастрофической неразберихи и потерянности есть один очень хороший инструмент, который меня пока что выручал. Это исследования. Например, какое-то маркетинговое агенство выяснило, что 86% людей использую Facebook Messenger А что вы думаете? Как проектировать приложение для всех?UX

Staying current and at the top of your game can be hard, but is crucial for any leading designer. We never stop learning and nor should you, so to help we’ve compiled a collection of resources, places of inspiration and lifelines to the world of UX design.In no particular order…We’re huge fans of InVision as a wireframing and prototyping tool at Tractor, but the The website for UXPin (a wireframing and prototyping tool) has a Everyone loves Medium and the best thing about it is that it’ll give you viewpoints and ideas from a range of different authors rather than just a few. The The blog on Similar to Medium, Finding sources of inspiration and motivation is a good way to feed our passion and stay updated to the world of design. If you’re ready to delve into UX design, why not enrol with Tractor — Future focused and industry connected. This is design school reinvented. All tweets by Tractor - RTO20814.

This is the best and the most useful article among what I recently read about UX and products. Thank you for sharing. You present your idea clearly and effectively.

One thing about Material Design, however, has bugged me ever since it was introduced last year: FABs are circular buttons that float above the UI and are “used for a promoted action,” And because of the bold visual style of Material Design, FABs are strikingly hard to ignore and stand out — and herein lies the problem.FABs stand out visually — they’re literally on top of every other UI element on screen. As such, adding an FAB would automatically result in a UX that is less immersive, particularly affecting apps (or screens) that aim to provide an immersive experience.One example is Google’s new Photos app.The Photos app opens in a gallery view, with a floating search button. But the thing is, when I open a photos app, I just want to... view my photos.The search FAB thus Ironically, Google agrees with me. On its Material Design page about FABs, Google explains that “This might feel like another side of the same coin, but there’s another, perhaps more important, implication of the FAB getting in the way. By taking up real estate on the screen, But hey, the FAB is just a small circular button, right? How much content could it block?If you look at the screenshot of the Photos app, you’ll realise that the search FAB blocks around 50% of an image thumbnail — definitely large enough to cover a face or two. That’s an additional scroll needed whenever you want to look at every 4th thumbnail of the last row on screen. And that’s not even the worst case.User dumazy This means that an entire column the width of the FAB has to be sacrificed (by repositioning the star button, etc.) to allow for proper usability of the screen.When doing UX design, it’s useful to remember the 80/20 rule, which states that users will use 20% of the features 80% of the time. In other words, most effort should be placed on designing the few elements that users will use most of the time.The FAB actually does just that — theoretically. Take Google’s Gmail app for instance.The Gmail app’s FAB is the compose button, suggesting that the primary action users perform is to create an email.But is that true?Perhaps a handful would reply on their mobile devices, but that only happens after opening up an email (note that this means they’ll bypass the FAB). This user behaviour, likely caused by the rather imperfect input mechanism of virtual keyboards and autocorrect, means that the primary action users perform is actually reading (and replying) emails, not creating new ones.So what does the “compose an email” FAB do? On rare occasions, it provides users with delight when they immediately want to compose an email on the go with the app. But on other times, it just takes up screen space, blocks the star button and time stamp, and is a persistent distraction painted in striking red.Of course, not all applications of the FAB reduce the experience of using Material apps. There are some shining examples of FABs that make sense, and that therefore enhance the UX of those apps.Maps by Google is a great example of FAB done right. The main action performed by users on Maps is to get directions, so it makes perfect sense for an FAB that does just that.But consider that Maps is a pretty special case, where the content users are interested in almost always falls at the centre of the screen (where your blue position dot is). In most apps, however, grid or list views mean that users interact with content located everywhere on screen, including where FABs are most commonly located.Consider also that the screenshots above only tell part of the story: in actual use, these FABs stay where they are even when users So when examples of good FAB implementation are far and few between, it begs the question: do we need FABs?When we look at the drawbacks of having FABs on apps, we can boil it down to a simple realisation: The design of the FAB in Material Design is based on the premise that users perform a certain action most of the time, and therefore it should be accorded an elevated status in the form of a persistent, high-level button. But in many apps, users are focused on consuming content just as much (if not more): in the Photos app, users want to view photos; in Gmail app, users want to read their emails; and in the Facebook app, users want to read their friends’ posts.The FAB is thus a design philosophy (or at least, a design choice) that subordinates optimal content consumption to action-taking. And we need to ask ourselves: is such a trade-off needed? In fact, is such a trade-off When FABs result in diminished UX most of the time, when it’s hard to figure out the single most-used action within an app, and when roundabout methods need to be explored (like an FAB that disappears when scrolled, or lists with differently positioned elements), I’d say the answer is a pretty resounding no.Google’s Material Design is a pretty damn good piece of unified, principled design language, but the FAB, well, just isn’t that fab.I’m a graphic designer based in Singapore. I also publish a webcomic series and enjoy writing short fiction. And I’m studying accountancy. Bringing you stories on Asian tech and startups. Wanna submit a story to us on Medium? Email at 

A meme can travel halfway around the world while nuance is putting on its shoes.Ideas bounce around the Twitters, endorsed and adopted wholeheartedly through fear, surprise, or a fanatical dedication to the church of UX. Mobile-first, responsive over m-dot, prototypes over wireframes. These truths we hold to be self-evident. Complex and contextual ideas, reduced to tweetable dogma.So too the images which attempt to explain User Experience. The notorious Design vs User Experience ‘paths’ image has become retweet gold, passed around without context, comment, nor attribution. Such things may appear neat analogies at first glance. They don’t hold up to scrutiny.I know we mean well. But by the time the meme has been circulated third-hand by the shiny-faced marketing managers of LinkedIn, we’ve succeeded only in propagating a skewed and oversimplified view of our craft. We do ourselves no favours sometimes.A curious example underscores a lament I’ve heard more and more this year. And I wonder: What are we really getting at here? And why are we having to make this clarification now?What do we mean when we say Or perhaps when we say we ‘do UX’ we mean that we adopt a user-centered design approach. We’re defining UX as the process itself. That act of creation, informed by field research and validated through usability testing.But what is it we’re designing? Let’s come back to that one.So what too do we mean by From the punched card screenless computers in the 60s, the command line in the 70s, the GUI in the 80s, to the mobile devices and gestural wearables of today. Type and point and click and drag and tap and swipe and wave and twist and shout. Such is our vocabulary to express engagement, joy, or rage against the machine.Is that UI design? Building the electronic Fisher-Price Activity Centre by which our user can achieve their goal? And furthermore, if that design process incorporates user feedback throughout, is that effectively UX design too? In stating so emphatically that ‘UX is not UI’ are we merely making the distinction between our process and its output?Recent job postings appear to follow this reasoning. ‘UX/UI Designer’ they call it. Work quickly, iterate rapidly, design in the browser. Listen between the lines and you can hear it: “UX is not UI!” we persist, as we skill up in Axure, Framer, HTML, CSS, and other interface-building tools. And sure, we’re designing the user journey, the information architecture, maybe even the voice and tone of the microcopy, but for the most part all of these things are ultimately manifest in the design of the user interface.And that’s a problem. Because UX really isn’t UI. But by being limited, or even limiting ourselves, to such design execution, we’re making it so.In UX there’s no ‘one-size-fits-all’ design pattern for a given situation. Despite what clients ask, there’s no more a ‘best practice from a UX perspective’ than there is a ‘best recipe from a cookery perspective’.It’s about research, understanding, and evaluation. Figuring out the right problem to solve, before dipping into our toolbag of methods and patterns to solve it.That other definition of UX, the one about the outcome not the process, reminds us that we’re designing for behaviour. For attitude. For usefulness and desirability. In other words, putting something into the world that makes the world a little bit better.What have you done today to make you feel proud?Because here’s the thing. We’re not making closed software systems. The interaction we’re designing isn’t really between the computer and its operator.So UX design We’re relationship engineers.It happens in lots of small ways. Form design; perhaps the most explicit means for the customer to speak to the business. Content prioritisation; where your taxonomy says a lot about what you believe to be true and to be important. Design decisions; especially the careful and deliberate restrictions you impose. Twitter’s 140-character limit. Instagram’s refusal to allow uploads from the computer. Both examples of engineering a specific kind of relationship.These things stem from fundamental brand proposition. For app startups in particular, the product and its customer relationship effectively is the manifestation of the brand.So designing a truly effective user experience, a genuinely meaningful experience has to involve designing the proposition itself. UX people are good at that. The process requires us to find the appropriate problems to solve before we leap into solving them.I love If only he’d had a UX consultant on board. We live and breathe this stuff. Finding problems. Validating hypotheses. Not just making stuff right, but making the right stuff.Else you risk designing a beautifully frictionless, delightful experience which doesn’t solve anyone’s problem. Perfectly executing the wrong plan.Remember young grasshopper: If your business model is based on selling shit-flavoured lollipops, the best experience design in the world won’t save you.Curiously, the reverse seems to also be true. While working at the BBC I witnessed several interface iterations on Scott Jenson puts this wonderfully. We’ll put up with quite an astonishing amount of pain, so long as the payoff is greater still. Amazon’s desktop site will never win a design award, but my goodness you can have anything you can think of in your hands tomorrow, and for a decent price! Talk about user experience. Value must be greater than pain. And by value we mean genuine benefit, not just a pretty experience.And yet, that peculiar job role. UX/UI Designer. Make us an interface. Preferably flat design, or material design, or whatever is in vogue this week. Work within the Agile team, under the supervision of the Product Manager.Ah yes, the Product Manager. Back in the days when new media was new, and the web was all framesets and Under Construction GIFs, the person who didn’t do the front-end designing or the back-end coding was the Producer. Part manager, part IA, part client liaison, all nervous breakdown. A different job every place you went, and reminiscent of Product Management today.Product Managers have risen to power in the wake of Lean philosophies and Agile teams, as a kind of linchpin to anchor the product vision amid the iterative course correction. They’ve taken on the big-picture thinking of what a product should be.But wait a minute! Didn’t we just say that UX folk are great at figuring out the right problem to solve? Shouldn’t product vision be kinda our bag?Yet over the last five years as UX struggled to get that corporate buy-in, the Product Manager was a fait accompli, ushered in by the Cult of Lean. Now we’re in a weird place where companies have both a UX Lead and a Product Manager, with the two butting heads figuring out how best to work together. Because at their core, they should both have the same job to do; not just make stuff right, but make the right stuff.This is where a PM sits (you see, product management has its memes too!)This Venn diagram admittedly gives UX toes in Tech and Business, but the suggestion that UX exists as a distinct discipline is worrisome. Creating a meaningful user experience should be the goal of all teams, not something that’s exclusively the domain of a design silo.I’m coming to believe that Product Management and UX leadership are indistinguishable. Right now, PMs may concern themselves more with product-market fit, data science, competitive analysis, loss analysis, and managing business requirements. UX may be more about qualitative study, evaluating prototypes with users, considering not just task completion but satisfaction.But really, isn’t it all just one continuum of product design?A PM I worked with was fond of saying that she did the ‘what’ and I did the ‘how’. God I hated that. The ‘how’ is an interesting exercise in design efficiency, but the ‘what’ is where it’s at.Creating the value, not just easing the pain.(Actually, the ‘why’ is where it’s really at, but I’ll leave that to That idea of the UX/UI designer is often conflated with the slightly-awful term ‘full-stack designer’, referring to a technology stack and meaning that the designer is also doing sort-of front-end development.That’s great. Designers should code; they need to be adept with the materials and grammar of the medium.But maybe it’s time we took another look at the original UX stack?In his book You might say that Agile’s reliance on functional increments over holistic design systems has reduced UX to the execution of an often-haphazard UI; designers trying to keep up with a development process seemingly all about diving in head first.And that’s probably why we now have the UX/UI Designer. But UX can deliver more value than execution. And so be worth more to your company.Salary tells you how much a role is valued within a business. And UX roles are pretty well-paid, but right now in the UK there’s a glass ceiling that kicks in at around five years of experience, especially for freelancers.Perhaps this is how long it takes to be really good at using interface design tools?A popular question I hear at conferences is Ask instead Jared Spool says that design is UX is no more about wireframes or prototypes than accountancy is about spreadsheets. We are business transformation consultants and our one true deliverable is behavioural change.Worlds are colliding. Roles are splintering and recombining. UX is no longer the name of the design silo, but the common goal of an entire organisation.I predict that Product Management and UX design will merge into a common strategic function informed by brand values and company mission, and with iteration focused more on making the right thing, and therefore less on making the thing right.We need to dance together. Lift each other higher. Product Managers: You might think you have all the answers with a combination of Google Analytics and your own hubris, and that’s fine if you can afford to be wrong. But please, stop hiring UX Designers to just implement what you’ve already decided.UX Designers: If you want to make the world a better place, you have to take a strategic hand in defining Make value greater than pain. Build an experience which interfaces the customer and the business for the benefit of both. Interface is a relationship enabler.Design the relationship.Creator of content, builder of brands, architect of experiences. Available for children’s parties.

Or why we need more UX designers in “untouched” fieldsMy wife, a nursing student, was sharing with her teacher about how passionate I am about technology in healthcare. Her teacher responded that she thought we need Jenny, as we will call her because the patients name was never shared, was a little girl who had previously been in the hospital ward for cancer for four years and was discharged. Then a while later she relapsed and had to be given a very strong chemo treatment medicine. This medicine is so strong and so toxic that it requires pre-hydration and post-hydration for three days with I.V. fluid. However, after the medicine was administered, three nurses were attending to the charting software to enter in everything required of them and make the appropriate orders, missed a very critical piece of information. Jenny was supposed to be given 3 days of I.V. hydration. But the three nurses, with over 10 years experience, were too distracted trying to figure out the software they were using, they completely missed it.When the morning nurse came in the next day, she had died of toxicity and dehydration. For two shifts, she had missed her hydration and all because the three, very good nurses, were stuck trying to figure this out…This screenshot I found is similar to the one my wife uses every day. I cant imagine what the UI must have looked like years ago.Here are a few more I found, dates unknown:When most of us design a User Interface, and fail at basic usability, the worst that happens is that our product fails. Yet, when the designers of this system, or even an airplane’s cockpit, fail at their design, there are real physical harms. With so much on the line, you would think these industries would have hired the best designers in the world to carefully craft the User Experience. But they don’t.Being a designer who is very passionate about what I do, this hurt. In all honesty, I dont think Ive ever felt this emotional about any bad design I’ve encountered. I feel angry and sick when I look at that interface above. I start to think about the other stories that have been shared: like an There are some real, very serious UX problems out there for us to tackle. For now I dont know exactly how to change it, but here are some practical steps of things you can do in the mean time if you feel the same:If you are already tackling this problem. Hit me up, Id love to help any way I can. Im Dream. Think. Do. I am a UX Designer with a passion for simplicity and ɹoıʌɐɥǝq ɹǝsn ƃuıʎɟıpoɯ. Follow me The real cost of bad design and how to fix it.

We are surrounded by bad design. You witness it when you’re taking cash out of an ATM. You experience it when getting your boarding pass from the airport kiosk. You feel it when setting the clock on your stove. Simply put, bad design is everywhere—especially inside your vehicle.With so many industries placing more value on design, specifically interface design, why does the automotive industry seem to have it all so wrong?I’ve always had a fascination with cars. As I became more involved in design, my interest in them grew to include the interfaces and information that adorn their consoles and dashboards. In the ’80s and early ’90s, these interfaces were primarily made up of small screens and analogue buttons. Back then, you could swap out your factory stereo for something better. Teenagers primarily did this so they could include better/more amplifiers and better/more speakers—usually to make it loud and full of bass. This would result in the ability to impress friends, annoy parents, and disturb those around you in traffic.The interface on these systems was relatively simple. They relied on hard buttons to control a small feature set (read: the stereo). They would then have an entirely different area of the console that used another set of switches, buttons, and sliders to deal with things like climate control.One of the main reasons these systems have gotten worse is that they no longer just deal with the controls on your stereo—they deal with everything. It’s common for the UI in today’s consoles to include inputs for complex stereos, multi-zone climate control systems, navigation, vehicle information centers, phones, contact lists, and a host of other things. The number of operations has risen from a couple of dozen to a few hundred. For example, the Porsche 918 Spyder’s center console controls more than 800 functions. These interfaces simply aren’t efficiently dealing with the number of requirements they have. This is a big part of why things are the way they are, but still, I think it’s only Beyond the vast number of functions these systems are supporting, there are regulatory and testing requirements, which, I’m sure, need involvement and approval from multiple groups, partners, and organizations that live outside the manufacturer. These factors add more constraints, roadblocks and bureaucracy that need to be taken into account. It wouldn’t surprise me if these checks and balances literally added years to the ‘design’ process. In other words, some of what was designed into your 2015 vehicle started back in 2013.Cost is another important factor. It’s expensive and time consuming to produce these systems. Manufacturers are incentivized to create things that can be adapted and adopted for use across a model range, or in some cases, across multiple brands. They want to keep those costs down Some of what is being produced is inexcusable for any company, regardless of the constraints put in front of them. There is no excuse for a system to use type that’s unreadable. There is no defense for an interface that uses obtuse iconography. You can’t rationalize a palette with poor contrast or bevelled buttons lifted from Windows 95. Bad design is sometimes just bad design—and it’s all too common in automotive interfaces.The clarity, simplicity, and aesthetic of these systems should be more important to manufacturers. They should see it as a major opportunity to bring moments of joy and delight to customers. These are systems that allow us to physically interact with their brand. These should not be ugly exercises of frustration. They should exude the brand with every interaction. When I get in a Ferrari California and I turn on the stereo, or adjust the climate control, it should In December of 2013, I kicked off a Nope.One look at the photo and there’s a half-dozen design choices I would question. Some were just design inconsistencies, like why the fonts on the touchscreen differed from those in the input selector. Perhaps there’s a reason, but I’d guess the people who designed those two things didn’t work together. What about the color of a selected item? Why use green on the touch screen and orange below?Others things seemed like more fundamental flaws in the UX and had to do with the hardware A month later, I stumbled across another image of the Porsche’s interior that illustrated the angle at which this console screen is positioned. I wonder what that actually looks like from the driver’s perspective during daylight.This got me wondering what the UI systems in other ultra-premium cars looked like. It only took a few quick searches to realize that Porsche’s hypercar was far from the only offender—and it was far from the worst. It didn’t matter who the manufacturer was, or how much the vehicles cost—all of the interfaces sucked.Despite the growth and maturity of the design industry, I firmly believe that most automotive interfaces have actually gotten worse in recent years. Much of what I’ve found in my ‘research’ isn’t being designed with the driver (or passengers) in mind. Take the dash of the new Audi TT as an example. What is the purpose of that This execution probably wouldn’t have been feasible three or four years ago—an important point, as I think some designers get caught up in doing stuff because new technology allows them to. They don’t stop and ask why they’re doing it.It’s hard to argue that the touchscreen isn’t a brilliant piece of technology. In just a few short years, it’s changed the way we design and interact with an ever-expanding number of devices. How about in our vehicles? To date, I’d say not so much. Software aside, many systems are using sub-par hardware. There are a lot of systems out there that only support a simple tap. Very few support gestures or multi-touch—important factors when you think about designing a map interface. Then there’s performance. So many of these systems are underpowered and result in slow response times. If putting in proper hardware makes the solution too expensive, then slower hardware isn’t a solution at all.I do see a few glimmers of hope, however. Before I get into that, it’s worth sharing some of what started all this. Here are the highlights from my Twitter rant:With a billion cars on the planet, the in-car experience is a big enough problem space that companies like Apple and Google have decided to get involved. They’ve begun working with manufactures on their own systems that will integrate into vehicles. Other players like QNX, Windows CE and Linux have been present in cars for awhile. They too are working on better in-car experiences, but they have a history of incremental improvements and, at this point, are probably dealing with legacy problems.Apple and Google are new entrants in this space. These are companies that create the great devices we use most, so I’m optimistic that they’ll be able to deliver significant improvement over what exists today. A lot of the functions people It’s shaping up like a battle for the in-car experience between So what’s to make of GM, Honda, and Hyundai? These companies are signed on to both platforms. Though there’s no answer yet, I wouldn’t hold my breath about both systems being supported simultaneously in the same vehicle. A customer may have to choose which option he or she wants at time of new purchase.Google and Apple are attacking this problem in very different ways. With CarPlay, you plug in your iPhone 5 and control the interface with Siri or whatever inputs the car supports, e.g. touchscreens and native interfaces like hard buttons, dials, joysticks, and steering wheel inputs. The video below shows how it works in a new Mercedes Benz.This UI still looks a bit rough on CarPlay. The information seems pretty tight and dense. Then there’s the mystery of the two ‘home’ buttons. Looking at the From what I’ve seen on CarPlay to date, it primarily takes care of navigation, media and communication—everything else will be dealt with from the manufacturer. CarPlay appears to be just one of many views into the car’s system. The screencaps and video below are taken from the 2014 Geneva car show. They reveal some disappointing and curious things about how manufacturers could continue to get things wrong. Take Ferrari’s ‘FF App’ in CarPlay, all it does is launch another screen that duplicates all of CarPlay’s native functions like phone, media and navigation.Google’s approach is a bit more of a mystery, but they appear to be taking a different approach than Apple. There’s certainly some hope on the horizon with Apple and Google, though just how good these systems will be remains to be seen. One thing is clear, though: the current state of all in-car experiences is incredibly bad. For those manufacturers looking to go it alone, I don’t expect much.This article can also be found on the Product Design Director, Facebook. Co-founded Teehan+Lax in 2002. Past work: Medium, Readability, Yahoo, Prismatic, Flipboard, YouTube, Kifi, Obvious, iOS PSDs.A collection of our best stuff from teehanlax.com

The UX Torturer is a new and emerging role in the field of UX. Whereas the typical UX Designer is a one-trick pony who can only improve the user experience, the UX Torturer specializes in degrading the user experience to maximize profit. The reasons for doing so are simple:So that all sounds great in theory. Let’s take a look at some real world examples.Slate is an online news magazine, primarily ad-supported. Their site was a fairly standard layout with the article on the left, comments section below it, with a sidebar of ads.Recently, though, they changed the way comments are displayed. Now the user must click a button to show comments, which appear in a modal overlay, like so:This overlay has a number of delicious usability problems. First of all, it only actually appears when it feels like it. Then, you have to choose where to rest your mouse cursor. If it’s on the overlay, it’s in the way of the comments you are trying to read. If it’s off the overlay, using your mouse wheel pointlessly scrolls the underlying page and not the comments. All in all, the new comments format was universally reviled.Having effectively tortured their free user base, Slate rolled out their paid “Slate Plus” offering. Here is an excerpt from their pitch page describing what you get:Sweet relief, if you will only but open your wallet! Excellent work by Slate’s UX Torturers.Amazon recently acquired ComiXology, a digital comic store, despite the fact Amazon already sells digital comics on amazon.com for lower prices. What could their strategy be?The ComiXology app has the experience you’d expect from a comic reader:Overall, the UX was perfectly fine.Reading a comic from amazon.com on the Kindle app, on the other hand, is pure torture:The image does not fill the screen, the app doesnt support landscape orientation, and you can’t pinch to zoom. (It does, however, support a more limited zoom, so the comic was technically readable.)I asked a comic fan about it, and he had this to say:Amazon’s UX Torturers were so effective that not only did he pay Free-to-play gaming is the major leagues for UX Torturers. Many of these games introduce artificial wait times for tasks to complete, and then sell players power-ups to remove those artificial wait times.The above screenshot comes from Dungeon Keeper, a game with such excruciating wait times that British authorities recently declared it was misleading to even call it “free-to-play.” Regulatory interference aside, many of these titles have gone on to make enormous profits through the exquisite pain they inflict. No wonder that this industry employs many of the world’s leading UX Torturers.By now, you are wondering “How can I, too, torture my users for fun and profit?” The key is to inflict just the right amount of pain. You can visualize this on the “Shuffleboard of Pain” diagram below:The puck (marked “P”) represents the level of pain you are inflicting. The goal is to get it into the green zone representing just the right amount of pain to monetize your users. If you fall short and remain in the yellow zone, you have not achieved your goal but you can at least try again. However, if you push too far and fall off into the red area, you will lose users permanently.The diagram also demonstrates how our predecessors, medieval torturers, faced the sames issues and how their outcomes map to ours. Just like for medieval torturers, experimentation is critical. What works in one scenario may not work in another. You may find your users can be quite resistant.However, do not get discouraged. Remember, you are the modern incarnation of a long and storied tradition. You are no mere UX Designer, faffing about with no measurable ROI. You are here to extract value from your victims. You are a professional. You are a UX Torturer!

If you are a web developer or designer you know what However, there is a drawback which is overlooked. Sometimes, you urge user to move the mouse on a specific element to go the actual target. Consider the following example,As you see on gmail, you need to hover the plus icon to reach emoticons button. To make default to full screen, you are required to click the caret icon on the right bottom corner and then head to the actual link you want. Here is another example from These sort of examples can be found any kind of website. To be honest, we are doing wrong; this is against to Now, let’s reconsider nytimes example with a different approach,As you see above, when cursor is moving towards to menu button, we can write an algorithm that can understand where you are going to click before you reach there and toggles the menu in the half way. Therefore, it would be a logical approach to solve Principal of Least Effort issue. Not only user will have an open the menu when he goes halfway, but also, he will get rid of time loss on click or hover actions. In other words, he will gain both time and path.This is how I decided to create a dedicated query plugin, Here you can see a demo on a drop-down which opens before mouse cursor reaches. And underlying method is like the following. There is a virtual element which I call anticipator and it moves as the mouse moves. If mouse moves faster, so user is aiming further and that’s why anticipator gets bigger and goes further.Plugin can be used in a variety of elements like menus, drop-downs, popups and can be used to show/hide sticky headers which is provided in examples page. If you want to see more examples, reports bugs and give feedback, see I also thank the creator of Note: plugin still in beta stage so don’t use it on your production versions. It’s implemented in a couple of hacky hours so there are many bugs on both algorithm and performance.Thanks to 

The difference between UX and UI has come to the general public (read internet geeks) attention a while back when internet made a jump to the 2.0 era, and when the way a website looked started to matter. Only things were not as simple as they seemed. They still aren’t. As the confusion between UX and UI is still happily perpetuated by…. vanity maybe?Not only the looks of a website became important, but in a world where increasingly almost nothing is simpler than putting some sort of web page online, there has to be done even more than just making a website look good, namely stand out of the crowd, win over potential users and customers’ hearts. So website creators thought offering an experience would do that.The term For some mysterious reason once the UX designer title emerged, you could rarely see companies looking to hire just UI designers. All of a sudden you needed to be a UI/UX designer. Only guess what, you don’t become someone you were not, without being previously trained by formal or informal education, work experience, trial and error, you name it.I believe this confusing move set the stage for some sort of unexpressed contempt for UI designers inside teams. And here’s where vanity emerged. Since nobody wanted to be despised (the need for social acceptance is in our DNA), UI designers had to automatically define themselves as UX masters, too, so that they don’t fall into disgrace. I witnessed in some of the environments in which I’ve worked, this kind of unexpressed contempt, for some reason I am not aware of, as I find the artful, creative endeavors of such as UIs or graphic designers, or illustrators to be some of the most fulfilling activities on earth (I like drawing illustrations So, just to set things straight — if you’re looking to make your customers buy your product or use your service, in the today environment, you’ll need both a UX and a UI. But UX does not equal UI.In order to debunk the UX myth, I’m inviting you to look for the roots of what the duties of a UX designer are, in the It’s possible that Pine and Gilmore explained it in a way that was close enough for today creators to grasp it and start applying its principles in their businesses, but it was a concept tackled practically and theoretically before, too. You can check its history on So what is it about this article that makes it clear and comprehensible what a UX designer should do?Let’s start with the metaphor the authors use in order to explain the history of economic progress:For the more visual of you, here’s a diagram depicting these 4 stages.Further, Pine and Gilmore argue that staging an experience is not just some element one add in order to be better than a competitor, it is the business itself.It doesn’t mean though that you need to give up on the services you were providing as a company or on the goods you were producing. Rather,Bellow is a quote I have extracted from the article that makes it clear how UI is a part of the UX. In addition, there are marketing, distribution, operational functions that a UX designer needs to figure out:All the points above lead me to the conclusion that a User/Customer Experience designer is actually the designer of the business itself. The UX designer is ultimately a strategist that tailors a well documented plan to build a solution, and whose way of thinking is deeply rooted in the Design Thinking process the way it was defined and popularized by IDEO.This doesn’t make automatically a UI designer unable to also be a UX one, but let’s stop assuming that someone trained for one type of job has to be automatically able to do a quite different one, too, only because the titles of these two jobs have so many letters in common.This distinction, though, doesn’t exonerate the UI designer from the responsibility of being empathic and deeply understanding the needs of the customers he’s building the interface for. But then again, this same responsibility of being customer centered while doing their job is the duty of every member of a team. And Zappos is one company that demonstrates how fruitful such an approach can be.I feel obliged to mention that even though all the argumentation in the HBR article introducing the Customer Experience concept is mostly based on offline businesses, the exact same principles, adapted, apply to the online ones, especially now when more extensively your business is not exclusively residing in the virtual world. For now at least, your customers don’t live in the cloud and they take the memorable moments out of interacting with your offering to the real world, which means that the experience you have staged doesn’t end the moment your customer is leaving your software. Plus, It’s impossible to enter here into all the details of the process of designing a memorable experience, as it is a complex one by itself, relying on several other disciplines, but you get the point. UX designers are actually business designers that conceive an entire business in a whole new way, a way that is suitable for the times we’re living and the demands of customers we’re addressing. But they don’t do it by themselves. They do it together with great UI designers, copywriters, developers, marketers, operators, PMs, etc.I will provide, nonetheless, a non-exhaustive list of what a UX designer should understand, do or oversee. In putting together this list I’ve found inspiration in - Field/immersive Research- Face to face interviewing (primary research)- Creating Personas and User Stories- Product Design- Interaction Design- Information Architecture- Make sure the product/company delivers what it promissed it would deliver (get involved in the branding process up to the point of overseeing it)- Terminology and metaphors creation- Content Strategy (it’s different from copywriting)- Copywriting- Usability (the ease of use and learnability of a human-made object)- Put in place processes inside the company that would support the customer experience- Evangelize the customer centric approach inside the company- Coordinate brainstorms- Work tightly with programmers, UI designers, copywriters, marketers, Customer Support- Make customer behavior analysis (which can imply some social sciences like anthropology, psychology, sociology)- Create wireframes- Make Experience Maps- Follow and optimize KPIs- And finally glue together a coherent picture of all the pieces at stakeDear business creators, for the sake of your own business, go against the stream and hire separate people to do your UX and your UI.Business designer. Design Thinking practitioner. Previously in the tech seed investment business. Tango dancer. Experimentalist. World citizen. 

About a year ago I joined a small startup as a Sr. UX/UI Designer and after a few short months I found myself in front of my boss who was asking if I wanted the role of Product Director. To be honest, at first I said no.While our start-up was small, the role was not. It required managing all aspects of the product: Direction, bug documentation and management of 7 engineers (5 on-site, 2 remote). I had some experience in management but nothing that would have prepared me for this. I never managed and planned work for a large and highly technical team. And If that wasnt enough, I would be inheriting a product that was going in the wrong direction, had a messy code base, a bad User Experience, and more bugs than an Amazon rainforest. Taking all this into account, I decided to decline so that I could focus on fixing the lacking User Experience.We tried having someone else in charge for a short while and I soon realized that I had taken the coward’s way out. If I truly wanted to fix the User Experience, I would have to fix everything. Trying to make an interaction easier to use is useless if the page load takes too long and the information is incorrect. You can have beautiful charts that graph the data in just the right ways, but if the user doesnt care about that data or that feature, then there is no UX.So I met with my boss again and jumped in. I wish I could have said yes the first time and charged in fearlessly to grow and be challenged but that wouldnt be honest. If I told you the lie I told myself, that I just wasnt interested in leading, and that I wasnt qualified anyway, that wouldnt be honest either. The truth is that it took some courage and Im glad I had a second opportunity.So I did it. When I say I did it, I mean that I barely got by and wasted a lot of time trying to do everything. I quickly learned that I had no idea how to manage other people’s time effectively, and that I didnt really understand agile development. I noticed that when you are a bad leader you have a tendency to try and hide it by pushing everyone into “your way”.So instead, I laid down my pride and asked for help. I talked to our lead engineer, I talked to the CEO of the contracting firm, I read a lot, and made sure to not say “Ya I got it” unless I really did understand. Many times that was embarrassing but I learned those embarrassing times got farther apart, and things started to run more smoothly.Once I got the basic process out of the way, the smaller ones started to pile up. I went from doing design 100% of the time to 0%. My entire days were taken up with meetings, planning, checking up, double checking, maintaining documents, etc. I spent my whole day managing my team but there was no time to manage the product. I knew something had to change but when you are scrambling to keep your head above water it’s hard to make changes to process.I soon found myself moving the other direction, with more work than I could do in an 8 hour day. So I hit the brakes and started to solve our process. I cut meetings down. I delegated tasks. I found technologies and plugged them in. I got strict and reminded people to stay within our process. It wasnt easy but soon I saw the fruits of my labor. I finally had time to breathe and I learned that with free time to think comes even better processes.I took that learning and applied it to my team. They had been overloaded for months, so I put my foot down with my boss and slowed the whole operation down. Thinking back, this was the single most important call I have made for our company and the most beneficial. Because if you are speeding along in the wrong direction, it only means youre getting farther a lot quicker. We were building useless features, we were building them poorly, and our team was wearing out. The number of bugs being found was taking up more and more time, trending up towards infinity. Hitting the brakes and refocusing on what needed done was exactly what we needed.We worked on bugs for months. It was tough. I had the buy in of my boss but it was still difficult for him to see no progress. I had to balance fixing our foundation with adding features our startup needed to survive to get funding. It paid off, the app started to become a lot more usable so more people starting using it, and our numbers went up.We were making some real progress but for a team of our size it kept feeling like we were moving slowly. I attributed this to my lack of experience, surely there must be more hidden areas that I have yet to learn about. This next lesson was the hardest to learn and it still stings a bit. Our output was lower than we liked, and even with the slower pace, the quality was still rather low. My team seemed distant and had little passion for what we were doing. They didnt seem to care. If the site went down, they were slow to respond. During discussions they had few inputs and suggestions. I attributed this to the fact that they had been burnt out and I worked hard to get them back on board. I woke up at 6:30am every morning so I could video chat with our team over seas at 7. Some nights I stayed up until 12 so we could review things. I would know all the latest news in their home country and discuss it with them. I made sure to show them that I valued their work and give them praise for their accomplishments. I knew my team, I knew about their lives outside of work, about their families they cared for, and I believed I had their friendship.I continued to try and connect with my team and get them engaged. The overseas team seemed to do a lot better but the U.S. team still seemed distant and detached. To make a long story short, we learned that they were doing other projects during work hours with each other. So, we transitioned to a new team and then let them go. It was the hardest thing I faced. Not just that I had poured so much effort into this team, into our working relationship, but that I had trusted them as friends. We went from a team of 7, down to 3.The new team we contracted with handled the transition well and it allowed me to take those same learning and strategy and start fresh. We planned out our processes, used new tools, and they taught me even more I didn’t know through their own experiences. This fresh start allowed us to move in the right direction and even though we were moving slower and with less people, we never moved backwards through bugs, bloated features, and bad code. So even with the reduced paced it felt like we were making more progress than before. We werent creating more bugs, we cut page load times in half, we added well thought out features, and we became friends. The team is now invested and engaged and it shows. The product is stable and moving in the right direction because they take part in every part of the product life cycle. This engagement and structure has give me even more free time, time to think about the products future and get back to designing.So now here I am more than a year into this position and suddenly it feels second nature. I am confident about the direction were headed and the team at my side. I guess learning by fire is a good way to learn. I cant wait to learn more about leadership and to grow professionally and as a person. I am looking forward to more of the challenges I will face.If you enjoyed this article, please feel free to Dream. Think. Do. I am a UX Designer with a passion for simplicity and ɹoıʌɐɥǝq ɹǝsn ƃuıʎɟıpoɯ. Follow me 

Part One in a series of posts on how to recruit UX talentUser experience design is a multidisciplinary field. A well-designed product must be visually appealing and simple, and easy to understand, learn, and use. Creating a well-designed product is an endeavor that requires technical skills — an understanding of computer science, human computer interaction, and visual perception and cognition — and tremendous creativity. User experience requires analytical thinking directed toward a great user experience, and that user experience has to be grounded in a deep understanding of what people need, how they think, and why they behave the way they do.The first draft or sketch is rarely the “right” or “best” design. Creating a well-designed product requires exploring a range of solutions, identifying promising directions, and then refining those directions through iterative cycles of design, prototype, and test. To that end, there are many different skills required to design well. Here is a guide to the different skills needed to support a robust design process, and the job titles that correspond to those skills.You can’t design effectively for people unless you understand them: how they behave, how they think, what motivates them. Cognitive psychologists and anthropologists often have the best training for a variety of research methods for studying people, including ethnographic field studies, survey design, and usability tests. Note that usability studies and field studies are not the same as focus groups, which are often designed and facilitated by marketing professionals. In contrast to focus groups, which are often used to gauge market interest and involve explicitly asking people for their reactions, user research is about observing human behavior. What people say they will do and what they end up actually doing are not always the same. Insights from user research help us understand why people act the way they do, and when complemented with data analytics, can tell a more complete story about user behavior.Generally, there are two types of qualitative user research: After an initial design or several design explorations are created, summative user research helps the team gather feedback from users to see how easy the product is to use, how well they understand the offering, and whether it not only meets their needs but also delights them. The feedback gathered from this phase of research helps the team go back and iterate on the design.Good researchers understand what methods to apply to help get insights into different kinds of questions. They know how to use qualitative data to help explain the “why” behind “what” we observe through quantitative data like logs analysis. They understand what the strategic objectives of the team are and design a research program to help the team meet those objectives. They use sound judgment when drawing conclusions about users, even though the sample size is usually small. They can identify outliers and help provide context to the team to better understand overall needs and behaviors. They are capable of facilitating brainstorming sessions with the team and use insights about users to inspire technically feasible solutions.Where startups have invested in hiring a user researcher to join the team, the researcher usually becomes an incredibly valuable member of the team, helping to drive design decisions, feature priorities, and overall product vision. User researchers can help the entire team feel empathy for the customer or end-user.People who contribute to design in this capacity often have a graduate degree in cognitive psychology, anthropology, or human-computer interaction. Common job titles include User Researcher, Usability Analyst, Usability Engineer, or User Experience Researcher.Design is not just about how a product looks but also how it works. A well designed product or service considers all the touchpoints a user has with the offering, from acquisition and conversion, to moving people through the experience, and making people feel good about the interaction. At the highest level, this type of design is the manifestation of the company’s core values, mission, and principles, in the form of the actual product or service offering. People who solve problems at this level may be referred to as Product Designer. Product designers help define what product is being built, and equally important, what is not being built. Tactically, deliverables may include wireframes, prototypes, functional specifications, and flowcharts; people who focus at this level often have Interaction Designer as the job title.Good product and interaction designers know how to engage in a design process that leads to good outcomes. They are good communicators; they are knowledgeable about user interface standards and conventions, and are capable of envisioning the dynamic nature of the product and the functional flow. They know when and how to use user research. They know how to adopt the right mindset at the right stage of the design and development process: divergent thinking during brainstorming and ideation phase, and convergent thinking when it’s time to iterate and launch. They are deep thinkers: they understand interdependencies, requirements, and constraints, and take a step back, see the big picture, and clarify how everything fits together. They have high emotional intelligence: they know how to work with engineers and marketing stakeholders and how to receive feedback well. Product and service design are inevitably the outcome of a large team effort and a reflection of the company’s culture, values, and principles; a good designer knows how to guide a company and/or team through a journey of defining or understanding the vision, values, and principles, articulating that, and making it tangible.Educational backgrounds may vary tremendously, and may include but are not limited to computer science, human-computer interaction, human factors, and library science and information architecture. UX is a very multidisciplinary field and relatively new, so don’t rule out people who come from adjacent fields like industrial design and architecture; spatial design is very complementary to interaction and product design.Creating an overall aesthetic for the product or service offering is driven by someone with a visual design background. They own the color palette, grid, typography, layout, icon style, and visual and branding assets in the user interface; they create the visual expression of the brand as the company wants to see themselves.Good visual designers can be trusted to be the final arbiter of good taste. They understand how people see and process information and use that understanding to create designs that are easy to comprehend and are comfortable to “live” in. They understand that visual adornment is meant to support the experience, and not Many people trained in graphic design often apply for visual designer roles. When screening candidates for such a role, the designer must understand what it means to design for interactive use. It is not enough to hire someone for a visual designer role whose experience is limited to creating print design, brand identities, icons, banner ads, or posters because an interactive product is not a set of static screens. Your visual designer must be capable of envisioning the dynamic, user-driven nature of the product.The process of design requires prototyping in order to have something to test and iterate. People with strong front end development skills bring design ideas to life for interactive products, while preserving the integrity of the design by paying close attention to design details during implementation. Such people may come from job titles that include Web Developer, Front End Developer, or Prototyper, but they are all different in nuanced ways.People with any of these three job titles may be equipped with the skills to build prototypes of designs and implement the front end. People who make strong prototypers or consider themselves prototypers are often used to writing throwaway code, and have developed strategies for quickly bringing an idea to life. They are optimizing for development speed and iteration. Web developers and front end developers are more focused on writing production code that is durable, cross-platform and cross-browser compatible, with graceful degradation or responsive to various screen sizes and devices. Good front end developers sweat over getting the implementation details of the front end just right, inasmuch as good designers sweat over getting the details of the interaction and visual design just right.Many prototypers and web developers are self-taught. They may have strong design sensibilities and straddle the role of designer and front end engineer. Front end engineers may also be self taught, and more often have degrees in computer science.The decision to hire specialists is often a practical one to help grow a team and get the right skills in the company. Instead of hiring jack of all trades people, look for “T-shaped” people: people who specialize in a particular skillset described above, with interests and work that are broad and span other UX disciplines. For example, look for a strong visual designer who understands interaction design principles and is willing to grow and learn in that area. Or hire an interaction designer who can also code and build prototypes or is willing to run user studies. Perhaps your interaction designer or visual designer can serve as a less rigorous prototyper, using tools such as InVision, Axure, or Keynote. For some products, that type of throwaway prototyping may be sufficient to move design along productively. You may have the opportunity to find a front end engineer who is passionate about design and learns everything he/she can about design — this is the only path toward being a “unicorn” I’ve ever seen that works but it is Consider expanding the range of specialty UX skills at your disposal by hiring freelancers, contractors, or consultants. For example, maybe you don’t need a full time researcher but you have access to an outstanding researcher that you can hire on a contract basis. Or maybe you can hire a visual designer on a freelance basis who can create the look and feel of the site, deliver a style guide, and work with your front end engineering team to build the visual assets (e.g. grid, typography, color palette, icons, button styles, etc) into a front end library that then makes it easy for developers to create UI that is consistent.While it’s tempting to hold out for a jack-of-all-trades designer who can “do it all”, usually the people who most fit this profile are too early in their careers to have any wealth of experience in any specialty. Rather than hiring a junior person to do it all, consider hiring a consulting firm or studio to collaborate with you on product definition and design. Excellent firms will have senior people who will be able to quickly assess what needs to be done and help develop a direction and foundation for the product during its most formative stages. With a solid product foundation, a junior hire can then build off the foundation as new features are added.If the interaction model is simple, and you need your product to be more delightful than your competitors, focus on visual design. A visual designer paired with a user researcher can sometimes help fill in the gaps created by not having an interaction designer.If your product is functionally complex and has many features but needs to feel simple, then focus on hiring an interaction designer. An interaction designer will methodically understand user needs, define tasks and goals, and structure the experience of the product to support complex tasks and flows for frequent use.Operating partner at Khosla Ventures; former head of design at Google, Yahoo, Udacity. Yoga + meditation teacher, Montessori mom, dessert maker.

Jared is a snap-and-go kind of photographer.Jared has 4 important needs in how he handles photos.I’ve got to help Jared! His needs are a common denominator among Breaking the epic into smaller needs allows me to narrow the scope of this iteration. A narrower scope means I can closely validate each subsequent step of my design process to a shorter and more specific checklist of needs.(Alternatively, accounting for long lists of needs has dangerously led to a compromised solution/feature creep/downward spiral of overdeveloped features that people Let’s break down Jared’s needs.The most important story to Jared is keeping track of his photos in one place, and easily sharing those photos to his friends.I’ll be resolving this story, one step at a time.To narrow the scope of this iteration, I focused within the pink epic, then focused on the two needs that didn’t have an existing fix. These two needs became the scope of the project, and they were broad enough to be broken down further:The smallest needs I’m utilizing this process Sample job story:Building against the checklist ensures I solve for the scope. Nothing more, nothing less.We’ll call this feature “The task flow of Import Settings should resolve Jared’s most important story (the following is a very specific version of it):Jared wants to add photos from his Facebook to his Dropbox. He wants to know that his future Facebook photos will continue to be transferred and kept safe.This bird’s-eye view of a task flow helps me in two ways:Task flows give me the chance Looking at task flow version 1, I had a realization. The flow does a couple of things. After the prerequisite connection and authentication sections, Jared must walk through 3 sections:[I had One of these does not belong!:I didn’t catch this until I made a couple of screens:The MVP iteration While the interaction of viewing/selecting photos seems a reasonable Let’s simplify the task flow to only address the needs of the scope:From here, I’ll design a prototype while considering design patterns and heuristics.Where we are in the series on Previously:Next:*I don’t work for or represent Dropbox. I’m a curious Visual Designer shipping UX projects at 2 design programs until the end of March. I study under Laura Klein  Kate Rutter @Tradecraft and Megan O’Rorke @GA_SF. Send me design challenges come April ☺UX + Visual: Best practices, lessons learned, and stories from designers at leading tech companies

There’s still many common misconceptions about what user experience design (UX, UXD) is amidst many of the companies that need and want to invest in it.Highlighting the impact of good design, what we’ve seen over the past ten years is that design driven businesses have outperformed America’s Standard  Poor’s 500 large publicly traded companies — Characteristics of design driven businesses are the embedding of design leadership at the highest organisational levels, and a top-down commitment to using design as a catalyst for innovation. However, the “design” in “design driven” isn’t what most people think about when the term is mentioned.Not to be confused with UI specifically, UX design isn’t merely about an interface or pretty pictures, rather the bigger picture. Paraphrasing Steve Jobs; design isn’t just how it looks, it’s how it works.To that point, user experience is indeed design, but it’s the definition of solutions far beyond visual and interface design. Making informed and intelligent design decisions means the inclusion of user research and usability testing, as well as an understanding of behavioural psychology and human-computer interaction (HCI) principles.Usability and the testing that goes along with it are definitely key in what make up a successful UX solution. Yet being usable is only one of many qualities of a good interface — visual, voice, or otherwise — not the user experience in its entirety.Beyond being simple to learn and creating efficiencies in task completion, good UX design requires pragmatic creativity, an understanding of colour theory, and interaction design capable of eliciting positive emotional responses. Being ‘usable’ alone doesn’t make an interface desirable, delightful or useful, of particular distinction.As ambitious and often tech savvy professionals, our understanding of technology and how we use it differs greatly from a typical end user of any given product. Therefore our personal expectations and anecdotal experiences are largely meaningless. Common sense is not common, and UX decisions should rely on building consensus.Good design requires a deep understanding of your target demographic, only attained through quality data, being a result of unbiased research and testing.Designing for yourself is an easy trap to fall into. Even when wielding taste and best practice acknowledgement, doing so is a sure fire way to get it wrong for your target demographic.UX is the consideration of the many aspects of a user’s interactions with a product or service. It’s concern for the relationship between those interactions, which ultimately define a user’s perception of a brand as a whole.More than just a new word for common sense, interface design, or usability, UX is the combination of disciplines and practices mentioned above. Let alone those surrounding information architecture, motion design and product strategy, to name just a few.As for the UX title itself, above all else a good practitioner is able to acutely empathise with the audience they’re designing for.Truth be told, my observed reality across many organisations over the past decade is that UX is described and utilised very differently, based on the people and process involved. My personal precept for every project has long been that good UX is the result of understanding the customer, seizing technological opportunity, and pursuing simplicity.Director, Innovation and UX at 

Of course I can. And I can do it using the Presto Hot Dogger. Obviously.When I was a kid, my brothers and I talked my mom into buying us a hot dog cooking machine. Don’t laugh. This was the 70s, when instant coffee was considered a miracle. The way the Hot Dogger worked was simple. There was a tray with two rows of spikes on either side that slid into a heating element. You impaled the hot dog into the corresponding spike on each side, completing the electrical circuit, and this “cooked” the hot dog. Cooking is a strong word here, as the hot dogs were actually being electrocuted. (Hot dogs contain an insane amount of metal, by the way.) We were thrilled to make our hot dogs this way.So, what I just described — the spikes, the heating element, the electrocuting — that’s the user interface. Or UI, for short. And I’m sure that the good folks at Presto tested that user interface many times over until they had it just right. I’m sure they tested the proper width of the tray to fit the majority of hot dogs and wieners being made in the USA at the time. I’m sure they tested the force needed to close the tray, maybe even with a robot arm! They probably even tested the visibility of the smoky transparent plastic that allowed you to see your hot dogs being electrocuted, and how much of it you’d Now here’s the thing. When you give three boys an appliance that electrocutes meat in an era before their boredom could be diffused with video games and cable, it immediately becomes the most interesting thing in the house. And they start wanting to have Here’s an incomplete list of items we tried:We were having I’m sure the good people at Presto perfected the user interface (UI) with the intent that people interacting with their Hot Dogger™ would have a good user experience (UX). But I’m not sure they foresaw three bored miscreants in their testing. Maybe they should have.We design interfaces for people to use. Those people have experiences with them. And with enough experience of your own, you’ll begin to figure out how to tailor those interfaces so they evoke the kind of experiences you are hoping your users have. (Pro tip: test your assumptions often, and watch people actually attempt to use your interfaces.) But never forget that the experience itself doesn’t happen until three bored miscreants show up with things vaguely shaped like wieners.So, is there such a thing as a UX designer? Absolutely. Take the Disney Imagineers as the most obvious example. Every single interaction that you have in one of their parks is designed to maximize the chance that you’ll have a great time. They’re not just designing rides, they’re designing the entire story of your visit. From the moment you become aware Disneyland is a place, to the moment you drive away, already thinking of when you can go back. The entire experience is designed to evoke a particular set of emotions. That’s what designing a user’s experience is like. Taking everything from initial point of contact to final interaction into account. And then testing and improving it constantly.Or, I can just put it If you’re sitting at your desk designing things based on a styleguide and a pattern library while looking at some wireframes and flow diagrams that someone handed you, you’re doing UI.If you’re going out and meeting the people using your product or service, listening to how they use it, making decisions based on that knowledge, testing and improving, and taking into consideration things that happen before and after they interact with your product or service, you’re doing UX.English is my second language. You were my first.Advice on design from people who work for a living.

If you’ve ever been a user experience designer, you’ve probably heard people say something like this when starting a new project:All of these statements are absolutely useless. Why? Because none of them help you decide what to work on or how to improve a product.So, the next time somebody introduces a UX project by asking for a specific deliverable or by giving vague instructions to “make it better,” you need to change the conversation.You can do that by asking the following questions:The most important thing about these questions is that they help you define three things that are 1. The problem you are trying to solve2. The reason you are trying to solve it3. The way you will know if you’ve succeededDesign without these elements isn’t really user experience design. It’s just drawing pictures. Design is about solving real problems, both for users and for the business. In fact, at its best, design is about solving problems for the business (for example, generating revenue or improving retention) By knowing the answer to these questions, you are far more likely to build a product that users want to use and that improves key metrics for your company.Answering these questions can be incredibly helpful for individual designers. When we ask these questions, we reframe the project to give the designer far more freedom to Instead of being told “change the onboarding flow” or “create a tutorial walkthrough,” we get asked to “improve the 10 day activation metric for new users.”As designers, we get to create our own hypotheses about how we will improve that metric rather than simply implementing someone else’s vision.More importantly, we can understand when our designs were successful, because we have a specific metric against which we can measure our results. This kind of direct feedback can make us better designers.These questions can be incredibly useful for defining the scope of a project, which has a very real impact on engineering. For example, poorly defined projects are particularly susceptible to scope creep.After all, if you don’t have a very solid idea of the problem you’re trying to solve or the metric you’re trying to move, it’s very easy to justify adding “just one more thing.” But when you have a clearly defined problem, it’s easy to push back on new feature requests that don’t contribute directly to solving that problem.The first few times you try to change the conversation, you may get push back. You’ll get clients or product managers or engineers who simply can’t answer these questions. Keep asking them.If people can’t answer the questions, you need to help them get the answers before you start work on the project. Otherwise, you’re shortchanging your users, your company, your team, and yourself.Like the post? Please recommend it!Also, there are lots more at Principal at Users Know  Author of UX for Lean Startups.
I blog about UX, Research, Product Management, and Lean Startup.

The term might have been buzzed into oblivion, but that doesn’t reduce the importance of the idea: every product tells a story. A good app is, in a sense, a choose-your-own-adventure tale: through a series of choices, the user brings to life a story that reflects their particular way of moving through the product. When we design products, it’s our responsibility to set up a framework that guides them through that story.Design, in other words, is narrative. Yet the actual writing that a person sees when using an app is rarely the result of careful consideration. For all the lip service paid to storytelling in the tech industry, we pay little or no attention to the language that goes into product design. So what happens when we finally realize that reinventing ourselves as storytellers necessitates bringing writers into the design process?I work on the product design team at The words that make apps work don’t have an illustrious history or, really, any history at all. Typically, user experience is driven by visuals and navigation features— we figure out how the product should flow and what things should look like. Early on in a product’s life, designers and engineers often do the writing. Later, as an organization grows, product managers sometimes take on this task. When no one truly owns the words that make the app work — when front-end engineers and designers and developers and product managers are all inserting language in their own particular style — that product’s voice becomes scattered and its narrative structure fragmented.Users, shockingly, give us the benefit of the doubt anyway. They attempt to create a coherent story out of loosely translated technical jargon or repurposed marketing copy or unhelpful error messages. And that’s where I come in.I got my first gig in content strategy and UX writing when I met a CEO who suspected that his tiny company had big word problems. He had a vague notion that his product’s words should be as carefully executed as the code he was writing everyday. “It’s not much,” I recall him saying early on of the text on his site, “just a few sentences here and there.” But my audit revealed thousands of words, hidden in nooks and crannies and popovers.He’s not alone. Most products and websites have ten times as much copy as their creators believe, largely because writing concisely is far more difficult than writing verbosely. In an age of TL;DR and minimalist design, we might be tempted to discount the impact of language in our products, but words matter even more — as any poet will tell you — when you’re using fewer of them.Narrative UX is the notion that, contrary to much of what shows up in the app world, style and point of view don’t have to mean extraneous pep or fallback irony. Instead, it asks, Who is your product? What values do you want to communicate through language and style? If your product is a character, how does it speak and — importantly — how Successful products — see Users might not detect the sweat and coffee that goes into creating such a point of view, but they will always detect when a product presents a coherent narrative. MailChimp famously In the instructions for reproducing their mascot, Freddie, MailChimp advises against altering the image, requesting, “Please don’t dress Freddie up (e.g. hats, sweat bands, earrings).” We should, however, “feel free to use winking Freddie for extra personality.” The voice is direct and clear, friendly and non-intimidating, with a levity that occasionally veers into humor. This bit of meta storytelling pulls back the curtain on a product that itself aspires to increase the transparency of email campaigns. MailChimp talks their talk, so to speak.This integrity of voice and style are key to good narrative UX, but formulating them is a rigorous process — an easygoing tone is by no means easy to achieve. And that’s the point that we so frequently miss when we rhapsodize about storytelling in product design and give ourselves awesome job titles. Writing for products, like most kinds of writing, is ninety percent drafting and revising and throwing things out. After all of that effort, the resulting narrative should be so organic that the user almost doesn’t notice the language that crafts it. The first thing you write will be a chaotic mess, but the words that ship must be chiseled and consistent.The work that happens in between — finding a voice, creating a style guide, debating the Oxford comma, implementing standards for every word that goes into the product, and then applying it all on a ruthless schedule of releases and launches — is the domain of a professional wordsmith.This work is a long-term investment. Like architecting wireframes and composing color palettes, designing a narrative experience requires actual training in the medium. A good narrative UX lead not only designs an elegant story but also develops a system for teaching other members of an organization to speak fluently in the product’s voice.When they’re good, the words that make apps work are a holistic part of the product, not a decorative swirl on top. If we’re going to claim to tell stories with our products, it’s time to wake up and pay sustained, deliberate attention to the language that guides users through them.I design all the words. Narrative UX at A field guide to the designed world

Aaah, the User Experience (UX) designer. So hot right now.Behind the trendy vocabulary, there is a a big misunderstanding between what the market have come to name a UX designer, and what user experience design really is. More often that not, the description for a UX designer job is indeed a User Interface (UI) designer position. It has been widely discussed in articles like While the debate between generalists vs. specialists goes on, a UI designer is at a crossroad between the two — and like in most cases, the answer to which one is better is : it depends. While a specialist is characterised by his unique type of deliverable, a generalist is able to deliver multiple types of outputs, though maybe with not as much depth as the specialist.In this aspect, a UI designer is specialised in screen applications. His output is either a visual composition or a dynamic mockup (for exemple, in HTML). This is his speciality, his strength. No one is better than him at this.Workflow and tools are evolving in order to relieve some of the pain : design in the browser, new software like Macaw. And yet, even more dynamic mockups aren’t the answer.The UI designer should be aware of his environment. He works as closely to the technical team as to the product team. This gives him insights on the users and technical flows, the scope and constraints of the project.The UI designer is both a specialist in Interface design, and a generalist of User Experience (see So is accessibility, for that matter. Accessibility experts, usability experts, psychologists, sociologists, to name a few, can all be value to a project. Each can bring insights unexpected by people without their expertise.Researchers are more often than not very happy to share their findings with people who show interest in their work. Their distinct point of vue has been forged by years of studying a specific phenomenon. They have a lot to bring to the table. The UI designer is not these people. He can learn from their findings, and even sometimes, work with them. But ultimately, he will not go deep enough to understand the root reasons, and will stop at big generals ideas and trends. And that’s fine.A compromise is then necessary. Either one single individual can do all of these things, should he be given the time to do so, but with the tools and processes of his choosing: instead of endless back and forth between pixel-perfect static mockups, let the whole design process happen in browser (or in a browser-like environment). Another solution is to get more people to work on the project (money). What companies usually need when looking for a UX designer is a UI designer, T-shaped.And yet, there is still something bugging me about User Experience Design. The term itself is a bit weird : user experience of a given product or service cannot be controlled, so how can it be designed ?Thankfully, Jesse James Garret answer these two question in his book the Elements of User Experience. It is not the experience that is designed. We design the product, which in turn shapes the experience. Also, interaction through screen is not the only way to experience something.Let’s look at the experience of eating at a typical fast food chain (any will do). They offer some of the most simple, streamlined experiences available :People who have entered a fast food restaurant have at least been through steps 1 to 6. Yet at each of these simple steps, something can go wrong.Also, the only interactive screen involved in the one used to input your order (true, you may have been the one pushing the buttons). Yet you know that something was done to guide what you were experiencing the entire time.Because I really like food, I will borrow from Pixar’s movie, Ratatouille, to illustrate my next point (if you haven’t seen it, give it a shot, it’s awesome). In the scene where Remi, the rat, observe the kitchen of a restaurant from a window on the roof, and describes each worker’s job and responsibilities, the movie does a great job explaining that EVERYONE is important. The receptionist, the waiter, the chef, the sous-chef, the saucier, etc. Even the lowest job of all, the garbage boy. Every member of the staff brings value to the overall experience. The overall experience is the only thing that matters.If the food is good but the waiter obnoxious (as it “sometimes” happens in Paris), then the product failed to be perfect. While that’s not great, it’s not the end of all things. The experience, what the customer will perceive in this given situation is unpredictable. Maybe this person will leave a review on Yelp that looks like this :Or the review might look more like this :It depends on this specific person set of values and sensibility, in this specific moment. As a matter of fact, the term should probably be pluralized : user experiences. To each user his own experiences. There can be as many if not more experiences as there is users, since while different users will have the same experience (good or bad), a single user may have a different experience the next time around.User experience is a result, and often more than the sum of its parts.The UX designer is, ultimately, an auditor. He has a set of very specific tools that can be applied to any part of a product or service.The more well-defined and consistent the product is, the more users will know what to expect, and will adjust their expectations. No product is perfect, and that’s ok. Fast food chains leave much to be desired, but they are consistent. Therefore, their customers experiences are similar to one another. People who don’t want to eat fast food don’t go there. People who do, know what to expect. Thus, the variance is small, the experiences are similar, controlled. It is then possible to merge them into one single, representative experience. That’s when we can talk of User Experience Design.Back to screens. This logic still holds when applied on online applications. Yes, the UX designer is certainly involved in information architecture, content strategy and interface design for interactive applications.And those seven homepage redesign mockups to deliver by Thursday are not his job. That is a job for the UI designer. I mean web designer. Visual designer?Whatever floats your boat. Just make sure all the people around the table share the same understanding of what you’re talking about.User Experience and Interaction Designer. I care about people, user experience, details, and consistency.considerations over definition, structure, roles, process, efficiencies, and order.

When you’ve reached the phone screen or the in-person interview step, you’ve gotten past the hard part: you have demonstrated that you have the qualifications to work at the company. You’re now being judged on whether you have the soft skills and culture fit.While going through the process and after holding previous talks at The standard chaos presents incredible opportunities where you as designers can take control of the interview and show you can fill their need.Run the interview preparation through the user experience process, and you’ll be ahead of the pack every time. I’m going to skip some of the standard stuff, like take a shower or dress appropriately, because that’s common sense.Let’s talk about what really matters.I don’t just mean what the company has made, or its history. Try to know the people, who they are, what they’ve done in the past, and what they might be doing now.There’s nothing that impresses me more than when an applicant knows who I am and what my background is. And considering that if they search on Google for my name (“Patrick Neeman”) about the first 60 results, they should know exactly who I am, from the The reason?Any User Experience activity should start by understanding the target audience, and job interviews are no different. It shows that the interviewee understands that any process requires research even before you start.So how would you do it?During most interview loops you are interviewing with up to six people, and each represents a different role and possibly a persona. They will all have different skill sets and different needs. They will all ask different questions that are relevant to their role in the company. Before you go into the interview, you should understand their role and background so you can be ready for their questions.For example, the questions a Product Manager asks should be much different than those from a Design Manager. Understanding that context is key, so that you can answer questions in their language.I look for commonalities in experience — for example, one candidate I interviewed this week had experience similar to mine in the healthcare field — so we could talk about some of that. It would be awesome if the interviewees actually did that, so that we could discuss what we have learned from each experience and how it applies to our product design today.A key question I ask: “How would you explain Apptio to your parents?” It’s a question that is really hard to answer well, so getting a good response is a great indication they have researched the position.Designers bring in their portfolios on different devices. Sometimes it’s a laptop, other times they refer to their website. Occasionally (this happens at Apptio), we present on the big screen.The presentations I find most engaging are iPads and printed documentation.For iPads, showing work creates a more intimate experience: you can connect directly with the person you are presenting to. On a flight to Vancouver I had a conversation with a game designer, and he discussed that usability tests they had performed showed that users view iPads as a window to the world, looking down to access content. This experience was much different than playing games on an XBox or Playstation, so they had learned how to design their games differently to account for this context.Dead tree material can provide the same experience: as you flip through pages, you can tell an amazing story, as with an iPad. It’s a bit more physical with printed paper, but you can be more intimate as you explain your story.Remember, it’s about engagement and telling a story. As you sit next to your interviewer, look down at the work, explain it, and then look into their eyes to make sure you’re explaining the solution in a context they understand. This creates a very intimate experience that is hard to replicate on other devices, like sit-forward experiences (laptops) or sit-back experiences (presenting on a larger screens).What I like best about interviews is that you can get in front of a whiteboard. Talking about collaboration is one thing; demonstrating it with the interviewer is a completely different experience that very few designers take advantage of. Many companies, including Amazon, use this as a way of judging their talent.Here’s an approach that works really well, if you’re interviewing with the right company.They’ll ask you to design a product or page, and will watch to see how you approach the problem to drive at a solution. There is no right or wrong answer, but there is a right or wrong approach to this question.Example questions:Each question drives home a different point of process. It does so in a way that doesn’t preach the user experience process, which is very important. It also involves them in the process, so you are showing how you can educate them how to do great product design and be collaborative at the same time.It’s all about audience context, and this is a great way to show that you understand your audience without being condescending.One story I have absolutely down is Bob The Chiropractor, a five page website I built for a friend of mine for beers. It’s a small but incredible story about lead generation. I’ve told that story so many times, I show a maximum of two screens to illustrate the value that I brought to the product — the initial home page and the Google Analytics conversion page. It’s also a really powerful story because it’s a small project that still clearly illustrates that you can run user experience on almost anything.How do you get your stories down? Tell them over and over again, and get feedback from other designers over a drink.A few weeks ago, I met up with two designers I’ve mentored. One of the designers is looking for a new position in user experience, but they can’t tell the story of where they working at now because the work is is under NDA.So what did the designer do?Create a presentation the explains every step of the user experience process they went through, from research to final implementation. Most important is practicing the presentation with a very critical audience and getting feedback. The designer has done this over and over again. Their portfolio is already good, but like any great designer, they want to raise the bar.When the presentation is done, they will have the story down so it can be told again and again. This presentation is so good, they’ll get hired before having to tell the story too many times.If you engage with the interviewer, you can get them talking (good), telling their stories (better), and understand their needs (best).During most interviews you’ll have an hour with the interviewer. Your job: engage with that interviewer as much as possible. Show them that you understand their wants and needs.The first time I did the UX Resume presentation was at UX Speakeasy in San Diego, California. My co-presenter was Dylan Campbell, principal of Dylan is a master of telling stories — he is screenwriter on the side — and even better at engaging with people. That’s his job as a salesperson, because ultimately sales is engaging with customers. I enjoy conversations with him because not only is he entertaining, he listens and engages me. Dylan makes me feel like a million bucks, even if we haven’t talked in months.Back to the event: that engagement was in full force the first night.I went to the speakers’ dinner with Dylan, and everyone loved talking with him. He was engaging, telling stories, but more importantly he got everyone else to talk and tell their stories. After the dinner everyone talked about how great Dylan was, but no one really knew who he was. The same goes for interviewing.If you engage with the interviewer, you can get them talking (good), telling their stories (better), and understand their needs (best). When you understand their needs, you can frame your experience in terms of solving their problems. It’s a typical user interview — understand who they are — but you are in essence giving a report of your findings right then. And people love talking, because very few get asked about what they need and then actually listened to, especially in today’s narcissistic world of Facebook and Twitter.The longer you engage with the interviewer, that’s less time that you are forced to talk, and more importantly, there’s fewer opportunities for you to make mistakes during the interview.Designers have an amazing advantage over other positions: we can show the work we are involved in and how our value has direct impacts on products. Showing a portfolio is much more powerful than talking about return on investment or performing a code test.It’s up to you as a designer to take advantage of this context and turn it into a great opportunity.Interaction Designer and World Citizen. Runs uxdrinkinggame.com and usabilitycounts.com. The opinions here are my own, however misguided.Reruns from the blog Usability Counts. Without apology.

Hi. My name is António. I like long walks by the beach and bicycle rides in sunny summer days. I’m a Designer, an Art Director, a Web Designer, a UI Designer, heck, even mobile. But I’m not a UX designer.Sure, I’ve read the books, the tutorials, the posts and the tips and tricks. I know (some of) the techniques, the objectives of the process, the principles. I even designed some wireframes and done some user interviews for my own projects. Overall, I feel like I have a good understanding of what User Experience is all about, but the fact is, I’m not a UX Designer.Those, are professionals who solely studied for that purpose. People who have major experience doing this work, people who know how to streamline processes, define relevant user journeys, identify all personas, choose what kind of approach is best for each project. People who do this all the time and for a living, who have several hours of work under their belts, and with that experience, know better than you, what you should do.I know, you feel confident about your job, your skills. You can design wireframes, mockups, pixel perfect layouts, code them in HTML, integrate them in some CMS system and even publish them online. You’re Creative Director, Art Director, Creative Technologist, Front-end Developer, Back-end Developer and QA. You control the whole process, you’re web design god, if there was such a thing. I get it, I really do. And that’s great, for smaller projects, for personal websites, for even some commercial and client work. And that makes you a very flexible and knowledgeable designer (if that’s what we might call you), but the reality is, you can’t always do everything yourself. And you shouldn’t.So no, I’m not a UX Designer, and I bet that more than 50% of the people who say they are in their resumes, twitter bios, sidebar descriptions, about section, aren’t either.London based Digital Art Director. Occasional writer.

UX researchers like myself have a nasty habit.When you spend your days studying how people use products, your intuition around such things gets pretty well-honed. You start to see patterns and themes. You get to a point where you can point to an observed behavior, ask “What might this mean?” and generate some great high-level and philosophical discussions with your stakeholders. People start to seek you out for answers to their questions about users, even when you haven’t done research that could answer those questions.As a researcher, this can feel pretty great and emboldening. After all, you’ve done the work! You’ve put in countless hours in the lab and in the field and poring over data. You know this stuff pretty well.At some point, though, you may hear yourself cross the Rubicon. It happens as phrases like “users hate” start slipping out of your mouth during those conversations. Or “people love this stuff,” or “people don’t get this type of interaction.” Overgeneralization starts creeping into your language despite your best instincts and intentions.You’ve probably seen this happen if you’re a UX researcher. Sometimes you may be the one slowly shaking your head and muttering One guess is that UX research as a field suffers from a deep sense of paranoia about not appearing scientific enough. The sense that, by stating limitations to a study and what it can tell you in a setting that’s as fast-moving and results-driven as a digital product company, you’ll be introducing more questions about your value than you will actual value. You’re there to be an expert, right? You damn well better have answers when someone asks you questions.This calls to mind This hybrid mentality is a valuable trait to have when studying how people use digital products, too. The work is often fuzzy. It’s subject to circumstance and nuance and influenced by phenomena that are difficult or impossible to measure. The result is that the work often produces an informed perspective on how some people use and feel about very specific things rather than The Truth About How All People Use And Feel About All Things.This is especially true in an age when the experiences UX researchers are tasked with understanding are increasingly diverse: more types and models of devices keep showing up and old ones keep sticking around, products are increasingly being built to meet just a few needs of a small population rather than many needs of a large population, many of the most exciting new product experiences out there are initiated digitally but occur mostly in the real world, and new products are introducing new interface standards, gestures and interactions all the time.The experiences we study are fragmenting, and that’s a trend that will only get more dramatic over time. It’s a transition that’s forcing UX research to shift from broad and shallow explorations to deep and narrow ones. The days when a researcher could observe a few folks using a website on a desktop computer, crank out an observation like “users hate carousels” and call it a day are so far behind us it’s difficult to make them out in the rearview mirror.So why would a user experience researcher write something like this? Why knock the degree to which user research findings can or should be generalized?Because if you’re a UX researcher, you do yourself and your field no favors when you claim to have all of the answers. In the current digital product landscape, UX research’s real value is in helping to reduce uncertainty. And while that’s not as sexy as knowing everything about everything, there’s great value in it. In fact, it’s critical. It also has the added bonus of being honest.Embracing the humility needed to state the limitations of your work upfront is an increasingly important part of doing user research well. One consequence of doing so may be fewer people thinking you have the keys to some secret trove of universal wisdom about users. But another may be more people better understanding your role, which is to inject specific insights and inspiration — not always universal truths —into the process of building great products.UX Research at Airbnb. Formerly of Facebook, HUGE and NPR.

It’s tough to evaluate UX designers. User experience encompasses a lot of different skills, and as a relatively new field, there isn’t a shared understanding.Many interviewers just go with their gut instinct, and as with all subjective decision-making, our innate biases can unintentionally influence our choices. To counter this, researchers recommend developing At We use I won’t go into what these UX skills are since she’s We use these same criteria across all designer levels, but weighted differently. For example, we don’t expect an entry-level designer to have the same level of leadership skills as a senior designer.This is our typical process:We’ve been using these hiring criteria for 6+ months now at Opower, and like with design, we treat hiring as an iterative process.We’ll continue to train interviewers, source/interview/evaluate candidates, and hopefully give out offers. As we do so, we’ll keep improving our interview questions and design exercises to best evaluate each of these qualities. But that will have to be for a future post…Designer @ OPOWER, believer in daily habits and the importance of sharing a good meal. A collection of articles written by the Opower UX team.

My kids aren’t yet old enough to learn to drive. But I picture myself in the passenger seat, years from now, and imagine what it feels like to teach them. I’m sure it’s terrifying, but that’s not what I mean. What’s it like, I wonder, to watch someone go through the same motions I went through, the same learning curve, the same growth process.Product management is, in the digital space, learning to drive, but they didn’t just get their learner’s permit. While the field is still gelling, Product Management isn’t strictly new. That said, it’s influence on our work emerged in technology in the last 5–10 years. I’m the designer sitting in the passenger seat, watching things unfold.In all fairness to the PM, even from the passenger seat, it’s easy to see how much has changed in web design since the advent of UX. Shifts in the business gave rise to new roles, new players, and new influences. I sense strong opportunities between product management and design, but we haven’t yet settled into a plan for sharing the car just yet.To help me understand product management better, I interviewed about a dozen people in the space. As with any kind of user research, patterns emerged, but it was just as instructive to see where product managers diverged in their thinking. One area where they diverged most is in the role of UX. Here’s what I learned from them:For all designers’ whining about short time frames and lack of context, product managers love the regularity and routine of agile frameworks. The agile philosophy emphasizes communication, organization, and execution, all in the context of meeting user needs.The complexity of products depends on contributor communications, but also the ability for contributors to understand what’s important to each other. Products stumble when team members become too preoccupied with their own work, tasks, and outputs, without considering the relative impact on others. The routine depends on people playing specific roles reliably, without compromising open, face-to-face communications.Product managers are often measured on how much they ship. However they got there, product managers rely on agile frameworks to get their products shipped.In the early days of web development, information architects often served as a central hub of project information. Translators between underlying models and user-facing interfaces, information architects found themselves serving as conduit and mediator between various teams. The baton has been passed to product managers.Perhaps this move has come from product conception moving in-house, and someone needing to own the long-term vision of a product, not just the near-term project goals. Product managers maintain a picture of the product’s final state in their head. One product manager told me that he doesn’t have any actual pictures of this final state, but he knows, almost instinctively, what he wants the product to do.But vision is just a small piece of their puzzle. They also have their roadmap and backlog, everything they’ve planned and they know they need to do. Sure, product managers keep documentation of these things, but many of the people I spoke to implied they need to embody these artifacts. Consistency, by way of clear priorities, allows product managers to succeed.When I asked one product manager what keeps them up at night, he said:Their emotional state isn’t governed by anxiety, but by a lack of control. They remain hamstrung by legacy organizational structures, separating key functions (like marketing or development or even design) into autonomous areas. Product managers crave centralizing these functions under product. Their view of the world is that everything is in service to the product.Developing products can sometimes feel like running through a laundry list of feature requests. Most day-to-day work is at the feature level, answering questions about the what, who, and why. They approve designs and manage the moving parts affect each other.But a product is more than the sum of its features. It has impact throughout the organization and, ideally, throughout the market. Product managers must maintain a sensitivity to the ripples their product makes, the demands it places on the organization. Sometimes those impacts translate not to small tweaks but instead to major re-structuring. A product in the market attracts feedback, and product managers learn whatOne product I helped design depended on our solving a wicked problem. We didn’t take it to final design, but that wasn’t the need. The product manager was very happy with the outcome: Our collaboration yielded a new application architecture.Product managers, as a whole, are as puzzled about design as everyone else. Individually, however, everyone has a strong opinion. Like many debates in our industry, this one has been reduced to a binary choice: UX either reports to product, or they sit outside the product organization.In the first model, a product manager has a UX presence on his or her team, and that designer is focused specifically on that product. The designer fits into the agile framework like any other contributor to the team, operating in sprints, for example, churning out their piece of the product development puzzle. While the picture of efficiency, it creates tension when there are design needs outside the product development process, like a style guide or more generalized user research.In the second model, UX behaves as a service, assigning designers to projects as they come up. This model gives designers a broader perspective across the organization and supports their efforts to attack problems not directly tied to a product, but introduces other risks. They acutely feel the friction of trying to fit a square user-centered design peg into the round hole of agile. Perhaps they grow frustrated because it’s unclear who owns the “final design” of a product.Most of the product managers I spoke to actually experience a hybrid, where UX is its own group complete with senior managers, but has designers permanently assigned to product teams. Based on the product managers’ accounts, however, these hybrid models don’t alleviate the tensions described.The most optimistic approach I heard was from one product manager who used the word “partnership.” While organizations are trying to figure out the managerial relationship between PM and UX, the truth is that the product wants two parents to nurture it in important and different ways.Product management has, no doubt, much to learn from the user experience field, but product managers are distinct, having unique concerns and perspectives. Design in the digital age continues to go through its own growing pains: where do we fit in the organization? what counts as UX? how much research is enough? do I need to learn to code? why is that still a thing?For as much as they are distinct, both product management and design have shared values. They regard these values from unique perspectives, and the product benefits from this happy tension. Mutual respect provides the foundation for difficult conversations that arise when their approaches diverge.Whether you think product management and user experience design are essentially the same, or two completely different fields, the notion of product is changing how we approach design. My conversations with product managers yielded one important and universal conclusion: Thinking of the product as the beneficiary of multiple perspectives with shared values gives the team unified purpose.Are you a Published inDesigner • Co-founder of Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

I’m the founder of a Here is the comprehensive list of digital resources and tools to help you on your ux path.Founder, HTTPster and UX Director of UX Digital Agency in Melbourne, Carter. 

Facebook is a great inspiration for designers like me. Millions of people use it constantly and even the least technological ones know how to handle it. However — the platform still has some simple UX features it’s missing to improve its User Experience.Turns out the song your friend just posted is crap, but you’re already way ahead in the page. So now you ask yourself “How do I stop this nonsense?”. You scroll up and down to find that youtube video (and maybe unfriend the guy who posted it), but it’s just too hard to find anything with so much noise in there.When a post gets very popular, facebook won’t load its comments in your feed. instead — it will redirect you a different page. When that happens — it will unexpectedly force you to lose content you wanted to read.Many times when viewing an image or a video in a modal, there’s a link in the comments to another image, which opens a different modal, but closes the current one.I think Facebook should ask us for the subjects we care about, and let us reduce the amount of posts we get from certain people and pages, so that the ones who are actually interesting to us will have more place in our feed.Going through my feed now, and here’s what I find:Facebook offers a survey to ‘Help Make News Feed Better’, but it only asks how much certain posts feel like ads or not. They don’t really care about your feed being more entertaining, they only care about you clicking ads.I think if Facebook wants to stay relevant, then it needs to start showing the user what HE wants to see. Flipboard, Twitter and many more are doing this much better.Having said all that, I still think their team is doing a great job. I guess it’s not easy to keep a usable site with so many users and also keep the profits to the maximum.As for me, I think the best way I can improve my Facebook experience is to spend less time there.

Mobile has changed the way we interact with content. As UX practitioners, we need to rethink the design paradigm for the web. Simply translating desktop designs to mobile screens is not an option. Small touch screens on smartphones, tablets, and e-readers change the way users input and interact with content.Established desktop behaviors (i.e. mouse inputs, physical keyboards) are removed from the mobile experience. Traditional interaction elements are removed from the mobile experience, but users are now offered a new set of input methods that are not possible within the desktop environment. Mobile technology has provided us with touch screens for gestures of tap, flick and drag interaction; GPS for location-based services (geolocation and mapping); accelerometers to leverage tilt and screen orientations; and the camera(s).Also remember not to treat tablets and smartphones in the same way when you build user experiences for mobile. The desktop is not the same as tablet and mobile.When starting to design mobile user experiences, become familiar with the each platform’s Human Interface Guidelines (HIG). Each operating system/platform has its own HIG resource and will provide you with information on each OS’s unique design patterns and user interface caveats and best practices.Mobile is a digital environment and we have a variety of tools and frameworks to choose from and work with when designing mobile content and the mobile user experience. Let us put aside the digital tools and get back to our designer roots. Drop the technologies and go analog. Sketching is an essential part of UX design. It frees you from the confines of digital tools and offers a way for you to visualize your ideas quickly. Sketching allows you to see the possible movements through the information space. “If the user taps here, they will go there or get this.” A series of boxes and arrows will give form to your idea and illustrate your interaction. Everything is possible here. Don’t limit your ideas.Work in progress of mobile sketching with the help of an Iterate your ideas. One of the hardest things to learn in building mobile user experiences is to let go of your initial designs, sketches and ideas. Try a new approach, take a new direction or look at your sketches and think about what can be improved or removed. Most importantly, consider whether the current set of interactions is essential to the functionality and more importantly to the user experience. Simple is hard to do. The practice of iteration will help push your designs forward towards building a better user experience. When you are finished with your first set of mobile UX designs, search out users for their input and criticism. You may not receive the type of feedback you were hoping to hear, but honest feedback is the most valuable feedback. Celebrate positive feedback, but more importantly act on negative feedback from your users. Go back to sketching and Asking users will help you further understand how users think, how they will interact with the mobile application and identify friction points and flaws within your mobile UX designs. Empathize with the user to keep your mobile designs user-centric.Mobile users often access content by snacking — pivoting through information in quick bursts. These information snacks occur when the user is waiting in line or requires a piece of information quickly. The user’s attention is only partially captivated by the mobile app and is distracted by the world around them.Ultimately, mobile tasks are interrupted. How you will help the user restart their interrupted tasks? Mobile is tactile and unique. It is not just a smaller version of the desktop experience. Users may never be 100% engaged in your content. Treat your mobile UX as a continual work in progressFollow me on twitter: Dad, Educator  UX Designer with a focus on Mobile Design. Coffee aficionado, kettlebell killer, avid cyclist, all-round pirate and HTML5 Evangelist.Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Is there a conflict between providing expert services and training for those skills?A colleague wrote:My colleague was correct. Some user experience skills are always better than no user experience skills.With no UX skills on the team, there’s a good chance that whatever the team produces will have a poor UX. Probably close to 100%. Any designs that aren’t a poor UX are just accidents that work out in the users’ favor.As you add UX skills to the team, you increase the odds that good user experiences will emerge in the team’s designs. The more skills, the better the odds.There are two ways to add skills to the team. One way is to bring on someone already with those skills. We could call that person a UX Expert.The other way is train the team in having the skills. Of course, training takes time and the quantity of skills (and experience — also important) that the team has will emerge slowly.But UX Experts eventually leave. Teams rarely lose critical skills, especially if they’ve done a good job of training everyone on the team, not just one person.Bringing on someone with skills and training the rest of the team in those skills are not mutually exclusive activities. In fact, they are quite synergistic. The UX Expert can act as a coach and leader, helping the team become self sufficient in the long term.UX is a complex field because there are lots of complexities: accessibility, mobile design, working in government agencies, working in an agile development process, and dealing with cross-cultural needs, to name a few. Yet, these are edge cases. 80% of UX work is quite routine and when learned by everyone on the team, creates consistently good designs.The first UX skills anyone learns is to shift their thinking from the requirements of the system and the business to the experience of the user. They become sensitive to what it’s like to use the designs they are creating. It’s rare for that to result in worse designs than what you had before you developed that sensitivity.Once you have everyone on the team with a solid UX skillset, you can tackle those harder, more complex problems by bringing in some expertise. Or better yet, growing your own.That’s how we get better designs all around.Thank you for encouraging my behavior! Founder of Thoughts about user experience design and strategy.

Part Three in a series of posts on how to recruit UX talent“Where do you find designers to hire?” Now that you Most designers are sourced from large in-house teams, other startups, design agencies, universities, and online sites where designers congregate. For employers, this article will help you understand how to think about different ways to source candidates and what to look for. If you are a prospective applicant for startups, this article may help you decide how to best conduct your job search or develop your career. If you are a student, this article includes some programs to consider as you pursue your education.Targeted outreach is among the most effective ways to find someone to hire, especially if the team has prior experience working with good designers and/or has a large network.Companies like Google, Yahoo!, LinkedIn, eBay, Apple, Adobe, Intuit, Twitter, and Facebook can employ hundreds of designers and are fertile ground for breeding designers who can work with cross functional teams to ship products. Because they have large teams, junior designers get mentored by more senior designers and are exposed to good design leadership and management practices. Oracle, Salesforce, Citrix, and SAP are enterprise companies that also employ many designers. Be willing to also consider some non-obvious places that aren’t top of mind; for example, I’ve hired some terrific people from Walmart.com and Bank of America.Startups and smaller companies are a viable source for designers, particularly if they have been with the company for 2–4 years and the future of the company is uncertain.Design agencies are often filled with young designers who have been mentored by strong design leaders, and some of them are eager to work in an in-house team and have a chance be part of the shipping team and own equity. Many agencies also pay less than large companies can afford to pay, in exchange for a work environment that values and understands design and gives designers the chance to work on a wide range of projects. Agencies like IDEO, Frog, Method, and Adaptive Path (now owned by Capital One) hire well and train well, but don’t overlook small boutique firms that are less well-known.Increasingly, designers are posting work samples online to build their reputation and get discovered. Some startups have successfully recruited terrific designers by browsing through online sites for designersThere are a few job boards focused on user experience opportunities. Consider posting on these sites:Many recruiters who specialize in design talent work on a contingency basis or on a retainer. I prefer to work with recruiters who specialize in UX because they understand how to screen candidates and have a good nose for culture fit.New college graduates are challenging for startups because they often lack real-world hands-on experience, even if they’ve had internship experience. Since many startups are themselves very inexperienced with design, having a new college grad as your lead/sole designer in a startup is akin to the blind leading the blind; they are too early in their careers to work effectively as the sole designer in a company and provide leadership necessary to do good design work.Different programs specialize in different areas of UX expertise. Here is a (not comprehensive) list of (mostly U.S.-based) notable programs and schools that have produced graduates with skills sought after by employers. The list is NOT ranked in any particular order.Interaction design:Visual design:User research:Don’t rule out people who are not local. There are good designers that live outside your area, and there are good designers who are eager to relocate. One of the best designers I’ve met at a KV portfolio company relocated from Europe after being “discovered” by the CEO online. The CEO determined it was worth waiting for the visa and relocation to get a great designer of a caliber that would otherwise be difficult to find and hire in the SF Bay Area.A final thought on sourcing candidates: designers want to work in companies where they feel the company values what they do. If your product or website looks terrible or if someone coming to your site can’t determine the value proposition for your product from looking at the product, you will have a much harder time attracting designers to join your company. This is a paradox: the companies with lousy designs are the ones who need designers the most, yet most designers interpret bad design as a sign that the company does not value design, or that the company doesn’t understand their own raison d’etre which will make the designers’ jobs that much harder. It is crucial for these companies to (1) represent themselves well, and (2) build a design team with the right attitude: optimistic, can-do, proactive, take responsibility and not adopt a victim mindset.(Operating partner at Khosla Ventures; former head of design at Google, Yahoo, Udacity. Yoga + meditation teacher, Montessori mom, dessert maker.

How to Improve Retention With Design: 3 UX Laws to Retain UsersWith entire industries dedicated to figuring out how to retain more users, we subscribe to the old mantra that “It’s cheaper to keep existing customers than acquire new ones.”Whether or not this is a A previous post in the Framed Data This directly speaks to user experience design. As UX practitioners, we must keep in mind:To help answer these two questions, here’s a quick and effective framework:It sounds simple, but you’d be surprised how often the classic UX laws are ignored in digital design and beyond. In fact, you may be Then we wrap up with how these laws, combined with testing, leads to more powerful designs.Today, we’ll be covering these three laws:Sounds like common sense: more choices leads to more time evaluating which choice to make. The terms “analysis paralysis” or “death by numbers” may come to mind — In ‘N Out Menu: This simple menu has worked for over half a century. Even indecisive eaters will find it a challenge to take more than 1 minute to decide what to eat. For a chain the size of Best Buy, the website shown below has a surprisingly simple and streamlined menu.Referencing a favoriteTons of choices but cleanly laid outDon’t confuse your users with too many choicesWhat’s going on? Customers (especially new ones) are inundated with options. Unlike Best Buy’s Menu, Staples’ “mega menu” can be quite overwhelming.Google defines In English: The closer and bigger something is to you, the easier  faster it is for you to touch it (accurately). Ever use an app with tiny, easy-to-miss buttons? It baffles me that people with big fingers manage to send intelligible texts.Check out the Yelp app’s home screen. Each of the main categories — particularly search, are big buttons that make it fast  easy to search for reviews on the go.Large iconsThough not necessarily a bad design — this showcases showcasing how Fitts’ law is not maximized here; smaller target areas = harder to touch accurately.This is probably the most contentious UX Law. It should really be a UX Their subtle differences often work in conjunction. Hick’s law specifically addresses the New product landing pages like The rest of the links such as Blog, About Us, Jobs are This is Miller’s Law at practice: the minimal amount of form fields for someone to provide payment. The form is also Check out Style.com. There are 9 top-level categories, but they seem disparate and thrown together randomly. We have seeming similar categories such as News, Community, and Magazine — which may potentially be chunked together.Now compare that to Fashionista.com. Not perfect, but the 8 available categories they present already seem more logical and a cohesive whole than Style.com.It’s hard to This blog post will be a fail if I ignored any of the principles myself. Instead of inundating you with To make these laws even easier to remember, here’s a ridiculous story that may help:Ironically, a “law” is something that’s not supposed to change, like the law of gravity.But when applied to user experience design, the laws are Design teams can analyze existing products through the lens of these three usability laws. First, it always helps to have some baseline metrics to measure against.You get this by asking the questions:Based on what you find, you may apply one of the usability laws to increase conversions on a desired user path. For example, maybe only 3 out of 5 links on a page really matter. Perhaps remove two of the links and emphasize the more important link.This is a pedestrian example, but you get the point. Make changes, then test the new design with real users. Even getting the opportunity to sit with 3–5 people and observing how they interact with your product is invaluable.Whether it’s a completely new app or section to your website, this is a good chance to create an effective user experience from the beginning. For example, designing with Hick’s and Miller’s Laws in mind helps you grant the user more focus to complete tasks, and less superfluous options that lead to decision paralysis.Do you really need to make your users input their age and location, or is just taking their emails enough? (Or perhaps you can collect some of this data automatically without form input).Then, just as with existing products, you’d test your design with real users to identify qualitative findings (user confusion) or quantitative metrics such as the time it takes for a user to get to a certain part of your product. Is your user spending more than a minute trying to read and understand your home page text?Maybe your findings lead you to find that the home page has too much copy, or that the copy itself is confusing. Tweak that. Good UX design should be Predictive analytics for user churn. We use machine learning to help you identify when and why users are leaving. | #CustomerRetention #Data

You probably know by now that mobile has taken off, and there’s no stopping it anytime soon. What you probably didn’t know is just how popular mobile really is. In fact, did you know that the number of mobile users has already overtaken the number of traditional, desktop users? It’s true!According to comScore, an Internet analytics company, this past March saw, for the first time ever, the number ofThis means that people are increasingly buying things or reading the news on their mobile phones while on the go. The failure to design with mobile in mind will be catastrophic for any e-commerce site or publication.Keep your mobile design clean and simple. Go for practicality and usefulness over any fanciness in your design. Remember that you’re designing for a much smaller screen than if you would for desktop. With screen real estate being very precious, it’s also just common sense that you can’t do a complex design. Thus, minimalism is your best bet.This also helps the user experience. After all, when users are looking at an uncluttered interface in their iPhones or Android devices, they’re going to be able to find what they’re looking for on a site extremely quickly, which improves their user experience.What does minimalism on a mobile screen look like? Users should only see the content that they need to see to properly use the site — which will automatically prompt them to explore and navigate further. Also, buttons and menus should be intuitive, in keeping with the focus on simplicity.Look at Though you’re designing for mobile, not all mobile devices are created equally. This is key to successful mobile UX design today, but some designers forget that there are various platforms for which they have to design. Designing for mobile means designing for mobile apps and mobile sites. It’s imperative that you understand what devices your audience uses and what their mobile behavior is like. In other words, you shouldn’t design an app or a mobile site with the mistaken belief that iPhone and Android users will interact with your app or site in the same way.Research shows that Though there are now more people surfing the Internet on mobile than desktop, many of those people obviously started out browsing websites on their desktops. This means that they’ve come to expect a certain standard in terms of site navigation and appearance from all their time using desktop.Therefore, when designing for mobile, don’t mess with expectations and conventions: make sure your client’s mobile site replicates the navigation standards of any desktop site with great UX.Here are some common features that you should carry over into your mobile navigation:We can see highly functional navigation on This is the most important tip on this page, by far. It’s so important that every other tip leading up to this is useless if you failed to design your client’s mobile site in such a way as to get the conversion at the end of the user’s mobile-site browsing. The last thing you want is that dreaded shopping cart abandonment to occur, especially when you’ve already gone through the trouble of recognizing and trying to design a completely mobile-friendly site.Unsurprisingly studies show that like on desktop, shopping cartOne of the most notorious ways that the mobile checkout process can suffer is when the call to action and checkout buttons fail to support the shopper’s expectations. For instance, the buttons could be too small to easily see or tap on, or they could just fail to appear as soon as items are added to the cart.For an inspiring example on doing this basic design feature right, we look to Some designers just don’t get it. Designing for mobile is an entirely different concept than designing for desktop. Sure, you’ll have similarities, but they only go so far. Of course you want to keep your mobile design as close to the conventions that users are used to from desktop browsing, but there are exceptions.Minimalism — doing more with less — should be the golden rule for mobile design since the screen’s much smaller. Designers also have to understand that the user behavior for iOS and Android isn’t the same, so it’s best to research what each user base does with their smartphones beforehand. Of course, you’ll also have to design different mobile and apps for different platforms.Finally, the big one to get right is to make the checkout process as smooth as possible. Never inhibit shoppers from buying on their smartphones! If you do, it’s like throwing money out the window.Follow all these mobile-design best practices, and you’ll have happier clients who’ll get more conversions.Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

Good UX team managers feel responsible for the overall work product of their UX and UI designers, researchers, and prototypers. They care deeply about creating useful, usable, and craveable products, and they make sure the team is designing the right things for customers and the business. They ensure designs are consistent across products, features, and across designers, and they foster the development of design pattern libraries that benefit the entire company. They clearly set and communicate the right priorities.Bad UX design managers lose themselves in the weeds. They fuss over unimportant details, losing sight of the more strategic design issues that only someone at their level can see. They’re defensive in the face of criticism, and they blame the designers, the PMs, and engineers for getting it wrong.Good UX managers direct and coach their team. They help their team understand the appropriate context so that product designers can focus on the fun work of problem solving. They provide regular, timely, and helpful feedback. They line up the right internal and external resources when needed. They listen to the team and understand what motivates, and discourages, individual designers. They mentor the team and provide paths for growth.Bad UX managers micromanage. They are focused on the team’s output rather than the team’s well-being. When projects slip or quality flags, they push their designers harder on the same course, or they lose confidence in their designers and attempt to do the job themselves.Good UX team managers are a critical liaison between the designers and the rest of the company. They share context from the business with the team so that designers can understand how their work drives outcomes and affects future directions. They advocate for design within the organization, always building a case for why it’s critical to strategy and execution. They measure the impact of designers’ work on an ongoing basis and share the results with the team and others.Bad UX managers build a wall between the design team and the company at large. With bad UX managers, every design decision is a fight — it’s us vs. them. Bad UX managers don’t help the design team to understand business goals and outcomes. Instead, they push for new designs solely for the sake of being innovative. Designs that prove just how creative the team is take precedence over what’s right for customers, and the company.Bad UX managers are insular when it comes to their team and the greater design community. They feel paranoid about the possibility of poaching and turn the natural competition that exists with other UX leaders and hiring managers into an unhealthy thing.Good UX managers elevate the design discourse at large. They promote their company, and the designers in their company, and they help connect them with others in the industry. They want to evangelize good product design because it’s a good thing for users, and the world.Head of UX, Project Ara, Google ATAP. Formerly VP of Design at Inkling. Early joiner, late adopter.

Designing a product, is in many ways much like writing a novel. It is very hard to get it right the first time. It requires iterations, improvements and adjustments.As you move through designing and building a product, you learn through quantitative and qualitative data and you change your perspective. So you change the design. That is how it should be.Different iterations, presentations and meetings come and go, months pass by, and it becomes easy to lose focus on why you made certain decisions in the past, and chose to go in one design direction versus another.That is why I try to keep these three questions always in my mind at the beginning and during the design process.When designers do great work, people notice. We get a seat at the table. Then everyone wants design to help them. But you can only design well so many things. Good design takes time. So sometimes you have to turn people down. Life is short and I want to focus my design efforts into things that will change the game, improve peoples lives and have an impact on the bottom line. Keeping the focus of why what I am doing matters, and how it matters helps me to maintain my focus and energy throughout the harder parts of the project.This is probably the easiest thing to lose track of. Product managers, engineers, sales people, they all look at the designs 10 times a day. They have their own priorities. They give you feedback all the time.What about the user? You get user feedback, but I am almost 100% sure it is not nearly as much feedback as you get from everybody else. That is why it is so easy to lose focus on what the user cares about.As a designer it is your responsibility to make sure you NEVER lose track of the user.Ah, but I just said it is the designer’s job to keep the user goal in mind. That is true. But it is also true that if you lose the business goal within the long design process, getting any design solutions built will be virtually impossible. Keeping tabs on monetization strategies and business targets is as important as making sure your user is having a great experience. And yes, business goals and user goals can be aligned through design to create a great experience.Keep these three questions in mind. Look at them everyday. Ask them to yourself consistently and most importantly, answer them honestly. Your users and your co-workers will thank you for it.Follow me on twitter: I am an inventor who tells stories through design. Now Best practices, lessons learned, and stories from designers at leading tech companies

Last year I left sunny Brazil for even sunnier Dubai to help an amazing team by crafting the front-end of dubizzle’s new Given the flow size, user experience was a top priority. We spent quite a lot of time polishing the interface and adding bits that completely changed the interaction.One of the most rewarding aspects of front-end engineering is delivering a remarkable user experience — something achievable only through obsessive attention to detail.Details are a hidden language: they tell the audience how passionate you are about your product and how much time you invested in it. They reward the power users who explore its features. They add character and personality. I’d like to showcase a few of the nice little subtleties that helped turn the endless, laborious task of placing an ad into something quite pleasant. Props for Dubai is arguably one of the most cosmopolitan cities in the world, with almost 90 percent of its population consisting of expatriates. We welcome them with the so-called “Yalla Button” — in English, Hindi and Spanish as well.A handy show/hide password widget is also there for accessibility purposes.Internet Explorer 8 had an alarming 5.6 percent usage share, so we took action.The Instead of delving through categories and subcategories, CODI guesses where a listing should be placed based on its title.The user is then presented with a few guesses and the option to manually pick a category.Nice natural language processing built by Matt Smith published what was coined Funny enough, I came up with this solution four months earlier, back in June, 2013.Still, props for Matt for publishing about it and for sharing a neat JS implementation. ❤If the user ticks two items in the extras section we can safely assume he is willing to go through the whole list, so we expand it.The fourth list item is precisely cut in half to give a clear notion that the list is longer than that.Some mobile browsers crash if an user tries uploading large files. As preventing the user from trying things is a bad idea in general, we detect the file size and kindly Quoting dubizzle’s There is quite a lot going on in this one.If a neighbourhood is not found in the selected point, we calculate its altitude and display “In case the altitude service check doesn’t work, we serve, “The crosshair once again serves as additional feedback.A coffee mug icon can be seen in all custom packages that require negotiation with dubizzle’s sales department.It tells the customer dubizzle’s staff is friendly and open to talk.…said one of my colleagues, as he couldn’t understand why the project took so long to be completed. Maybe that means we reached our goal.Front-end engineer @ FetLife. Into entrepreneurship, ‌launched WEPUL‌ with friends. 

I’m still not quite sure how to explain what I do. Over the years, I’ve been called many things:1992: Graphic designerHere’s the lowdown: The titles keep changing, and they keep getting closer… but what I do has never changed. What I do is not a job. It’s a calling.Like many others, I was called to this path by the prophet Steven Paul Jobs. In 1985, in the vacation home of my father’s friend, I discovered MacPaint and the mouse on a brand-new Macintosh. My worldview was changed forever.This tool gave me superpowers. As a designer, I could attain perfection, beyond the limited abilities of the flesh, beyond my inconsistent penmanship, beyond my lack of prodigious talent for drawing or painting. Here was a tool that allowed me to ignore my personal limitations, and give full power to my visions and ideas.My love for design crystallized around this tool. Not just around using it to design, but as the focus of my design work. I wanted to design tools that empower people, and lets them delight in the act of creation. I wanted to give MacPaint moments to other children.That’s what I do. To this day, that’s what drives my approach and my motivation in all the UX work I do. I believe it’s my secret trick: I’m just hijacking this industry, hijacking my clients’ projects, to deliver clandestine empowerment and delight to the passengers, for romantic and ideological reasons. I’m working undercover for love.If I have one piece of advice, it’s to do it all for love in the end. If you’re smart, you’ll learn to disguise it as naked self-interest when you have to, but otherwise don’t lose track of your higher calling: You have a chance to give people’s brain a few minutes of clarity, of mastery, of meaning. You have a chance to show some future strangers that someone cared about them.Relish every chance to do these things as if it were your last, your swan song. Use every unbillable hour you can muster to give the end-user a bit more of your blood, sweat, tears and love.That’s what matters, in the end, because no amount of money will buy back the meaning you’ve let slip away. Cultivate meaning first, money second.Still, don’t forget to cultivate money second! Which brings us to my next tip.Second piece of advice: The best way to serve is to observe. I am eternally grateful to Observation works, where asking and listening don’t. Asking your end-users what they want or need is important-ish, as long as you never give them what they ask for. You ask them what they want only because their answer Ask your user what they want, and they’ll tell you:However, if you can then observe what they do, you can compare it to what they These are your edge. By knowing your users better than they know themselves, you can give them a better solution that they could ever ask for. That’s your goal, and you’ll get there by humbly going to your user, asking a few questions, and then observing them, with a loving heart, as they work.Third piece of advice is to seek discomfort. Most of us adapt when challenged, in order to return to balance and stability. But you’re the prime innovator in an innovation-driven industry. You should instead challenge balance and stability, in order to return to adapting.Do not develop a set of tools you can reuse. Don’t try to improve your templates and boilerplates and questionaires. Throw them away and do something different. Always reinvent the wheel, every time. The wheel is much less useful to you than its invention. Use every opportunity to invent.Be as fleet-footed, unhindered with baggage, as your youngest peers. They are inventing fresh versions of the naive things you’ve long ago stopped trying to do. Their simple solutions are based on what they know today, not what they knew three years ago. Do the same.Don’t seek to milk a client. Don’t pace your value. Don’t develop a partnering relationship. Don’t go retainer-couch-surfing. Change clients. Outgrow them and move on. Give them more value than they are ready for. Seek to push them so hard it takes them years to implement your ideas and be ready to call you back for more. Give them a UX so good they struggle to keep up as a company, and as human beings, with the promise you make to the user. Then move on and don’t look back too much. Just the occasional spot-check on your baby, and on the team, and some congrats at their success.Keep moving and changing clients, changing industries, changing fields. Your clients will call you back, years later, and you’ll be ready to bring new value, thanks to all the After more than twenty years in this business, I have less advice to give than ever. Too much has changed, myself included. But I’ve always done what I do for love, I’ve done it better when I remembered to observe and serve, and I’ve benefitted from looking up, not ahead. All the rest is details.Software. Performing Arts. Fiction. I craft experiences that empower and delight.Because magical experiences are counter-intuitive.

The only two fixed moments in the entire Hotel UX are the check in and the check out. Even the exploring, research and reservation are not obligatory parts of the process (e.g. when travelling through Provence in the summer of 2007, we didnt have any reservations but rather crashed a different hotel each night).In this rant Im focusing mostly on the I rarely wish to spend more time than is needed in the room, and focus mostly on exploring the city, having breakfast and (potentially) working in a nice looking café, just around the corner.Here are some ideas the hotels would benefit from. They require a minimum of intervention in the planning processWater, air and internet are the Most hotel bathrooms have a The same needs to happen for our digital extensions, portables ranging from cameras, laptops, and mostly — smart phones (or at least to finally make an iOS phone able to make it through the day). I constantly keep finding myself unplugging the hotel TV, bending over benches, pushing the minibar, and replacing the landline plug with my iPhone plug.The bed cover. Where does it go? What am I supposed to do with it? I usually put in on the floor (and then feel bad when leaving — it’s dirty!). Sometimes I fold it and put in the wardrobe (if they have it). Can we choose to live and sleep without the bed cover? How many of you use the cover in your home? Do you miss it if it’s not in the hotel room?With many written things regarding the learning process of the shower logics (namely I’m happy when I get the temperature to be It would be great to add a human, personalised touch to the entire experience. If someone travels in the same brand of hotels, you would imagine the reception would know in what part of the hotel he would like to get a room, what he likes to eat, drink and so on. Maybe you would replace the contents of the entire mini bar with a certain brand of drinks, the kind he always drinks. This, for instance, is a hack that doesnt cost the hotel anything other than little time to prepare. The drinks are charged by usage anyway, but it’s a nice little touch that goes a long way.Examples like this are far and beyond. I would argue that a five minute online search would provide sufficient information to make a little gesture for just about anyone.This entry is the 5th part of Designer. Creative director Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Their first class begins Jan 15There are also other courses very specialized to a certain domain like the one below.There are lots and lots of courses available on UX. The ones listed above are not the top ones, nor they are my recommendations. These are just some of the courses which I have bookmarked from time to time. For exact details of the course like content, duration, and fees, please visit their respective sites.If you would like any course to be added here, drop me a mail at pixelfiesta {at} gmail. com or add a comment here.There is lot of material on UX floating on the internet and its not difficult to find it. I just did a quick search on some of the popular content sites and here are the results pagesHope this will make things easy for youIf you are really serious about making a career in HCI, you might also want to check this Mostly tweets about Design, UX, Products, Marketing and startups. Lover of food and outdoors. Follow me as Reviews, journeys and analysis about using Indian websites, apps and services. Also thoughts and writings by Indian UXers/Design Thinkers.

For years, the “home” button has provided a compass rose, the north star, a navigator’s ability to regroup to the familiar comfort of the homepage no matter how deep into a website we’ve gone. As users become more fluent in navigating the intricacies of the Web however, having a prominent home button is becoming an unnecessary navigation crutch — a visual obstacle that web designers increasingly eschew.Because primary navigation represents a series of choices that we’re asking users to make, it’s important to only offer the most important content categories as options. By culling the home button from this list, the decision-making process is simplified and we are able to provide an improved user experience.In an increasingly tech-savvy population, the home button is irrelevant to users who easily navigate the average website without it. Reserving it a space in your sites’ primary navigation when the same functionality exists elsewhere is a waste of valuable real estate.When designing a website, a primary consideration is the user experience within the site’s hierarchy. If they can’t easily navigate your website, your customers may lose their place, feel frustrated and leave entirely. If you’re selling products online, this means lowering your conversion rate and possibly revenue. Not only does it take up room that could be used for more important information, but it often adds an unwelcome amount of choice.Customers have a varying level of experience, can be easily distracted, and may need a number of contextual cues to help them keep their place when navigating your site; no matter how small or organized. Therefore, before making changes to your site, you must thoroughly consider the demographics of your user base and their level of understanding toward the web. For example, if your users are predominantly baby boomers, they may need extra guidance where younger users will have no trouble. Despite the advantages of removing the home button, you must be confident that doing so will ease their user experience, not hinder it.So how do you make the leap away from the comforts of a home button? How do we create enough convenience that a visitor doesn’t need to return home, while still providing the sense of security offered by the Home button? There are a few web design strategies that can be easily employed to provide accommodation to all:It has become a standardized web design pattern to make the company’s logo clickable, since that is perhaps the most familiar alternative to a home button for users.Because most sites feature the logo prominently in the header already (typically in the top left or center), this makes a convenient shortcut to return home. The design pattern is even more helpful when a company’s logo is always present on the page, acting as a permanent “home” button.If your site is larger or has a complex hierarchy, you may consider a “breadcrumb trail” to provide users with an indication of where they are within the site’s organization. Breadcrumbs can be used to show your location in a multi-step form, deeply layered navigation, or even when browsing through store items organized or filtered by various categories. The breadcrumbs are links, usually at the top of the webpage, that describe your position in the site’s hierarchy in an unobtrusive fashion. They reveal exactly where you are in the site as you go from page to page, and provide a way to move the amount of steps you wish — even home, if needed.A good example of very traditional breadcrumb navigation is the But it’s not just complex sites that make use of breadcrumbs: The website footer is another trusty standby; the bottom the the page is a place users of all levels of web familiarity know to go to for valuable information. A complete view of the website’s hierarchy can be placed in the footer, or simply a larger subset of the site’s navigation than is offered by the primary navigation — typically including a home button. This approach provides a fallback: even if your users are looking for something not offered in the clear and simple choices of primary navigation, there’s an offering of the website’s structure at the bottom of the page.The mini-site for Good user experience design focuses on creating a successful user journey in order to create engaged and returning visitors, and in the case of an eCommerce site, shoppers. Although there are are many tools to help make conversions more frequent, eliminating unnecessary navigation options such as the home button is an important way to streamline visitors’ journey through your website.Giant organizations such as Amazon, Apple, Twitter, and Wikipedia have done away with their home button because home is not where the primary source of interaction is taking place, but merely a location for featured offers, promotions or a table of contents.Visitors are most likely to return home when they’ve lost their way. Eliminating the home button from your navigation should be just one step along the way towards making the user journey through your site intuitive and frustration-free. Reducing decision-making and cognitive load for your users will help encourage more conversions, purchases, videos watched, articles read, or whatever tasks your site helps visitors complete.Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

“It’s more like submarine warfare. You’re in an unfriendly environment. Any sort of breach in the system or error in your process could cause catastrophic damage from which you and your co-workers are unlikely to recover. You periodically fire things off into a murky void, which may or may not return results, and may or may not accomplish their purpose. And the people who do it for a living tend to spend a lot of time hunched over keyboards in the dark, becoming specialists in arcane tasks, because there’s no other way to get it done.”Hansen is a user experience designer based in Portland, Oregon, describing what it feels like to use a That’s it. But when Hansen compares the user experience of a CLI to sub warfare, he’s speaking as a guy who happens to And you ought to respect it, too, because everything that we take for granted with our cloud-connected laptops and mobile devices — that Twitter refreshes when you pull-to-refresh; that your Amazon item actually gets purchased when you click the orange button on Amazon.com; that Gmail doesn’t flush your messages down the memory hole when you “archive” them — all that coordinated functionality takes place in data centers full of servers managed by people called “system administrators.” And sysadmins use the command line.Hansen used to And why not? Sysadmins are people too. It’s just that their UX stakes are much, much higher. If you or I download a crappy app that makes it cumbersome or confusing to add a filter to a photo, we leave a 1-star review on the App Store, delete it, and life goes on. But if a sysadmin’s software—with its command-line interface—is cumbersome or confusing to use, it puts entire systems at risk. When Gmail goes down for ten minutes, the entire internet freaks out; the difference between those ten minutes of inconvenience and some potentially catastrophic downtime might hinge on the user experience that a sysadmin encounters when solving the problem.You’ve probably heard the oft-quoted A graphically-interfaced app or file system needs a “look and feel” because it is simulating an object that you can physically manipulate. To a sysadmin using a CLI, however, the system is less an object than a Since the point of a command line is to issue—you guessed it—commands under expectations of automatic and precise obedience, some of the usual GUI-based assumptions about computer usability get turned inside out. Instead of ample affordances and rich interactivity — which provide multiple, discoverable, error-tolerant paths to fulfilling the same task — a CLI user wants the opposite: minimal interactivity, maximal precision, and what Hansen calls “silence in success.”“You want to make changes to the state of the system as efficiently as possible,” he says. “That means fewer keystrokes for issuing commands, and no ‘confirmation’ feedback when something executes successfully. The assumption is that the system does exactly what you tell it to.” In other words, the progress bars, green checkboxes, and other real-time reassurances that GUIs provide to users that their actions have been registered by the system are just distracting noise in a CLI. “It would probably make the user annoyed, like there are training wheels that they can’t take off,” Hansen says. Errors are to be reported succinctly and described specifically; otherwise, the system ought to “keep its mouth shut.”“Using the command line is all about controlling a computer at the speed of thought,” Hansen says. “If you can type 100 words per minute, that’s how fast you can make things happen on the command line.” Something as basic as “It’s common just to spray out all the options in alphabetical order, but the first time you encounter it you may not know what you’re looking at, other than a thousand lines of ‘help,’” Hansen explains. “Good documentation will have several examples at the bottom: ‘Hey, you want to perform these five common tasks? Here’s how. Here’s why.’”“What this guy knew he was doing wasn’t saving a file or quitting an application,” Hansen explains, “but murdering a runaway system process with a certain name on a certain machine, all at once. He had all the variables in his head, and he knew the most efficient way to precisely manipulate the state of the system in one stroke.” Like the I write  make films about science, tech, design, math, and other ways that people make things make sense. SciAm, NPR, BBC, TechReview, FastCo, Wired, et alA field guide to the designed world

So I got you to click. I hate to break it to you but there is Swiss designer and entrepreneur, Yves Behar, equates good design to a light switch. An easy flip of the switch is all it should take to turn on the lights. If it’s more complicated than that, it’ll never be widely used.A few months ago, I set out to learn about the theory and practice of user experience, in hopes of answering, “Before jumping into the questions I asked, I want to clear up some of the most common misconceptions starters have about user experience, courtesy of User experience is all of the above, but too many times people focus on the visual aspect— there’s so much more that happens before Secondly, UX is not wire-frames, survey results or prototypes. User Experience is a philosophy that everyone in your organization, big or small needs to have.Jeffrey Zeldman, the King of Web Standards, put it very simply, “I’m an avid reader, so naturally I’m in the middle of 6 books at a time and have 30 tabs open. Since there aren’t that many formal education paths in user experience, I knew this would be a journey of self-education.Chris: We are the ones responsible for delivering a great experience to the users. We are the people who advocate for the people. We make it intuitive and useful. We make it valuable, and desirable. We make it memorable.What really struck me was the simplicity and profundity of Chris’ answer. Not only did he sum up user experience in a few words, but he made the Chris: Since then, I’ve really come to enjoy UXMatters and Chris: One of the key ideas I’ve taken away from our conversation: If your questions are more effective, your ROI per minute will be much higher. Less time needed to understand the project + less time spent in meetings = more time to work on the user experience.C: Imagine three circles. We’ll label them “business, people, and technology.” They each intersect in the middle, and each represent a crucial part in the the design process. When designing a project you need to keep each of these in mind, and inherently understand each of these elements and how they interact with the others. You see, each of elements depend on each other, and the middle represents the tension and “problem-space” between them. Most UXers use a similar diagram and the overlap represents the solutions — but that’s like saying, “something magical happens here.” We must first articulate the problem before we can hope to uncover the solutions.For example, the business manager will say that they can only spend $15,000 on the product and it needs to be done in three weeks. The developer will say that in order to implement What I didn’t know at the time, is that I’d have ten meetings since our first time speaking. Chris has personally guided me and answered all my questions on an ongoing basis. He’s a good mentor, but an even better friend. Thanks Chris!I am an interaction designer in NYC. Check out P.S. Check out the UX Designer | Life Hacker | Blogger | Craft Beer drinker

В мире интерфейсов есть буквально все — от 1С-подобных монстров, выпячивающих наружу свое устройство и говорящих “меня делал программист”до хипстерских мобильных приложений с единственной функцией и красивым зацикленным видео на фоне. С развитием нашей профессии и проникновением UX методик в разработку в различных индустриях, интерфейсы становятся более осмысленными, более человекоориентированными, с пониманием целей, контекста и деятельности людей. Но иногда дизайнеры заигрываются. Вооружившись, как им кажется, беспроигрышными методиками, начинают ощущать себя всемогущими, способными знать все о своих пользователях; способных предугадать их желания и потребности в каждый момент времени. Но это обманчивое чувство.В современных интерфейсах есть тенденция автоматизировать процесс взаимодействия по-максимуму. Например, решать за человека, что ему надо, и совершать действие за него. Иногда это прекрасно, например, автоматическое заполнение полей в браузере или автоматический доводчик дверей на автомобиле. Но иногда человеку нужно дать немного больше свободы и больше информации.Гугл карты не имеют Вы можете сказать, что я придираюсь. Что диаметр Москвы можно просто погуглить. Но это лишь частный пример. Карты потрясающий инструмент. Это инструмент исследователя. И исследования могут поощряться, а могут загоняться в рамки вымученных в лабораторных условиях сценариев.Мобильная версия Гугл карт уверена, что перемещаться к нужной точке на карте я буду только по указаниям навигатора: пешком, неся в руках телефон, смотря на его экран и слепо следуя его указаниям. Здесь, в стране, где иной раз доставать из кармана телефон опасно.Приложение не дает мне сориентироваться в пространстве с помощью простой направляющей стрелки (без нудного процесса установки маршрута) и таким образом не дает возможности самому определить в каком направлении мне двигаться. Если вы выйдете из метро и вам надо сориентироваться в пространстве, то вам нужно пройти метров 30 в какую-либо сторону. Тогда по смещению точки вы поймете направление.Еще мобильные карты любят при уже построенном маршруте не сообщать расстояние до конечного пункта. Они думают, что мне достаточно указания времени (которое я понятия не имею, как они считают. Может я бежать хотел?)Производители моего автомобиля думают, что мне не нужно знать заряд аккумулятора. Но эта информация меня сильно выручила бы в непредвиденных обстоятельствах, в которые я попал по дороге из Минска в Ижевск на зимней трассе, и к которым привело несколько диких случайностей.Я не за то, чтобы превращать приборную панель семейного седана в кокпит самолета, но у современного автомобильного интерфейса мог бы найтись способ показать мне заряд аккумулятора, когда это критично, я в это верю. Иногда автомобильные производители доходят до логики “если ты сломался — вызывай эвакуатор”. Но часто это бывает невозможно, и ситуация из простой неприятности становится большой проблемой.В жизни все складывается далеко не так, как планируют проектировщики. И в таких ситуациях нужны дополнительные средства, чтобы человек мог действовать согласно обстановке. Ведь в конце концов наша цель помогать человеку в решении его задач и проблем.Впервые я столкнулся с этой мыслью не по своей воле. Я проектировал фичу для проекта World of Tanks и один GUI элемент у меня вызывал спорные ощущения. Я обратился за помощью к коллеге Антону Артемову. Он, по своему обыкновению пустился в объяснения, начиная издалека. Я запомнил только начало: “если он является инструментом, то…” После этой фразы я потерял нить и мало что понял. Позже, когда я начал разбираться в потрохах интерфейсов и стал проектировать устройство GUI системы “танков” заново, я вдруг “догнал”, что он говорил.“Инструмент” — в моей интерпретации для данной статьи — это сущность интерфейса, которая обладает определенной функциональностью и может использоваться в разных частях системы, в разных контекстах, сохраняя свою суть. Например, спотлайт в маке — это инструмент, линейка в картах Яндекса — тоже. Особенность “инструмента” в том, что он в определенной мере универсален и отчуждаем и предоставляет человеку функциональность или данные, которые тот может использовать по своему усмотрению. “Инструменты” обычно покрывают полноценные крупные сценарии взаимодействия, а чаще являются вспомогательными.Современные игры — это огромные вселенные со своими законами и правилами. Разработчики часто даже близко не могут предположить, что игроки делают в этом мире. Как именно они используют все инструменты, которые у них есть. Это важно учитывать при разработке и давать им те инструменты, которые смогут с одной стороны облегчить жизнь, но с другой — сохранить в людях жажду к исследованиям и творчеству. В равной степени это касается и реальной жизни.Я хотел бы, чтобы проектировщики и дизайнеры при создании продуктов думали об этом тонком аспекте и пытались найти баланс между желанием принять все решения за человека и возможностью человеку самому решить, что для него лучше. Иногда стоит дать больше свободы и инструментов, и тогда, возможно, ваш проект приобретет дополнительную ценность, о которой вы не могли даже догадываться.UX designer

2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. В этом году я задался целью помочь людям освоить UX. Многие из вас, вероятно, нашли этот блог, когда проходили Постойте, давайте на секундочку притормозим и поговорим о Только секундочку!Неважно, что мы обсуждаем: психологию UX-дизайн может влиять на мозг пользователя множеством предсказуемых способов. Именно этому мы и научимся.Итак, 31 урок о мозге через призму дизайна. Все их можно в любое время применить на практике. Никакой истории, кроме случаев, когда без нее — никак. Никакой философии, потому что это не мой стиль. И никакого Зигмунда Фрейда, потому что Здесь только то, что вам Ответ: Следовательно, чем лучше вы понимаете чувства, мысли и действия пользователей, тем круче вы как дизайнер.Понимание психологии подскажет вам ответы на вопросы: что заставляет людей нажимать на кнопку “поделиться”? Или почему они не всегда выбирают наиболее дешевый вариант? Или почему дизайн, который получил 200 “лайков” на Dribbble.com, на деле — отстойнее некуда?(Да, это случается. И, вообще-то говоря, достаточно часто.)Ответы могут вас удивить! Интуиция врет вам все время. Через 30 уроков мы узнаем об этом больше.А иногда два человека могут воспринимать один и тот же дизайн совершенно по-разному. Об этом мы тоже узнаем.А еще некоторые вещи, которые кажутся нам супер-личными, на самом деле происходят в жизни каждого человека. Мы узнаем и об этом.Выпустили Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

The UX industry places an enormous emphasis on usability. User stories, site maps, wireframes, and usability testing get all the limelight — while visual design fades into obscurity. But in my experience, aesthetics plays an important part in almost every user’s experience of a product.I work at Illumina, a life sciences company in San Diego, California. We’re on a mission to advance human health by unlocking the power of the genome. As a UX designer, my job is to make complex science easier to understand and visualize. While our team works through the functional aspects of a design, I obsess over the visual details — particularly how they can improve those functional elements.And this isn’t just a personal obsession. Studies have shown that Gestalt psychology offers one explanation for this: people perceive the entirety of a thing before they see their individual parts. So before they focus in on the details of what this button does or what this form is asking, they get an overall aesthetic impression. And if the page is beautiful, that impression’s going to be a good one.With all that in mind, here are 8 principles of Gestalt psychology you can use to improve usability through better visual design.The principle of proximity states that people perceive objects near each other as a single unit. And there’s no better way to control horizontal proximity than through a well-designed grid system.Personally, I love the 12-column grid included with The principle of similarity states that we tend to groups objects that have similar shape, color, and shadows. This gives us the perfect justification to turn these similar elements into their own design patterns.One popular design pattern that’s really easy to incorporate is the card. Simply identify a key component in your app, then present it as a card. When the user sees that shape and style a second, third, and fourth time, they’ll recognize it that much easier.Do you need to represent a project in your app? Use a card. Maybe shape it like a file folder. Have a photo to represent? Use a card, maybe make it look like an old Polaroid.The principle of closure tells us that we perceive objects as being whole even when they’re incomplete — which comes in handy when you’re working around the page fold.If your content extends below the infamous “page fold,” don’t worry if it looks obviously cropped. When a user sees the cropped content, they’ll naturally scroll to complete the shape formed in their minds. Of course, you’ll need to make sure the content you’re cropping fits a particular shape (like a box or block of text), so they users know what to anticipate.The principle of closure shows that we don’t have to show all the information. Instead, let the user’s eye fill in the remainder, and lead them towards further exploration.The principle of symmetry says that it’s perceptually pleasing to divide objects into an even number of symmetrical parts. I love this concept because it’s so simple, but so helpful.I recently designed a user management screen with very little content on it, leaving me an abundance of white space. Instead of slapping the content in the middle of the screen, I set it to the left and balanced it with help text on the right. Since our eyes naturally seek balance, the principle of symmetry can help us communicate in more stable, consistent, and harmonic ways.The principle of common fate states that we perceive objects as lines that move in the same direction. This is one reason adding animations to design can be really beneficial.A menu that slides in from the side of a page demonstrates a relationship between all the links in that menu through their synchronized movement. The principle of common fate helps users connect various components of your design.The principle of continuity states that we consider objects grouped if they’re aligned within an object.Sometimes, several components may stretch across the entire width of the screen. At a glance, their connection might not be obvious, even if they’re perfectly aligned. To make it more obvious, connect them with a subtle line to draw the user’s eye. The principle of continuity allows a design to be read easily, like lines from a paragraph of text.The principle of good gestalt says that Flat design doesn’t rely on heavy drop shadows, extreme gradients, or complex lighting effects, all of which can distract users from their purpose. Instead of thinking about what clicking a button will do, they can get up in irrelevant questions like: What material is that button? Is it glass or metal? How many lights are shining on it? What direction are they shining from? Does that shadow correspond to the angle of light? Following the principle of good gestalt will help your designs communicate more effectively through simplicity.The principle of past experience states that elements that were grouped together in the past will be seen that way in the future. This explains the value of consistency in design.Let’s say you place your next and cancel buttons in a particular area of a dialog window. If their position change across screens (for example, they are flipped), the user might perform the wrong action (such as closing a document without saving it). By following some fundamental principles of Gestalt, we can better understand what makes certain designs so pleasing and effective. Personally, I find it reassuring that every human being has a natural ability to identify great design and great experiences. It’s our job as designers to tap into this ability. While usability is extremely important, it isn’t the whole equation.Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

The other day I was in a taxi on my way to a meeting and Whatsapping with my wife while doing some I accidentally clicked on the notification banner, which launched Whatsapp and took me out of the “Add Expense” screen. I got pissed off so I forgot about answering my wife at that moment and tried to get back to my expense screen. I reached my destination at that exact moment, and forgot to fill out the expense and answer my wife altogether.Result: Angry wife and holes in budget.So as I do whenever I’m angry — I open up Photoshop. Well, actually my “And then Photoshop. Here’s the first outcome:There are two main types of notifications that we all know well:I don’t even want to get started with the “stop everything and watch me” notifications.They make you stop whatever you were doing, thus detaching you from your current state of mind. And of course you can’t be so impolite as to to not answer a message shown to you in this royal format.If we would have had just a simple “quick reply” field…So, let’s move on to the real problem…3. 4. Lets add basic transitions and interaction options which will make it easy to get rid of the banners faster and also make interacting with them more intuitive.Yay! No accidental tapping!This could be faster or slower of course, the transition could be tweaked but you get the point.I don’t know about you guys, but i actually am trying to better my life by focusing on living the moment and not being caught up in the crazy multi-interruptive world we live in (btw — big shout out to the I’m fed up with all the communication overflow I have from my devices. Lets face it — there are too many of them.I want to live the moment. I want to focus at one thing at a time. I want to live in the present and not let interfaces and OS’s I use take control of my life.So I came up with a simple concept for a new kind of notification. I call it “Zen Notification”.The concept is simple:You still know you got a message — but you can finish whatever you’re doing and only then take care of reacting to that message. Also this doesn’t make you feel bad about not answering as much as when you see the actual content of the message.Apple is not going to change this so soon (if you work at apple and you see this — please… please show this to your team and have a discussion about this).So what can we do right away in order to reduce banner notification frustration around the world?Well folks, the answer is simple — just add actionable buttons on the bottom.All of the concepts above were brought up as suggestions. With this post I wanted to create a discussion and some food for thought. So if I managed to do that with you — and if you have any other suggestions or feedback — let me know in the comments and you’re most welcome to Yours truly,Director of Product Design Some of our posts from Hacking UI Magazine. Visit HackingUI.com and be sure to sign up for our weekly newsletter for updates.

On April 17, 2013, ‘Even the British prime minister David Cameron — with his extensive digital design knowledge — said the site was “an example of world class design talent” and enhanced “the modern relationship between the public and government”.Upon reading the news, of course I thought it was a vicious prank, perhaps put about by the award show as an early April fools joke, but my colleagues assured me this is for real.Like any doctor giving an obviously faulty diagnosis, I decided to get a second opinion. I asked my beloved what she thought of this She took a quick glance, and closed the browser window.“Hmm, odd behaviour” I thought to my self.After reopening the site she yelped with dismay: “Oh, is this the right link?”Yes, yes it is…I asked her why she closed the browser and her reason was plain:“I thought it was one of those missing URL error pages with the big search box and links… you know?”Bless her heart, she innocently and accurately described what has gone so awfully wrong — not just with gov.uk and all it’s hideousness — but with design today in general.As far as I can tell, this is the fault of people like myself who lay hold of the disastrous, insulting, pretentious, conceptually invalid and potentially apocalyptic job title of “UX consultant”, or “UX expert, or “UX specialist”, or “UX whatever”...For the past half decade, many individuals claiming such titles (very often fraudulently) have weaselled their way into the industry with no design experience whatsoever, and Im afraid to say, it’s now showing.Who would have thought that a website that looks as if it hasnt yet left the wire-framing phase would pick up the “design of the year award”. What better way to tarnish the design industry and to reduce it to such a low than to hold in highest regard websites that look as though they’re only half finished?Imagine for a moment these design principles weve established in the digital space if applied to other industries. It’s entirely possible Ford may pick up gold for the 2015 Focus:Design Museum director Deyan Sudjic said the site was “the Paul Smith (fashion designer) of websites”. And just as the fashion industry seems to sport ripped trousers, cut off pants and other bizarre phenomena that nobody of any sanity think’s is visually pleasing — so too is our design aesthetic succumbing to something so nauseating and predictable that it bores even me.And yes — before industry gurus jump all over me — I realise this is a Ive been designing digital stuff for the past decade, and even occasionally have business cards scattered across my desk that display the rather embarrassing and vague title of “UX consultant”.Up until today, Ive been relatively reassured with where our industry was headed; the rising importance of user-centric design, responsive design, mobile first — it’s all quite exciting stuff for an industry that not so long ago consisted of a mass of ego-centric and self-gratified designers spilling phrases such as “man, that looks ace” and “flash animation is sick” and “I put it there cos it looks awesome”.But I fear things have gone too far. I don’t want the web to devolve. Just as I don’t want padded motorways to cater for my grandmothers’ deteriorating vision, I don’t want all websites to look as if they’ve been designed by my 10 year old nephew who just found PowerPoint.Put some effort in. Make it nice. Ugliness doesn’t sell, it never has. I urge the industry to keep these people (“UX insert whatever you want here”) away from Photoshop, or Fireworks, or Keynote, or Powerpoint, or whatever it is they use to — I won’t call it — ‘UX director. Writing about the things that rile me.

Adam Plona (You probably know the story about the forty shades of blue. This is an experiment organized in 2009 by Marissa Mayer, then product manager at Google, today the CEO of Yahoo. Earlier, Google had been using two shades of blue color for links — one for the search engine, and a different one for email. Unable to pick just one, Mayer decided to test 41 shades of this color. So, a 2,5% sample of Google search engine users was divided into groups. Google showed each group the links in different colors. After several weeks, the winning color was picked. The most clickable color, Mayer said, was slightly closer to purple than green.For the next several years web designers and product managers used this example as proof of Google taking its love of data too far. After all, it does seem excessive to test 40 shades of blue. But in early 2014, Dan Cobley, the managing director of Google’s UK division, Again. 200 million.Today, Google organizes more than 7000 A/B tests per year. Every UX designer knows that Booking.com conducts a thousand concurrent tests. A/B tests are used by the world’s leading politicians. For example, I don’t know about you, but I can vividly remember times when the development of internet products was based on something very different. On intuition, convictions, book examples and common practice. Nobody asked whether the designed change had been tested prior to implementation. Today that would be unprofessional, especially in large organizations. Today, to change something, we need to back it up with numbers, or at least with a qualitative study report. If the test turns out well, you implement. If not — tough luck.To put it briefly — instead of wandering in the fog, now we rely on hard data. We’re all neophytes of the data-driven philosophy. And neophytes are always uncritical and to disregard the weaknesses of their religion. And that’s what I wanted to discuss today. Let’s begin.An automated activity acquired in the course of frequent repetition. This simple word is fundamental to every UX designer or product manager. It’s because every interface is a nest of such habits. Every website, app, internet product is an incubator of habits.When you go on Facebook, you no longer think where to check for notifications or how to write a new post. You see something interesting and you want to take a photo with your phone and then upload it to Instagram? Sounds banal, but in fact it’s quite a complicates series of activities. But those who use Instagram do it almost automatically.Every UX designer knows that there are also global habits, which our industry refers to as conventions or design patterns. It’s thanks to them, among other things, that in a new website you always look for the search bar in the upper right corner of the page, and for the logo in the left.Habits can be really helpful in our daily lives. Sometimes, they can also make it so much more colorful. If you’re like me and you ever wanted to sent a hot text to your girlfriend, but you habitually picked the first person from the recent recipients list and… it turned out to be your mom, then you know what I’m talking about ☺Habits can be considered loops. This is the visualization proposed by Charles Duhigg in his otherwise very good book “Habits are established when we repeat an activity often enough. So if you often use an internet website, read the news on your favorite portal, check the game results, or just look at the weather for tomorrow — sooner or later you’ll form at least a dozen habits.Simple. Nothing controversial or innovative.But the fun starts when a forced change occurs in the habit. And here’s where we come in — the people who create internet products. Every one of us — through project decisions — has the power to influence the habits of our users, specifically the main element of the habit loop — the routine.Let me use an example that I gave at the And what happened? The test showed that the icon that replaced the mail icon next to the search bar generated most clicks in each variant. It always worked best. What doest that mean? It means that users used that element from memory. They clicked a familiar place, not noticing that the icon and its name had changed.You probably already know what we were dealing with. A habit. And we influenced it, quite inadvertently, by changing the standard placement of the mail icon.Every time we want to test any change in any system that will influence the user’s habit, we can be sure that tests will not tell us whether what we want to change is better or worse than the previous solution. The test results will probably be surprising, but they won’t give us an answer, or the answer will be negative.This was our case — we suddenly found that in the tested variants, the number of clicks on the mail icon dropped dramatically. We were wondering where those clicks had gone when we noticed the unusual behavior of the icon next to the search bar. We then understood that we had stepped on a habit’s toe.You could say: “you should just test the interface change long enough”. Long enough for users to change their habit and only then check whether the change is better or worse than the current solution.I’m sure you heard that 21 days is all you need to shape a new habit or change an existing one. This myth is a misinterpretation of studies conducted by plastic surgeon Maxwell Maltz. In 1960 he published a book entitled “This was followed by an outpouring of all sorts of guides on how to change any habit within 21 days. However, it is easy to miss one important part of Maltz’s writing — the words “a minimum of”.In 2009, doctor Phillippa Lally, a health psychologist at the University College London Indeed, those who wanted to make a habit of drinking a glass of water with lunch, were able to form that habit within around 20 days. However, those who chose a more difficult habit — eating fruit for lunch — needed as many as 40 days. To shape the habit of taking a 10-minute walk after breakfast, the subjects needed 50 days, and getting used to doing squats after morning coffee required 84 days.Doctor Lally’s subjects needed between 18 and even 254 days to form a habit. On average, it took 66 days. But doctor Lally’s main conclusion was that shaping habits is a highly personal characteristic and it is impossible to predict the duration of the process.It is true that by performing a sufficiently long test we would be able to remove the influence of habit change on results. But in a business reality this is a pipe dream. Who has the time to test a single element for three weeks? Not to mention 66 days, which is over two months. What about time-to-market, ASAPs and deadlines? And even if we took tests that long, we would not be sure that enough time had passed.Any change of an important part of an interface carries one more risk.If you’ve ever been involved in a large internet service, one with millions of users, you surely know how people react to major change.What you see are user reactions to recent redesigns of several major Polish portals, including our Wirtualna Polska. Why all the rejection and anger?The culprit is a phenomenon described by psychiatrist Elizabeth Kübler-Ross. It can be simplified and visualized with the so-called It illustrates how people react to major breakthroughs, revolutions and change. This psychological mechanism works every time, although in different intensity. For this reason the model is widely used in business in change management: when the CEO is replaced, when the team is downsized, etc.When we show users the new layout of their favorite service or when we significantly change the way it works, we place them on the same psychological rollercoaster. Users, especially hard users, gradually go from denial and anger to acceptance and involvement, and their attitude to change changes over time from extremely negative to positive.Loyal users invest a lot of time in learning the current interface. They use it very efficiently and can quickly achieve their goals within it. Check their mail, share photos, send texts or simply read articles in their favorite section. When change occurs, their whole investment goes down the drain. They need time understand and appreciate the improvement we implemented. They need to move the next step on the change curve.When we design a major change and want to test it, our subjects in one of the first two phases.Their service is about to change. Their investment is about to be lost. This makes their opinions or behaviors unfit to serve as the foundation for a decisive evaluation of whether the thing we want to do is a change for the better or worse. Most subjects, if they had used our product earlier, will be dissatisfied.1) Facebook. Look, the same process is repeated every few years. Every subsequent change in the layout or the way the news feed works causes a very similar reaction.Protest. Petitions. Demands to revert to the previous. Threats to delete accounts. Users who protested in 2006 gradually got used to the new news feed. When Zuckerberg changed it again, they protested again in 2009. Around 18 months later the change curve worked once more. The users entered the acceptance phase. But Facebook changed yet again, and we had a rerun of the same old show in 2011. And the same will happen with the next change.2) Remember when Google introduced the new search mechanism, the Instant Search, where results appear as you type your query in the search field? Users protested. Here’s one of them. Today we don’t even notice the mechanism.3) And Microsoft. I remember well the wave of hate that charged through the Internet when the Redmond giant implemented to so-called ribbon navigation in Office. Everyone protested, myself included. I was used to the old interface which I knew inside out. That change killed most of my habits. Today I don’t have any problems with the new interface. I can even say I like it.The process of transforming habit and reacting to change are two elements contributing to the biggest problem in tests and studies:Don’t get me wrong. A/B tests are a great tool to test interface changes that do not modify user habits. Habits that do not invalidate their current investment in learning the system. It is In those cases, tests and studies are just a tool to predict short term risk. They let us know what the first reaction of the users will be, how many hits we will lose, how many people will be disappointed, by how much will our revenue fall in the first weeks after the change. However, they won’t tell us much about long term change. About what will happen when users move on to the next stages on the change curve: acceptance and engagement. Will it be better or worse? This the tests will not show. What they will usually show is just the depth of the first wave of dissatisfaction.Tests and studies only tell part of the truth. They don’t say what’s better or worse, they won’t tell you to implement or not implement. They serve as early warning signs, but they don’t provide final answers. We are alone in our assessment of long-term effects.If we’re certain that the change we’re introducing will improve our product and business, we should not rely on tests because they will lead us astray into what’s referred to as incrementalism. They will encourage us to implemented hundreds, thousands of small changes, none of which make a radical change, but will just optimize our interface. And then we’ll reach the local maximum and won’t be able to squeeze more out of our product, service or application. We’ll need radical change. And to implement that, we need to look differently at the results of tests and studies.Steve Jobs was of a similar opinion. Today even companies famous for their data focus realize that intuition and vision are equally as important as incremental optimizations.It’s almost certain that your work will at one point or another require you to make a serious, big, revolutionary change. It will be necessary to keep your product growing. Such change always involves risk. It cannot be studied, it has to be carried. You have to face the problem of adoption.Director of Product Development at Wirtualna Polska (wp.pl), the biggest Polish online media company.

Becoming who you are: Women in tech / UX: A brief correspondenceRachel —Short answer: How? Show up. Appoint yourself, don’t wait to be appointed. Blog. Tweet. Slightly longer answer, particularly with To learn it, add it to your job if you can, or do it on your own. At your job, while you’re meeting and exceeding expectations for your role, learn about and act on the things you also want to do, and then use them to improve and help the product and the company. For a developer, that could mean learning new languages. For me, that meant doing content strategy but learning about information architecture and all the aspects of As for the human issues of tech women at work — the whole “I’m the only woman who’s a developer, and the other developers don’t invite me to lunch” thing —that’s a math problem; being one of many is always easier than being one of one. More women = problem solved. (See also Being known in communities — inside your field and across fields — starts with participation: online, in person, wherever and however much, across which platforms is comfortable for you. If you are near Meetups or mixers, go to them; if you aren’t, start them. Repeat.So,Related:1. experience architecture = ux + ixd + ia + content strategy #becauseawesome how, when, where, why, who

When I started writing this story I did some digging through my travel photos to add here and realized that I don’t really have any where I’m actually sitting and working during my travels. Why?Working while traveling as a backpacker vs. a vacationer often doesn’t fit into the “Dream Lifestyle” image at all — e.g. with your laptop on a beach with a colorful cocktail in your hand. While (as I learned) it’s perfectly possible to work from anywhere, it often is an adventure on its own — try working when there are constant power blackouts and the only place with power generator is on the other side of town; try working when a team of monkeys has conspired to steal your belongings; try working when the smells, the noises and the heat are cooking your brains up.The idea of making money wherever you are and anytime you want/need may seem perfect. “Dream Lifestyle” is what my lifestyle has often been called. But is it? See for yourself.Temperatures in the afternoons drop to 8C/48F in winter months which is not bad if you have the heating on. The problem is that the majority of affordable accommodation in Sa Pa doesn’t have the heating and the design of the rooms includes quarter size cracks in the outside facing walls.The views from your work space are so gorgeous that you almost forget the discomforts of wearing 3 sweaters, 2 pairs of socks, 2 scarves, gloves and trying to keep your shivering to a manageable level.In the rainy season Siem Reap gets violent rainstorms and floods that often damage the electric wires. The electric company in Siem Reap is a team of true pro-activists. At the first notion of potential rainstorm they shut down the electricity for the entire town. If it happens to be the moment you’re uploading your very time-sensitive designs for your client — your only solution is to go try a couple of places in town that have power generators.Most buildings in Varanasi have roof terraces. The views over Ganges, The Holy River, are stunning, but the monkeys that hang out on these roofs are real hooligans. Your wonderful design sketches and user flows might go missing in the matter of seconds.My normal answers to the very frequent clients’ question “What’s that sound?” during Skype meetings were:- “Oh, that’s just evening prayer at the local mosque”Good thing the question “What’s that smell?” wasn’t going to come up.Like in any place so remote you’d benefit from the break from the Internet. In El Nido this break is enforced — the electricity works only at night and for some hours in the evening. So whatever was your “I’ll do some work on the beach” plan — it will have to wait.6am yoga  meditation, vegetarian food 3 times a day, planting, fixing and composting works in the jungle, people with inspiring stories who find pleasure in volunteering together for the higher cause — it all brings you an incredible peace of mind.During the hours of free time at the farm I worked on the next version of my ……………………………………………………………………………………………………Regardless of some occasional difficulties and comic situations related to traveling and freelancing I thoroughly enjoy my lifestyle and I’m happy I have my husband to make this lifestyle a shared one. I’ve also been fortunate enough to have good, longterm relationships with my clients who are either as adventurous as I am or are truly fascinated by what I do.More places, stories and adventures get published in the UX designer and long term digital nomad. Also, founder of 

Design teams that handle user experience and user interface will know; when working on an MVP (Minimum Viable Product), we are often on tight deadlines, have limited resources, and a great need to test and iterate.At Until recently, popular UX tools have been common sense. However they are not free of hiccups:In the past few months, as we worked towards creating a more efficient workflow, we discovered and adopted brand new tools and techniques. This flow may not apply to every design team. We are an agency that handles both UX and UI so it works out perfectly for us, boosting our speed and design quality, especially working on MVPs.First we start with We use Illustrator and fireworks (when applicable) for wireframing. Starting with basic wireframes, we iterate towards a complete experience and interface.We start building a prototype with our first set of wireframes, simulating basic user interactions and navigation steps.Our prototypes are automatically updated and synced with Meanwhile, we define We iterate both on the UX and UI simultaneously. Flat design principles and new trends towards eliminating UI clutter worked in our favor to develop this method. Especially for the MVP’s, we design with development in mind, avoiding design decisions that would require additional development time and effort.Creative Director, Co-founder 

If you’re in the process of creating a website or application, and run into a problem, it’s important to stop and take a step back. As well as looking beautiful and functioning effectively, a product should also provide users with an experience perfectly suited to their needs.By failing to understand your users and their expectations, you can end up wasting both your internal resources and your clients’ money.That’s why we use product design sprints to test a client’s idea or answer their critical business questions. It’s now a choice tool in our repertoire when working with a new client. It helps us to set a direction, anticipate and avoid problems, and reduce wasted time, money, and effort.Pioneered by Google Ventures, product design sprints are a process we started using early in 2015. They’ve been highly successful at refining the work we do for our clients, invaluable for new businesses, websites, and products. They enable us to validate new products and avoid potentially costly problems down the line.In one week, we come to understand what the problem is, come up with solutions, and create a prototype to validate them. Through this process, we are able to achieve a number of core goals, including:The week is intense and insightful; and we quickly identify what works and what doesn’t. From there, we can make the right recommendations to get the client’s product on the right track.So, how do you hold a design sprint for your next project?Design sprints are run in one-week cycles. From our experience, we believe a single sprint can validate most user experience problems. With only 5 working days, we need to make sure every hour counts. You’ll need to gather the right stakeholders, and, for the duration, there should be 100% commitment.When we run a product design sprint, we always include a designer, a developer and, most importantly, a facilitator to lead the process.From the client, we would aim to include a product owner (the person able to make decisions) and ideally stakeholders representing key areas such as Customer Service, Marketing, IT, and Finance. Who attends is entirely dependent on your business, but the key decision maker must be included and all attendees must be present for the entire sprint.Finally, we need a big room with lots of whiteboards and space for brainstorming, paper, post-it notes to be stuck up everywhere. This can be either here at our offices, or at our customer’s location.Each day we focus on a new aspect in order to meet the end goal:Day one focuses on understanding the main goal of the project or problem we are trying to solve, and identifying who the users are and what they want from the product. We throw around any ideas, analyse existing products and look at what competitors are doing. We then look at the primary user journey and decide what areas are going to be focused on for the rest of the week.Day two is all about individuals coming up with ideas of their own. At this stage, there are no bad ideas! We use processes such as note taking, mind maps, crazy 8s, and storyboarding. Nothing is too small to be explored: we once came up with 160 different ways of carrying out search.Day three is all about pulling together everything identified on days one and two, and making decisions. We analyse the merits and critique the flaws of each idea. Following this, we use We make a list of all the assumptions that we want to test on day five with the prototype and, as a group, decide on the exact elements we want to test in the prototype on day five. We then draw these up on the board as wireframes.Day four focuses on two things. Firstly, the prototypes that the designer builds, which are based on the wireframes established on day three. This ensures that everyone in the room is sure about the exact functionality that will be expected in the prototype when it is tested on day five.Secondly, as a group we decide on the test script. This contains the guidance, questions, and tasks read out to users, which all hone in on the assumptions we want to validate on day 5.A couple of important things to remember: It’s not meant to look pretty, it’s not meant to be perfect, and it’s not meant to be hung up on branding. We maximise the usefulness of our time by focusing on the parts which are critical for a user to review and which give us those important insights.Day five is all about bringing in real users. During the planning stages, we carry out research to identify a group of users who can put your designs and mock product to the test.We recruit users in a number of different ways; but it is important that we get the To get the best variety in results, we tend to aim for at least half a dozen users to carry out the testing.At Degree 53, we have testing facilities set up allowing us to record what is happening on the device, how users are interacting with the prototype, and the user themselves. In another room, the stakeholders watch this as it happens.The facilitator is the only person present with the user. The facilitator will take them through the test script paying close attention to the user’s actions. From our experience, the majority of people will say that they like the product. This is why monitoring exactly what the users does, rather than what they say, is the most important aspect of user testing.This is by far the most exciting part of the design sprint, as it helps stakeholders decide whether they want to bring the product to life, refine or change the concept, or scrap the idea completely. (That’s probably not as exciting, but at least they haven’t gone through developing a product without seeing results.)Whatever the outcome of the design sprint, stakeholders will ultimately have a much clearer idea of how they can solve a digital problem or if their new business idea is heading in the right direction. Within just five days, we are able to create a working prototype, with real user feedback and any criticisms and constructive feedback can be used to make a decision.So why do we love design sprints? In just five days, we can achieve an outcome which could normally take months. It condenses everything down to the basics, and gives us an understanding of exactly what we need to do.Try one for yourself.Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

UX — short for user experience design — is an aspirational term. As designers, we should aspire to craft products that affect a positive experience for our users. UX is a relatively new term, one borne of an evolution from earlier phrases that roll off the tongue a little less easily, idioms like What sets UX apart from its predecessors, however, is that graphic designers — particularly those who design for the web or software products — did not previously refer to themselves as web We’ve seen this happen time and again, a term first becomes trendy, then part of industry lexicon and, before you know it, everyone has updated their portfolios and LinkedIn profiles to include it. The issue I have with UX, however, is that its present day use threatens to undermine the meaning of Simply put, I do not want UX to become forever synonymous with UI; yet another way to communicate that you’re in the business of user interface design for the web or software products. If UX is the latest colloquial evolution used to impart a human centered approach to design, as designers, we must insist that such a process is in place. Implicit in the suggestion that our approach to design is user centered is the assertion that we have validated the user experience of a product through research, synthesis, user testing and iterative prototyping.Without a process in place by which to validate design decisions and inform further design direction through user testing and subsequent iteration, a designer is really only doing their best guesswork. Further, once this guesswork is published, the designer can only be reactive in modifying their effort as needed via submitted feedback from users or openly published critique. This manner of reactive adaptation is neither a process, nor does it justify the designation, The solution, I believe, is simple: the more designers who are interested in crafting user experiences familiarize themselves with, and begin adhering to, a truly user centered process in their work, the more meaning we will subsequently reinvest in the term, UX. And there are no shortage of freely available resources to assist designers in educating themselves in this arena. Much has been published and shared on varying approaches to, and thinking around, these processes:As designers, we must be deliberate in how we talk about the work that we do. And, in designing user experiences, we should adhere to processes that ensure we’ve arrived at an empathy for our user via an understanding of their experience; one that best equips us to design the most appropriate solution for the real world challenges our users face.Through the sharing of our thinking and ideas, we can work as a community of minds to craft the best experiences we’re able — those that better the lives of all our users — and, in turn, become the most expert and capable UX designers we know ourselves to be.Designer “It doesn’t occur to most people that everything is designed” — Bill Moggridge

Apparently, the state of UX Design is UI Design. In his piece Morten tries to gloss over this debate leaving me hopeful. He explains in the beginning of the article that there are at least 2 sides to the UX/UI debate but then seemingly unwittingly, he actually clearly articulated the real nature of UX at its current state and scale — that the vast majority of the conversation is focused on the creation and validation and production of interfaces. Even his attempt to juxtapose interactions design (IxD) and UI design as separate pieces of the puzzle fails because he misses the weight and value of IxD beyond flow. This just leaves us thinking that IxD itself is little more than flow, again a shallow description of a rich discipline filled with a apocrypha of literatureMorten’s attempt to give us a positive state of UX Design actually is the embodiment of what is both exciting and what is so very wrong with the state of UX today. On the one hand, Morten is right that for UI Design and the pieces of the UX umbrella that most closely focus on the UI the times are rich and getting richer.Where things are still growing and need much more focus are on the areas of the design puzzle upstream from the UI. The foundations: (Jesse James Garrett’s Elements of Experience Design)We are leaving behind what the real meaning of a full stack UX Designer means — someone who can work THIS stack or a solid chunk of it. There was no mention of research, strategy, planning, understanding in Morten’s article and in this omission we see the real state of UX Design today. In it, we see a UX Design devoid of empathy, focused on tactics, and shallow in purpose, direction, and vision.The good news is that there are lots of good people putting up a solid fight against this trend. The folks at If there is indeed a state of UX to be written it needs to be deeper, richer, and more complete about our entire sphere of practice otherwise there truly is no UX. It is really just validated UI design. This forgets that there are two sides to UX Design:Getting to the right design … and … getting the design right.Morten’s state of UX Design is focused on the latter. And accidentally he is correct because today in 2015 we are focused on getting the design right, on micro-iterating our way to good enough — beautiful, amoral, and sometimes even valuable.Dave Malouf is the Principal Experience Strategist at HP Helion Cloud. He loves designing, traveling, teaching, observing, and playing.

A few weeks ago, I found myself in a darkened theater watching a summer blockbuster. Although the movie was ostensibly about dinosaurs and feats of athleticism in high heels, I suddenly found myself thinking about user experience design.User experience design is about being an advocate for the user. It’s in your job title, after all. You’re recruiting users, talking to them, interviewing them, testing prototypes on them, asking them to perform a card sort, etc. On a product team, you’re tasked with being the user’s champion, making sure that you’re looking for unmet needs and meeting them in a delightful, intuitive way.Where reality meets theory though, user experience is about balance. It’s about balancing between stakeholders, and balancing between constraints and exhaustiveness. That’s what brought user experience to mind while I watched Jurassic World — it’s a movie about what happens when there’s a fundamental disconnect between the user (visitors), the stakeholders (owners), and the product team (scientists) — you come up with a product that (spoiler alert!) tries to eat you. Thankfully, while there isn’t much opportunity to develop a homicidally toothy app, there are some real difficulties with communicating user research to stakeholders. This post highlights some of the methods the UX team here at Prolific Interactive have found most helpful in counteracting that.At Prolific, we’ve had the privilege of working with open, supportive partners. Our kick-offs for each project typically include a deep-dive into the partner’s business and market. We spend hours interviewing members of the company — from co-founders to customer support — to benefit from their insights and learn not only about their product, but also about their motivations and aspirations. We’ll go through sales team training, and of course, we’ll use the product (e.g. on the SoulCycle project, more than a few Prolific P’s became regular riders!). This is all done as a team to make sure that we’re perfectly positioned with the context needed to begin research and ideation.Post-kickoff, we would ideally continue the close collaboration between the product team and the partners so that knowledge is transferred as directly as possible. In an ideal scenario, members of our team and our partners will sit in on user sessions, and at the end of the day, everyone involved will have a great understanding of the full intersection of company, brand, and user needs as our knowledge of it evolves. Unfortunately, this doesn’t always happen.A transparent research process builds our partner’s trust in our process and our shared product. But, the reality is, even though they might want to, our partners don’t always have the time to sit shoulder-to-shoulder with our UX designers as critical insights into user needs come to light. So, we have an interesting problem: how do we share these emerging insights with our partners in a way that is sufficiently frequent, in-depth, and persuasive as to keep our partners plugged into our evolving sense of the user but doesn’t require all of their (or our!) time?To solve this challenge, we’ve used several different methods. It helps, for example, that we’re in constant ad hoc communication with them on Slack. Unfortunately, ad hoc conversations aren’t great for delivering cohesive insights. Another common Prolific practice is working on-site at our partner’s office at least once a week to make sure there’s ample opportunity for in-person conversation and collaboration. Still, just because we’re around each other doesn’t necessarily mean we have the insight to deliver at that time, or that there’s enough time to deliver it. In addition, there are research reports — these are great too, but their format almost demands that our partners devote serious brain-time to absorbing even the most tightly-edited report. We can give research updates during in-person design meetings, linking design choices with insights. But these meetings are already time-constrained, normally focused on something else (user flows, design specs), and hardly the right place for partners to first encounter often counterintuitive user insights.Although each of these approaches will have its place, what we needed was a light, digestible way to keep our partners plugged into our evolving UX thinking. Our partners, after all, already have views about their users. Most of those views are going to be enormously beneficial and right on the mark, but sometimes their misappropriation can lead to subtle mis-prioritization. To use Jurassic World as an example, sometimes partners think that the user wants dinosaurs with more teeth, when in fact they only want more teeth if they also get impregnable walls and an entire army of Chris Pratts.This is where we begin to see those tradeoffs come into play: we need to do the research, but we also need to deliver it to our partners in a way that is persuasive but can be completed within the scope of the project. There is only so much that can be communicated in an infrequently shared in-depth research report consisting of dozens of pages. It’s our job to find out what users actually want, but it’s also our job to communicate it in a way that provides clear understanding between all stakeholders while respecting their time and attention. At Prolific, after trial and error, we’ve come up with two solutions to facilitate this shared understanding.In summary, the UX Digest prioritizes:This is a hypothetical example of a UX digest:The digest keeps everyone on the same page by communicating the important parts of our research across all levels. By keeping everyone consistently plugged into our ever-iterating research, it becomes easier to convey nuances to the partner, making it easier to make informed decisions. And it shows — stakeholders have been overwhelmingly positive about these methods.In the end, it all boils down to the team — when the process is transparent, everyone is on the same page, and this makes it easier to move forward and come up with a strong product. At Prolific, we’re constantly trying to find new methods to communicate and collaborate over information. With just a little work, we can achieve a balance between the product team and the stakeholders — and avoid having to run screaming from a leopard/jellyfish/eel/dinosaur hybrid named Indominus Rex.What has worked for your team and your partners? Leave a response in the comments below, or tweet us at UX designer at Prolific Interactive and jewelry designer/founder of Maria Celi. Has a dog named Thomas who nips knees.Thoughts from Prolific Interactive’s design team.

In the past year I’ve reviewed over a hundred portfolios, mostly for “Visual Design” and “Interaction Design” positions on my team. After reviewing so many portfolios, you begin to see patterns. You start to recognize the gaps that are missing from portfolios.I want to talk about a few of these gaps.The most important thing I ask when I’m looking at your portfolio is: Sounds simple, right? Having been on the other side of the review, offering critique to fellow designers, it’s surprising how often this question slips by unnoticed. Many designers put up work in their portfolio “just because” it’s stuff they’ve worked on in the past. You think it’ll help “round out” your skills, or show that you have lots of experience.But it works against you. If you have lots of print design stuff, but want to move into more UI design, highlight your UI design projects. All your print stuff can live elsewhere, in an archive. Don’t have many UI projects yet? It’s ok… you only need 2 or 3, and you can get those by working on side projects, doing pro-bono work, or heading to hackathons.A good portfolio has a 3 key elements:Guess what’s most important? The case studies. With only a handful of strong case studies, you’ll answer most of the questions any interviewer would want to know.I’ve seen case studies come in all shapes and sizes. They can be long, more focused on the process (e.g. T+L on their You want to tailor your case studies to the type of work you want to be doing more of:But no matter what shape you settle on for your case studies, I believe these are 7 essentials components of a design-focused case study:Start with a short summary of the project. Think of it as an Elevator Pitch. It should be brief, concise, and catchy.Sometimes you’re working on a well known brand and the title can speak for itself, but most of the time you aren’t. Use the overview to appeal to the reader about the “why” you worked on this. What sold you on working on that project? That should be the Elevator Pitch.Set the stage for your case study. What’s the problem you were trying to solve? What were the success metrics? Who identified the problem? Did you agree with the problem, was it well defined or was it still pretty grey and needed further exploration?Who are your target users/audience for the project? Personas go here. This is where you can connect with the reader. Help them understand the person you were designing for.Who did you work with on the project? What was your team structure? Explain how you communicated, and help meetings or reviewed deliverables. Who was responsible for what?Talk about the constraints; time, access to users, undefined problem. No project is perfect, and it’s the constraints that add a little spice to each project.What was your design process? Did you facilitate any design exercises? What deliverables were you responsible for? How do you conduct your process, and let others into your process?Did you reach success metrics? Solve the right problem? What would you do better if you could do it again?Funny enough, most of the portfolios don’t have all 7. But don’t let that hold you back! If you cover all 7, you’ll have answered most of the questions that an interested reviewer will have… 5 gold stars for you!I’m working on updating my own case studies to showcase this stuff, but in the meantime, here’s a few portfolios that do different sections well:And there you have it folks… two foundational pieces to keep in mind when crafting your portfolio: Interactive designer Learn about design for digital products.

A user experience designer wants to help the user meet their needs and accomplish their goals but creating a delightful product and experience seems fruitless if no one knows about it. Once they do know about it, it’s not enough to just get them to sign up; users need to be engaged with the product. What good is having a million users if none of them are using it? It’s a huge problem that all startups face. Enter the growth hacker.The term “growth hacker” has become quite popular in Silicon Valley and the startup scene and refers to someone that grows users for a product using unconventional marketing techniques with a focus on data to help guide decisions. Companies with over 100 million active users like Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn have dedicated teams focused on growth.While user experience designers and growth hackers have different goals, they aren’t so different as you may think. Both have common traits and focus on some of the same consumer touch points.Both user experience designers and growth hackers love data. Quantitative data is used figure out what the user is doing and how many times. The data helps answer questions like what button color converts the best, are users from Facebook more likely to share than ones from Twitter, and where are customers dropping off during the checkout funnel.Qualitative data helps answer the questions you can’t track with numbers. Why someone clicked one link instead of another, why they choose to share from one social network over another, and why they decided not to buy.Creativity fuels both UX designer and growth hacker. The designer is figuring out intuitive, thoughtful solutions to problems while the growth hacker thinks up hundreds of variations to A/B test, among other things.Being able to use both the right and left brain is a great trait of both UX designers and growth hackers. Some data is more important to one group over the other but there is data and knowledge that both that could help each do their job a little better. A growth hacker might want to test a bunch of different headlines but what if the UX designer already knew the main pain points of the customer and could predict with a high degree of certainty the headlines that would convert the best and vice versa.Before any growth can happen, there needs to be engagement. An engaging experience leads to a delightful experience and makes users want to come back for more or share with friends.While many sites try to reduce friction and get you through their funnel as quickly as possible, Twitter optimized for understanding instead. When Twitter first launched, people didn’t understand it. If you sign up for Twitter today, you are taken through a long on boarding process that engages users in the most important parts of the product that not only helps you understand how to use Twitter but why you should. They found the magic number of users a person needed to follow (about 30) that would almost guarantee that they would come back again and designed their experience around this goal.While on boarding is just one part of the growth formula, UX designers should focus on all consumer touch points such as email, customer service, social networks and marketing to create a single brand vision. If you knew what common traits the most engaged users had, would you design differently for them? Remember, if you design for everyone, you design for no one. UX designers should embrace the growth hacker culture - learn from them and their methodologies to improve your user experience, delight your customers, and grow.Lead User Experience Designer 

Today we are going to start the series of case studies about various projects and concepts This time we are going to look closer at the Pencil sketching, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe After Effects, Sketch 3.0, Pixate.The task at hand was very clear and at the same time quite broad: to create the social network enabling users to deal with music on their mobiles and other devices. According to this purpose, there were distinguished the following basic functions:- To download and syncronize media-files from other online platforms and social networks such as YouTube, SoundCloud, Spotify etc.- To upload the files from the desktop library of media files- To generate playlists in fast and easy way- To organize the stream in the image and manner of a radio station.The author also considered the additional functions, one of which was to enable the simultaneous general streaming from several different devices, for example, when people gather at the party or anywhere they want to listen to music together.Working on the task, the designer had to take into account two important pre-conditions:- High level of competition as there are a lot of already promoted and popular music services in the web and app sphere- The maximum possible level of adaptability and responsiveness of all the versions of the application that was expected to be used on all possible kinds of gadgets. It was vital to provide 100% adaptability of all the features in order to maintain high usability level.Music is an integral part of human life, but at the same time that is not the sphere where people would like to make any additional efforts. For most listeners in most cases music is where a person relaxes or, vice versa, gets energy — not the place for hard work demanding elaborate skills. The wider is the target audience of the music service, the simpler and clearer it should be. Everything the user needs here is clear navigation and fast work. However, considering the number of competitors on this market, it’s necessary to think also about something original in design so that the service can stand out of the crowd.Taking all these issues into account, the designer started the work on the site from the research of existing products and creating the concept of user experience. The decision was made to begin with designing the mobile version which was supposed to be more widely used and simpler for the target users. Next stage of design was going to provide implementation of the mobile version into web.On the basis of the review and analysis of existing social networks, the following screens were planned:- Launcher screens (educational steps animation)- Sign-in screen (including login, registration, password recovery)- User main screen (feed, profile, stream creation, audio files addition, search, slide menu)- Screen of settings and editing profileLet’s look into details of all the screens mentioned.Launch of the application started with the slides which were animating while scrolling and the user got the basic description of the service. After the last slide the sign-up/sign-in screen appeared with the basic set of standard operations (e-mail — password — password recovery). The service was integrated into all widely used social networks so it provided direct logging in with the profiles on Facebook, Twitter, Google+ and so on. After registration, the application made possible to link up all the user’s accounts in social networks to share the streams and see the friends’ streams. Therefore, after the user signs up, he/she is offered to follow the friends from other accounts or find new friends according to musical tastes.The profile was designed to work in 3 different modes:- DJ Mode (Party Mode) — made possible to download audio files, create playlists as well as send invitations to listen to the playlists for the limited number of people.- Home Mode — made possible to play the songs from the playlist remotely on different devices within the radius of a room- Listener Mode — made possible to download and listen to both own and friends’ playlists.This screen contained standard settings: connect or disconnect with social networks, push-notifications settings, changing password, deactivation of the account, signing out.Due to the fact that many screens were required and convenient transition was needed, the designer chose to construct the application with slide menu. The sandwich button on the left enabled opening the menu panel for transition to different sections. Also there was the list of users recommended for following. These recommendations were based on musical tastes, location, circles of friendship etc. In addition, there was a separate notifications screen which reflected activity of the followers to the user’s posts in the service or in social networks.In iPad version, the split-view was implemented. The sandwich menu and slide menu were set in the left edge of the screen. The size of the posts adjusted to the tablet.In mobile application the difference between Android and iOS is that the design of the upper bar (navigation bar for iOS and action bar for Android) has different functional abilities. In general, action bar for Android, in addition to navigation, includes filters, sharing, data about the current screen. Considering these UI peculiarities of the action bar for Android, the content of slide menus was reflected identically in both versions as the acceptable controller for both operating systems in the aspect of mobile applications. For Android version design was completed according to the guides of material design so the structure of slide menu was the same as for iOS but the appearance was different.For the web version of the service the designer used typical structure when header and slide menu duplicated functionality of the application with alterations on the size of the desktop for the web-version. Therefore, there were more posts visible in the feed in case of adaptation of mobile application to the web.Everything mentioned above shows that the designer didn’t make the attempt of experimenting and that was motivated by the desire to provide the highest possible usability and utility level. As it has already been outlined before, the application was created for fast and easy usage in everyday situations, so from the user experience standpoint, any experiments and extreme innovations in the typical scheme of social network could scare users, make them feel the application confusing and result in poor user experience.So, the main area of designing something original to distinguish the application was UI.The Blur effect was taken as the basis: the bars with data or statements blurred the background. The following animation was used on the player screen: the basic background showed the artwork, which presented the album cover for the composition playing. The background of the screen was blurred with the round unblurred central part, around which the effect of the rotating playing record was created with typical visual details.Visual design of the screens was distinctly distinguished according to their functionality. The screens of entertaining character (feed, profile, navigation bar) were designed with wide application of blur effect: it was dimmed out and the text data was presented in white color. However, standard screen such as settings or profile editing were designed in the simple style with light background and dark text.The feed screen reflected the stream of friends and included the artwork being the album cover for the composition playing, the avatar and name of the user whose post is playing, location, the name of the song and the playlist it is downloaded from, the number of likes, views and online listening.One more screen designed here was extended feed screen. Tapping or clicking on the stream, the user could obtain extended data including all the information from the feed screen described above together with detailed review of the comments, opportunity to leave the comment, make a repost or share in any social network linked with the application.One of the most important stages while designing UX/UI of an application or web-site is its testing. Practice shows that sometimes ideas, which look brilliant on the first glance, turn out to be absolutely impractical for target users. That happened with the first version of the Echo project described above.Having analyzed the results of user-testing and having worked with focus groups, the author obtained the information that the original design doesn’t work as it was desired. The thing getting the most negative feedback from users was blur effect in extended feed screen. The screen looked dirty and the text seemed unreadable. Animation and non-standard effects demanded long loading that is unacceptable for such simple operations. The feed screen contained too little body of the stream with overloaded controllers whose functionality was not really essential on that screen.So, on the basis of user feedback, there was made the decision to change the design of the screens. The solution found for them was the following: the blur effect was totally eliminated because its appearance in PSD was absolutely different from what was seen in real, especially low-resolution, screens.To provide maximum of cleanness and simplicity, all the screens were designed with light background, elegant and laconic uniquely designed icons.The feed screen contained less data and the posts had bigger size. Extended feed looked much simpler although saving the idea of animation.Transition from feed to extended feed was realized by tapping or clicking at artwork on the feed screen: it was given in smaller size in feed and got bigger while transition proportionally to the whole screen and under it all the information about the post ( the avatar and name of the user whose post is playing, location, the name of the song and the playlist it is downloaded from, the number of likes, views and online listening, detailed review of the comments, opportunity to leave the comment, make a repost or share in any social network linked with the application) was shown on the white background. To make it even more convenient, in case of vertical scrolling of this screen the big image of the artwork hid into the navigation bar leaving the place for the content below.Web-version was simplified to one-page site with the functionality of viewing the screens and profile.Work on this project gave our team valuable experience. It shows that modern ui/ux designer should always consider user’s needs and wishes that are vital in creating successful experience and therefore provide high level of desirability. Moreover, Echo project also proved that a designer should always be ready to update or even redesign his work and this decision has to be based on real testing of the product.Welcome to see other works by Sergey Valiukh on Welcome to see other works by Tubik Studio on Welcome to our site We are a comprehensive team of designers specializing in mobile/web interfaces, UI/UX, icons, logos and branding. We don’t look for solutions. We create them.

There are thousands and thousands of jobs and, seemingly, that many job openings. All the great product stuff gets done here — which means you won’t have to do silly micro sites or get as many stupid questions like, “Hey, can you write code too?” The Bay Area is a manageable size, more so than a Los Angeles or New York.It’s not my dream place. Vancouver or Portland are, but for different reasons. I’m living the true San Francisco experience — my apartment was built in 1915; I’m two blocks from Golden Gate Park; and I live in a neighborhood that you only enjoy if you love fog and hate sunlight, which eternally pleases me.About two and a half years ago, I was interviewing with Microsoft for the typical social media/user experience consulting gig. I asked them, “So, where would you like me to move?” They hinted toward San Francisco, and it took me three milliseconds to make the choice.I moved, and it was the best decision I have ever made.Other than being total A-list talent, it wasn’t as hard to stand out (and get interviews) as you would think. You do have to bring your A-game; but as long as you have a solid resume and a decent portfolio, it’s easy to get in the door. You won’t be able to fake your way through it, or if you do, you’ll have a series of one year gigs. There are plenty of places willing to take these people, but they aren’t very stable.As an agency professional once told me, “The best people are in-house now.” That’s true. The agencies struggle up here to keep talent, because the payoff to work for a startup is so strong.A few Los Angeles user experience professionals called me, and I recommended they should get up here as quickly as possible. Some of my ex-Angelino peeps are at some really cool companies or founded their own (Yammer, Blurb, Oink, Gogobot)… or, “So how’s MySpace hangin’?”The hardest thing was getting in the door at the first place. After you establish street cred, you’re golden to stay here as long as you want.Deciding where to live in the Bay Area is almost as important to your career as it is to your personal life. Are you looking to break into Yahoo or eBay, or do you want to join some hot startup? The rules are bit like this: most of the large companies are down on the peninsula; and the hipper startups are closer to San Francisco. A younger crowd tends to gravitate to San Francisco as a city, and companies build their talent pools and company cultures around this.It is quite a culture difference.Last weekend, I was down in Sunnyvale, which is fine for a lot of people. However, it’s surburbia. Leaving the party I was at, I was matching street corners to places in Orange County or the San Fernando Valley. Some people like suburbs, but it’s not for me at this time in my life.Decide what kind of company you want to work with, and where you get to live will kind of match. San Francisco is way too far from most of the larger companies to make the commute, but you’re probably looking for different things.I live in Inner Sunset, which is best known as the The standard joke is you can just When you visit, get a local to give you a tour of the city. Ask them to bring them to That said, San Francisco isn’t perfect. This a city that isn’t as clean as it could be, and the city government seems to waste more money than it spends wisely. The homeless population makes walks through certain neighborhoods an obstacle course. Muni, the mass transit system, varies from amazing (I can get into downtown in 20 minutes) to the absurd (It all depends on what you want. If you want a city, San Francisco is one in spades. But if you want the suburbs, better to move down to San Mateo or Mountain View. You can always visit the city and retreat back safely.You’ll hear a lot of startup ideas: good ones, bad ones, copycat ones. But everyone has an idea. Everyone has come here to reinvent themselves; and if you want to do it, this is as good of a place to do it than anywhere else.It reflects what San Francisco and the Bay Area is: a place where people can be almost anything they want to be. That’s why San Francisco is such a city of neighborhoods because each one fits a person perfectly in their time of life.Each neighborhood is also much more diverse than you would think: Castro isn’t always about the LGBT population; the Tenderloin is gentrifying; and there’s at least one person that didn’t go to Stanford that lives in the Marina. But the neighborhoods do have their constituencies, and they demand respect.This is not a cheap place to live.San Francisco is one of the few places where’s it’s normal to have roommates well into your late 30s because apartments are so expensive here. Average home prices on the peninsula have survived much of the housing slump. Because of the current tech boom, finding an apartment in the city is a combat sport (be first or be gone). When I moved up here in 1996, I had to go through ten apartment interviews to find a roommate, and I hear those times are back.Once you get past some of the high rents and the need to budget for parking tickets, it’s not that much more expensive. In fact, going out to get a great meal can be sometimes cheap; and if you move to the right neighborhood, there’s no need to have a car.You’ll see a pay increase from just about anywhere in the United States unless you’re in some cushy job where you are now. And when you move here, you’ll be renting anyway. If you decide to settle here, you’ll get a real taste of California real estate, but that can wait after you’ve made your first million, right?I was at a meetup about a year ago having a beer with one of the attendees. He was a smart guy. About mid-way into the conversation. He paused.“You know, if you had a full tank of gas, you could eat and drink for free for a month by going to meetups and events. That’s if you could put up with the people.”I did a search on meetup.com and found a staggering 210 events in the next month matching a search for “technology,” But your mileage may vary. Most of the meetups seem to be attended by a) people hiring (which is good), b) people looking to break into the industry (which may not be good), and c) people that hold the meetups on the oft chance they’ll get the next great gig and it’s more about them than building the community (which sucks).The people that are super talented are a) too busy to go to meetups or b) can’t figure out the return on investment. The valley also is relatively spread out, so you never see everyone you want to meet.In the Bay Area, I would look to Twitter to network. The real leaders in the space here seem to use Twitter as their broadcast channel, and it’s much easier to engage in conversations. What makes this easier is that you can engage in conversations like, “Hey, I would like to move there, what’s it like?” and “Are you hiring?” before you get here. It’s cheaper. And trust me, this works. I hired a designer this way.Interaction Designer and World Citizen. Runs uxdrinkinggame.com and usabilitycounts.com. The opinions here are my own, however misguided.Reruns from the blog Usability Counts. Without apology.

I’ve been doing a lot of designing this year and thought I’d share some of my favorite tools that have benefited my work. These tools help me work smarter, be more efficient, and save a ton of time.#1: The 15 tools listed above will provide you with everything you need to be a design all-star. The single most used tool in my toolbox is Sketch.Do you have a favorite tool that I missed? Comment below.Product 

Γεια χαρά! Είμαι ο Θάνος, σχεδιάζω websites  web applications στο χαρτί και στο photoshop 8 περίπου γήινα έτη και μέσα σε αυτό το διάστημα έμαθα και μια άλλη σειρά από επαγγέλματα, τα οποία μαθαίνεις αναγκαστικά όταν δουλεύεις freelance, έχοντας δηλαδή τη δική σου εταιρία.Κάποιοι νοιώθουν περήφανοι που τα καταφέρνουν μόνοι τους, χωρίς να χρειαστεί να μπουν στο εργασιακό 9–7, εταιρία, πρόγραμμα, προϊστάμενοι, άδειες κτλ.Εγώ είμαι από τους άλλους. Ναι, μπορεί να συνήθησα στο lifestyle του πιτζάμα πάρτι κάθε πρωί το χειμώνα και μαγιό πάρτι το καλοκαίρι, meetings στο μπάνιο, δουλειά από όποιο καφέ με κάνει και νοιώθω δημιουργικός και το αίσθημα ανεξαρτησίας “born to be wild” φάση, αλλά όλο αυτό έγινε εξ’ανάγκης.Βλέπετε, δεν μεγάλωσα σε κάποιο μεγάλο αστικό κέντρο, αλλά σε μια μικρή πόλη της Ελλάδας. Μετά τις πολύτιμες υπηρεσίες που προσέφερα στα Ελληνικά στρατά, προσγειώθηκα στη Θεσσαλονικάρα μου, η οποία δυστυχώς δεν έιχε τις μεγάλες εταιρίες που έχει η Αθήνα, στις οποίες ευχαρίστως θα δούλευα για 350 ευρώ, 2 σάντουιτς(1 πρωί, 1 βράδυ) και μια κόκα-κόλα, απλά και μόνο για να μάθω πιο εύκολα και γρήγορα από τους καλύτερους.Λίγους μήνες μετά βέβαια γνώρισα από μόνος μου τους καλύτερους. Είδες, αν σε θέλει…Η Θεσσαλονίκη City είχε κάποιες μικρές πλην τίμιες εταιρίες, στις οποίες το μόνο που δεν έκανες όταν δούλευες εκεί ήταν να μαθαίνεις, γιατί πολύ απλά δεν υπήρχε κανείς για να μάθεις από. Αυτό ήταν μετάφραση από σκέψη μου στα Αγγλικά και την αφήνω ως έχει για να δείξω proficient και σε αυτό.Έχοντας ήδη ένα portfolio από μεγάλα έργαξεκίνησα να ψάχνω για δουλειά ως Web Designer και τότε δεν αστειευόμουν, έτσι;Οι full-time δουλειές που έβρισκα το 2008 πλήρωναν 700–750 ευρώ μηνιαίως και απαιτούσαν από μένα να συναντιέμαι με πελάτες που δεν ήξεραν τι σημαίνει ιντερνέτ, να σχεδιάζω, να κόβω και να απαντάω και στα τηλέφωνα.Εκεί -αν και άπειρος, αυτοδίδακτος Web Designer- αποφάσισα να μη δουλέψω ποτέ για λογαριασμό άλλης εταιρίας που κάνει Web Design, γιατί πολύ απλά δεν άξιζε τον κόπο.Ούτε θα μάθαινα τίποτα, ούτε θα πληρωνόμουν για τον κόπο μου.Σαν καλό παλικάρι βρήκα μια άλλη full-time δουλειά ως “e-business development manager” σε μια μεγάλη εταιρία λιανικής πώλησης ενδυμάτων και υποδημάτων υψηλής ραπτικής, η οποία πάλι δεν με πλήρωνε ικανοποιητικά για τον κόπο μου, αλλά τα χρήματα ήταν περισσότερα από όσα έδιναν οι “Web Design Επαρχία” και ότι δεν πήρα σε χρήμα, το πήρα σε γνωριμίες, μαθήματα υπομονής, διαλογισμού, επικοινωνίας, διαφήμισης, πωλήσεων, marketing, management, HR, Customer Support, UX, IT και μια σειρά από άλλα ακρωνύμια υποθέτω, γιατί δεν τα θυμάμαι όλα.Εκείνα τα 2 χρόνια της ζωής μου τα θυμάμαι Θολά από το τρέξιμο και την έλλειψη ύπνου, γιατί παράλληλα ξεκίνησα και την δική μου ατομική επιχείρηση κατασκευής ιστοσελίδων. Οπότε το πρόγραμμα ήταν 09.00–19.00 στην εταιρία, 20.00–03.00 design για τους δικούς μου πελάτες.Ο καιρός πέρασε, η κρίση ήρθε, το e-commerce κομάτι που διαχειριζόμουν μέσα σε 1 χρόνο τζίραρε σχεδόν 1 εκατομμύριο ευρώ, αλλά στην εταιρία έλειπαν άλλα 50 οπότε… Πάνικός, Άρθρο 99, πτώχευση, και δε συμμαζεύεται.Ευτυχώς παραιτήθηκα πριν την κατάρρευση της Ελληνικής οικονομίας και πλέον δούλευα μόνο για τον εαυτό μου.Κάποια στιγμή σταμάτησα να ασχολούμαι με το frontend κομάτι και έκανα focus μόνο στο design και στη διαχείριση της εταιρίας, γιατί απλά δεν άντεχα να βλέπω τα designs μου να περιορίζονται από τις web authoring γνώσεις μου.Αυτό μάλλον προέκυπτε από 2 πράγματα:Και καλά έκανα. Αν δεν γινόντουσαν έτσι τα πράγματα, ίσως να μην ήμουν επαγγελματικά εδώ που είμαι τώρα.Φυσικά και ειρωνεύομαι. Ήταν το ηλιθιότερο πράγμα που έκανα ποτέ!Παρόλαυτα, επιτέλους πληρωνόμουν όσο έπρεπε, όταν έπρεπε, είχα τους πελάτες που ήθελα και αυτό κάθε χρόνο Ήμουν ικανοποιημένος και πίστευα πως αυτό δεν θα αλλάξει ποτέ. Άλλαξε όμως και όπως όλα δείχνουν, Σήμερα αυτοσυστήνομαι ως UX/UI Designer.Το UI είναι κατανοητό. Τι είναι το UX; UX=User Experience. Τι σημαίνει όμως UX Designer? UX Design? Είναι μόδα; Είναι πραγματική ορολογία; Είναι εξωγήινοι;Από που κι ως που και ποιος (the fuck) είμαι εγώ που γράφω στον τίτλο μου UX και μάλιστα πριν το UI;Πριν απαντήσω, ας κλέψω 2–3 posts ενός φίλου μου για να είμαστε όλοι στο ίδιο μήκος κύματος.UX είναι αυτό:και αυτό:Και πάρτε και αυτές εδώ τις 3 μπάλεςΝα και μερικές ευθύνες που βρίσκονται κάτω από την ομπρέλα του UXΤώρα που το ξεκαθαρίσαμε, συνεχίζω την ιστορία μου.Κάπου εκεί στον πελάτη νούμερο 500, μου ήρθε. Είχα άποψη για επαγγέλματα και τέχνες που δεν είχα κανένα λόγο να έχω μέχρι τότε.Έμαθα για τον τρόπο με τον οποίο διαχωρίζονται, επεξεργάζονται και πωλούνται τα διαμάντια και πως οι πελάτες σκέφτονται πριν προβούν στην αγορά τους.Έμαθα για παλιά ακριβά κρασία και υπερσύγχρονα κελάρια, για πρώτες ύλες βιομηχανικών σιδερωτήριων, για χειροποίητα αυτοκίνητα, για ξενοδοχεία, για ακριβά και φτηνά εστιατόρια, φούρνους, ζαχαροπλαστεία, χρηματηστηριακές εφαρμογές, B2B CRM’s, συστήματα ενδοεπιχειρησιακού σχεδιασμού, αποθήκης και 500 άλλα πράγματα, άσχετα μεταξύ τους.Κάθε φορά που αναλάμβανα ένα project χρησιμοποιούσα τεχνικές UX, χωρίς να ξέρω τι είναι το UX, γιατί τότε δεν ήταν της μόδας.Αν δεν τα είχα, τα μάζευα με όποιον τρόπο μπορούσα, τα κατανοούσα και τα χρησιμοποιούσα, αφού τα πρώτα τα επικοινωνούσα και ήμασταν όλοι στο ίδιο μήκος κύματος.99 στις 100 φορές, οι πελάτες που απαιτούσαν την παραπάνω διαδικασία ήταν μεγάλες εταιρίες που είχαν να χάσουν πολλά από μια κακή παρουσία online ή από ένα κακό Redesign or Realign.Τα χρήματα που πλήρωναν ήταν παραπάνω από ικανοποιητικά, ο χρόνος που διέθεταν ήταν σοβαρός και οι άνθρωποι με τους οποίους εγώ επικοινωνούσα, είχαν άμεση ή έμμεση σχέση με το design, κάτι που διευκόλυνε απίστευτα την επικοινωνία μας.Α, ναι, σωστά. Όλο αυτό διαδραματιζόταν έξω από τα Ελληνικά σύνορα.Αν κάποιος με ρωτούσε σήμερα, ποια είναι τα χαρακτηριστικά ενός UX Designer, θα έλεγα ότι είναι ένας άνθρωπος Business oriented, Design oriented, Technology oriented, Data-driven και πάλι άρχισα με τις ορολογίες, μαλακία -το ξέρω- αλλά τι να κάνω, είναι η αλήθεια και ζητώ συγνώμη από το φίλο που με έχασε από το UI εδώ και 3λεπτά.Το User testing, η δημουργία personas, τα user flows. πως από το a/b testing, διαλέγεις το α ή το b, το σετάρισμα των funnels και goals στο google analytics είναι φοβερά skills, αλλά δυστυχώς δεν φτάνουν.Όπως είχε πει ο Τζελαλεντίν Ρουμί, αυτό που δεν μαθαίνεται από video tutorials, βιβλία και σχολές, είναι το ένστικτο, το οποίο συνήθως είναι έμφυτο και γαλουχείται μέσα από την εμπειρία και τα άπειρα λάθη.Οκ, με πιάσατε. Μόνος μου το σκέφτηκα, αλλά ισχύει. Και δεν ξέρω ποιος είναι ο Τζελαλεντίν Ρουμί, απλά έψαξα στο google “ψαγμένος Πέρσης ποιητής”.Αυτό που θέλω να πω μάλλον είναι πως όλοι μπορούμε να μάθουμε να είμαστε ρομποτάκια. Λίγοι μπορούνε να σκεφτούνε σύνθετα και να δώσουνε χρήσιμα business insights βασισμένα σε πραγματικά δεδομένα, τα οποία μπορούν να μεταφραστούν σε “καλά” designs που λύνουν προβλήματα.Τέλος, το ποιος είναι και ποιος δεν είναι UX designer (η οτιδήποτε), καθορίζεται από το έργο του και όχι από τα λόγια του.Οπότε, ας γράφω εγώ ότι θέλω εδώ και 1 ώρα. Αν δεν κάνει όλο το Λονδίνο Ο UX designer είναι τόσο σπάνιο φαινόμενο όσο ο full stack developer που σχεδιάζει ιστοσελίδες. Δηλαδή υπάρχει, αλλά σίγουρα δεν υπάρχει με το κιλό εκεί έξω.Προσωπική μου εκτίμηση είναι πως λίγες Ελληνικές (funded) startups είναι διατεθειμένες να πληρώσουν σωστά έναν UX designer.“Όχι αγαπητέ founder, δεν είναι καλά και δεν θα έρθει επειδή δεν έχει δουλειά ή εργασιακή σταθερότητα. Να στο πω διαφορετικά. Ο UX Designer είναι επαγγελματίας, right? Πιθανότατα έχει ένα website, right? Αν δεν έχει λύσει αυτά τα προβλήματα για τον εαυτό του μέχρι στιγμής, πως στον *@#!@ θα τα λύσει για σένα;Ας υποθέσουμε λοιπόν ότι το budget υπάρχει στη δική σου startup και είσαι διατεθειμένος να πληρώσεις. Πάλι, δεν θα έρθει (μόνο) για τα χρήματα, αλλά αρκετά με όλο αυτό τον αρνητισμό.Να μερικοί λόγοι για τους οποίους θα ερχόταν:Και πες ότι υπάρχουν όλα αυτά και έρχεται.Σε ένα startup, το process του design, build, launch, iterate σε χρόνους Formula 1 είναι ζωτικής σημασίας, γιατί το κάνεις ξανά και ξανά, και ξανά.Όταν όλα γίνονται πολύ γρήγορα και συνεχόμενα, πρέπει να προσαρμοστείς σε αυτό, είτε είσαι designer, που σημαίνει ότι δεν θα σχεδιάσεις το τέλειο user interface, είτε είσαι UX, που σημαίνει ότι δεν θα περιμένει η ομάδα να κάνεις το τέλειο research, είτε είσαι frontend, που σημαίνει ότι δεν θα περιμένει κανείς 2 μέρες για να κόψεις μια μακέτα με κώδικα που μπορεί να παρουσιαστεί σε κάποιο web event στο σαν-φραν μαζί με τη Lea Verou.Οπότε, κατά τη διάρκεια της ζωής ενός Startup, ένας(1) UX Designer δεν προλαβαίνει να εφαρμόσει ταυτόχρονα όλες τις πτυχές του UX Design.Αλλά ας μιλήσουμε λίγο σοβαρά.Αν ήταν ένα τραπέζι σε ένα σουβλατζίδικο με 4 φίλους σου, το UX θα ήταν η στιγμή που ρωτιέστε μεταξύ σας “τι θέλετε ρε” και δίνεις την παραγγελία σας, η στιγμή που ζητάς ακόμα μια ρετσίνα με κόλα και η στιγμή που ρωτάς τους φίλους σου αν χόρτασαν και παραγγέλνεις άλλα 10 σουβλάκια.Όλη την υπόλοιπη φάση είσαι απασχολημένος με το να τρως κάτι που περπατούσε πριν από μερικές μέρες στη γη. Είχε οικογένεια, παιδιά, ίσως ήταν ελεύθερο στα βουνά, αλλά συνήθως βρισκόταν υπό επιτήρηση μέσα σε κάποια εγκατάσταση.Αυτό είναι το UI.Για όσους καπνίζουν, όταν ανάβεις τσιγάρο, αυτό είναι το IPO.Δεν το περίμενα, αλλά όντως διάβασες όλη την ιστορία. Έφτασες στο τέλος.Creative / Dad / Poet. Loves NYC  English Breakfast. Head of design 

Each one of us, at one time or another, has dreamed of being a superhero or wished for a superpower. As a kid I wanted to be Iron Man. Who wouldnt want that cool suit with all of that technology at your fingertips? But if you had a choice of user experience superpowers, what would you choose?And in the world of user experience design methods and approaches we have an abundance of choices. According to Vijay Kumar, there are at least Before we get too excited perhaps we should step back a bit and understand—what are we really trying to achieve? Why do we need user experience superpowers anyway?So the core principle at work is that we must understand our customers. What does the world look like to them? What’s their mental model of how things work? What are key insights that we can understand about our customers that will help us build a business?You have your choice of any UX superpower and you choose Interviewing Users? Are you kidding me? I kid you not. My choice would be the superpower of Interviewing Users—sounds mundane, but in the hands of the right practitioner, can be quite magical.First let me set some context for where interviewing users, as a form of research, makes sense. I’m not talking about traditional market research approaches which tend to be evaluative in nature—statistically based, definitive, and convergent. I am saying that interviewing users can be invaluable as part of qualitative, user-centered research—ethnographic based, ambiguous, and divergent.What do we get out of good interviews? We get rich, in-context data on customer activities from a first-person point of view. We get thorough data on customers’ real experiences. We get unique insights that lead to generative and actionable design principles, the basis for understanding Interviewing Users enables me to stay curious, learn from my interactions, and discover cool new stuff. I may not be Iron Man, but with my superpower of Interviewing Users, I’m feeling quite powerful…Business Solution Architect, Catalyst, Connector

People mix the terms UI and UX together. UX is tricky because it doesn’t refer to any one thing. Interface design, visual styling, code performance, uptime, and feature set all contribute to the user’s “experience.” Books on UX further complicate matters by including research methods and development methodologies. All of this makes the field confusing for people who want to understand the fundamentals.That’s why I avoid teaching the term ’UX.’ It means too many things to too many different people. Instead I focus on individual skills. Once you understand the individual skills, you can assemble them into a composite system without blurring them together. For software design, the core skill among all user-facing concerns is user interface design.You can define UI very precisely. An interface is a place where two things meet: the human and the computer. The computer has functions it can perform. The human needs inputs and outputs to take advantage of those functions. The interface is the arrangement of inputs and outputs that enable people to apply the computer’s functions to create outcomes they want.Here’s a minimal example. A computer can calculate the square root of any number, like 167391. I can’t do that in my head or even on paper. In order to apply the computer’s square root function, I need inputs and outputs. The input could be an alert box with a text field and submit button. The output could be another alert box that displays the answer with a text label.That interface offers one function. Things get more interesting when you offer multiple functions. Take an ATM machine as an example. First imagine an ATM that only dispenses cash and doesn’t show balances, take deposits or do anything else. The design task is just like the square root calculator — input and output. Now imagine you want to upgrade that ATM to offer both withdrawals and deposits. The new interface needs to provide a way to choose which of the two functions you want. That’s what “navigation” is.Those are the ingredients: functions, inputs, outputs, and navigation. You arrange the inputs and outputs on screens and connect them with navigation. The interface works when people can perform the function they need — when they get the square root answer, the $60 cash or the bump in their bank account.This description is tangible. You can actually point to the inputs, outputs, functions, and wiring between them and say “this is the interface.” Then you can evaluate the experience of using that interface and identify activities you could perform to improve it.You could apply visual styling to make it more aesthetically pleasing. You could research your users to find out how adequately the interface fits their needs and habits. You can do so many things.But for software makers, I recommend starting with a strong understanding of UI by itself. The fundamentals can take you very far.Designer at 37signals/Basecamp since 2003. I write occasionally about UI design and product management. More at 

The second weekend of March, a group of practicioners from Tradecraft went to the Philips Health Suite Hackathon in downtown SF. We broke into 3 subgroups based on our interests in some of the unique personas which Philips created to target certain capabilities in their Health Suite APIs. The group that I was in included someone from each vertical at Tradecraft: 1 Growth, 1 Sales/BD, 1 Engineer, and 2 UX/Product designers. During the first night, we also managed to grab an outside developer for some help tapping into the APIs.And then the realizations started.In the beginning of the process, we pulled back from the list of facts about the fictional user whose data we’d been given and brought it back to who he would be as an individual, what his problem was, and how he would use the product we were designing to solve that specific problem. In other words, before designing the look and feel, we designed the whole experience:We focused on the young guy who’s competing with friends to get healthier and doing more than just counting steps. We looked at a way to incorporate friends as well as workplace incentives for healthier behavior since a healthy, engaged employee is one who’ll stick around, and because it’s easier to grow healthy habits with support.Aside from the user, as a UX designer, I also consider the goals and metrics of the businesses I’m working with. For that reason, some of us UX designers also dip our toes into things like conversion funnels and business canvases. Because of our product vision and broad perspective, we can see the roadmap of product development, and that helps us focus on things like which features to build when.During our brainstorming session, we spent A LOT OF OUR TIME deciding on the minimum viable product, what core features we could use in a demo, and what we could produce in a couple of days. The actual build time was pretty short because of all the time we spent deciding, and I think we could have been more strict with timeboxing. However, we were focused on the MVP instead of arguing about silly details, so the time spent actually making stuff was way more efficient than I expected . Seeing how productive we were after so little time made me more confident in my UX methods .With 2 designers collaborating on our team, we were able to knock out Also, the developers built a working business dashboard that showed some of the health results from the data Philips gave us. Eventually, it would also include things like reduced HR acquisition costs, employee engagement, and reduced use of employer-sponsored healthcare (in the long run).So, UX designers: hackathons are great as skill incubators where you can practice communicating with technical teams, clients, and stakeholders. Developers need people who’ll challenge them and make sure they’re building something that make sense (designers need someone to rope them in, too). And everybody needs to agree on the big picture instead of getting tunnel vision for cool features or visuals.So search for meetups and hackathons in your area, because your skills are as necessary there as they are in your day jobs. And developers: rope in some of your designer friends because it’s great practice for them and you’ll have a better cross-functional team. Maybe we can set up a Slack channel for you.Designer and cat gif-er. I ask good questions.

I was searching for cookies when I discovered Google is violating one of the first rules in UX design, Since the beginning of Google we have seen the default blue link, we are still seeing them. Nothing happens when a user hovers over them.Alongside the underlined links, there are the non-underlined blue links on the same page. These links have an underline when the user hovers over them, but they are inconsistent from the default style with an underline.Dark grey links aren’t underlined on hover, instead they are given a darker grey. The red border-bottom shows when they are the current page.The link is just like the other menu links at first (see above), but when the user hovers, a 1px border goes around the rectangle along with a subtle shadow.These buttons are similar to the Search Tools button, but have a different font size and weight. The real difference is that these links have the grey rectangle to begin with, unlink the Search Tools button which is just text to begin with.No 1px border, no drop shadow. This one is probably my biggest complaint.“Are you the business owner?” and “Feedback,” are both dark grey links that are underlined on hover, but do not change color.Dark grey links that are not underlined on hover like the sub-links above, instead they turn darker similar to the top menu.Look at the footer above, it has a grey background and the links turn darker on hover. Now look below, the “Evan +” link has the same attributes, but it is given an underline on hover. My first thought is to say the “Evan +” link is given more weight, so they underline it. However, the menu items to the left of this screenshot are not given an underline — I would say the menu items are given more weight than the Sub-Links from number 7, which are given an underline.Does it matter? Is everyone so familiar with Google search the visual inconsistencies aren’t a big deal? If Google makes the change to make their clickable styles more similar, will it be a big deal? Will that admit previous fault? Will users notice or care?I like to believe Google is a company that does everything for a reason, so it seems bizarre they would make these choices. I’m not saying every link should look the same on the search page (so is First time Google users Google has blue, green, dark grey, and light grey links. Some links are underlined and some are not — some weighted links are underlined on hover, and some are not. The problem is that all these links do not share a similar attribute, some are underlined on hover and some aren’t. Coincidentally‎, the What’s your opinion? Do you think Google’s visual inconsistency is a problem?Founder, designer at getontracks.com. Previously GrubHub, Samsung. Studied 

In a But UX shouldn’t be learned through what to avoid—if you avoided everything offensive, you’d probably end up with an app as exciting as oatmeal. Instead, I’d suggest starting a file of “Good UX.” Fill it with little experiences that charm and delight, and soon you’ll be thinking up ways to please your own customers.Here are a few of my favorite example from my files:When Chocolat’s trial period ends, it asks for payment. It’s cute about it, with a little heart. This alone wouldn’t have made it into my file, but combined with:This surprising notification, I was laughing.Sure enough, when I opened my text document, it was entirely in frustrating-but-tolerable Comic Sans.I haven’t spent the $49 yet, but between their funny UX and excellent service in general, I fully intend to with the next paycheck.While I was attempting to save money last month (this was the period in which I attempted to When I went to cancel, it asked me why, and I chose from the drop-down menu that I was attempting to save money. This is what popped up:This was genius. I went from being miffed that I was being auto-billed, to wishing that I could stay on the service, all with one overly-tempting screen. I’ll probably be back soon, Oyster, just you wait!Although I don’t actually use Timehop myself, but Not only is it a fun little celebration—it also takes into consideration the feelings of its users, who might naturally be a little down on Singles Awareness Day.So I’m trying to put together a little set of rules for UX—a little Hippocratic Oath for UX designers, and so far I’m thinking HUMAN:But I’d love to hear your thoughts—feel free to leave a comment or e-mail me at Cofounder of Fittr. Illustrator of Tech Doodles. 1/3 of The Craft marketing newsletter. I love life and lemurs — and alliteration.

En los últimos tiempos ha coincidido que hable de este tema en diferentes foros en los que he estado, y me apetece darle forma con reflexiones en todos los aspectos de la gestión del diseño en varias entregas. De hecho en unas semanas compartiré parte de estas anotaciones en Llevo mucho tiempo trabajando en esto del diseño y experiencia de usuario, 15 años exactamente, y poco más de 8 como manager en todos los niveles de decisión en una organización enorme y muy compleja. Ser manager de UX tiene un montón de particularidades y aristas que lo hacen diferente del management tradicional; supongo que esto lo dirá cualquier persona que dirija una actividad de un sector hiper especializado, pero ocurre que este sector sigue siendo emergente, en algunos sitios sigue siendo desconocido, y en el mejor de los casos apenas empieza una consolidación “institucional” muy inmadura. Parte de esa consolidación radica en los cambios que una organización, un proyecto, una compañía tienen que asumir si quiere gestionar el diseño eficientemente e integrarlo en el día a día. Y en medio de los cambios está una persona que le toca liderarlo, una persona que viene de esa disciplina: que es diseñador y conoce la metodología, el proceso, las técnicas y el sector. Y en algún momento se convierte en manager. Un UX Manager.Por supuesto, es inevitable que un manager se aleje de la práctica constante, del “hands-on” del diseño. No se alejará del todo, pero sí al menos un poco: pocos managers seguimos diseñando o haciendo wireframes, y es un lujo encontrar el punto intermedio entre la práctica, la estrategia y la gestión de equipos.Lo primero es la definición, y aquí me remito a un Es llamativo que Schauer dice que un UX Manager es esencialmente in-house; y excluye de su visión a los directores de equipos de diseño y ux de consultoras, estudios y agencias. Estoy de acuerdo. Mi Para los que venimos del mundo de la publicidad el UX Manager es muy similar al Director Creativo, al tipo que dirige las decisiones creativas en una empresa, pero al menos en mi experiencia, un UX Manager le toca enfangarse en más Luego, más.Head of Experience Design in TelefonicaMove thinking forward

InnovationBox’daki işime başladığım günden bu yana Kullanıcı Deneyimi konusunda bildiğim teorik ve pratik her şeyi çevremdekilerle paylaşmaya çalışıyorum. 2012 yılında Ömer ile ilk mobil uygulamamızı yaptığımızdan bu yana kullandığımız teknolojilerde ve sektörde oldukça mühim değişiklikler olsa da insanlara yaptığımız işi tanımlama zorluğu hiç değişmedi.Çoğu zaman mühendis, doktor, öğretmen değilseniz ne yaptığınız da çok ilgilendirmiyor eşi, dostu. Üstelik bu soruları geçiştirmek için “tasarımcıyım” cevabını verdiğinizde de “matbaacı” gibi algılanıyorsunuz. O nedenle hem kafadaki soruları temizlemek, hem de Özellikle Türkiye gibi proje bütçelerinin kısıtlı olduğu, işletmelerde bir kişinin birden fazla iş yaptığı ülkelerde mesleğinizi tam olarak ayrı tutmak biraz zor oluyor. Zaten çoğu zaman title’lara baktığınızda da UX tasarımcısının görevi kullanıcının duygularını gözetmek ve projenin akışını bu minvale göre şekillendirmektir. Yani odak notası kullanıcı ile ürünü ortak bir paydada birleştirmektir.Dolayısıyla bir UX tasarımcısının sadece teknik konularda değil, sosyoloji, psikoloji, muhakeme, empati kurma ve ergonomi gibi sosyal konularda da en azından temel seviyede bilgili olması beklenir.Hatta bu noktada projenin hitap ettiği ülkenin, kitlenin ve yaş aralığının da önemi büyüktür. Bu nedenle her projede aynı metodolojileri uygulayamazsınız.Ayrıca, her ne kadar işin araştırma kısmı için ayrı bir pozisyon olan “UX Araştırmacısı” görevlendirilmesi gerekse de çoğu zaman bir projenin UX Araştırmasını da UX tasarımcısı yapmak durumunda kalır.Dolayısıyla bu şartlar altında bir UX tasarımcısının projenin rakip analizinden pazar payına, market hedeflerinden potansiyel kullanıcılarına kadar her türlü bilgiye sahip olması, bu bilgiler ışığında da potansiyel kullanıcılarla mülakatlar, testler ve anketler yapması gerekir. Daha sonra yaptığı bu testleri analiz eder ve raporlar.Eğer üzerinde çalışılacak projenin daha önce bir muadili yapıldıysa üzerinde çalışır, eksik gördüğü noktaları belirler ve bunu yeni projesi için daha iyi nasıl kullanabileceğini düşünür.Araştırma ve bilgi toplama işlemleri bittikten sonra ise oluşan fikirleri kağıda dökme aşamasına geçilir. Eskiz (Sketch) çizimler yapılarak projenin kağıt üstünde nasıl durduğuna karar verilir, üzerinde beyin fırtınası yapılır ve son olarak Wireframe oluşturulur.Müşterilere anlatmakta zorluk çekeceğiniz kısımlardan biri de Wireframe oluşturmak diyebilirim. Her ne kadar gördükleri siyah-gri-beyaz ekranların projenin son hali olmadığını, sadece düzenin böyle olacağını söyleseniz de pek çok proje sahibinden duyacağınız tepki genelde “Bu site böyle siyah beyaz mı olacak ? Hani renkler nerde? Bunlar niye böyle kutu kutu?” tadında olacaktır. Bu noktada da sakinliğinizi koruyup çocuğa anlatır gibi Wireframe çalışmasını müşterinize anlatmanız gerekir.UI tasarımcıları çizdiğiniz wireframe’leri, kurguladığınız akışları süsleyen, onları insanlara en iyi şekilde sunmaya çalışan insanlardır. Yani UX designer temeli atarken UI tasarımcısı incesini çeker, rötuşunu yapar.Çizilen wireframe’ler üzerinden hareketle nerede hangi rengin kullanılacağına, tipografiye, ikon seçimlerine, kurumsal kimliğe kısacası görsel manada tasarımı zenginleştirecek ne iş varsa her şeye UI tasarımcı bakar. Kimi zaman gerçekten de “logoyu bi’ tık büyütür”, “butonu azıcık sağa alıp text’i de beyaz mı yapsak” der.Günün sonunda bu iki kişiyi bir arabanın vites kutusu olarak düşünürsek; UX tasarımcısı vites kutusunun geçişlerinin sorunsuz, yollarının net, zamanlamasının kusursuz olmasını sağlarken, UI tasarımcısı da vites topuzunuzu kaplayan deriyi, üzerindeki dikişleri ve arabanın bütünüyle olan diğer görsel bütünlüğünü halleder. Bu sayede de mükemmele yakın çalışan bir sisteme sahip olursunuz.Sonuç olarak UX tasarımcılığı UI tasarımcılığıyla aynı şey değildir. Çoğu zaman UI ve UX tasarımını aynı kişi yapsa da özünde iki mesleğin de disiplinleri, deneyimleri ve uzmanlık alanları kendine hastır. Bu nedenle de son zamanlarda popülerliği artmış, kıymeti bilinmeye başlamıştır.Au revoir!Works on UXGelecek aklında ilerle.

The idea of Apple offering a streaming subscription service to the entire iTunes library has been a long dream and it’s finally here. This morning I opened up the App Store, eagerly downloading the latest update to iTunes and hit the all important subscribe button, committing to an $11.99 (AUD) individual monthly plan, $1 less than Spotify’s premium service [edit: they’re equally priced when purchased through the Spotify website].It’s worth noting I’m using Apple Music through iTunes as I’m running the iOS 9 beta on my iPhone and it won’t be available until the next beta, so this is a step-back in time having not used iTunes for many years.The introduction to Apple Music is certainly different to any other music streaming service’s on-boarding process. Having previously used Google’s all-access, Rdio, and long-time Spotify user, this process seemed more personable and focused on the art and preferences of your music taste, rather than the functional interface of the player. I was pretty surprised to see it finding my music taste pretty quickly, serving up a collection triple J hits in a few clicks, and then focusing down onto particular artists.The on-boarding worked quite well, I picked alternative, dance, and electronica: which populated my “for you” with artists such as PNAU, Justice, The Chemical Brothers and LCD Soundsystem — perfect and right on point. I can’t help but think this kind of on boarding process is mis-focused, iTunes as a mental model (for me at least) has been two things: my music + a store to buy music. After on-boarding there’s this strange middle level of music you can play, but it’s not your music and it’s not for sale. It’s presented to look like a store, where nothing is for sale and “your library” isn’t really yours.Ignoring the actual interface of iTunes (which for the record I think is convoluted and over-contextualised), the new Apple Music part of it is missing something quite important: Take the “for you” tab that now appears under the “music” section of the “library” part of iTunes window (yes, there is a massive issue with navigation here).I can click on a track to listen to it straight away, ad free, and in quite impressive quality (audiophiles need-not-comment). There’s however no way to Aside from the “For You”, there’s also a “New” and a “Connect” tab as part of the service. The “New” section looks similar to the browse section of Google Music, showing a plethora of albums sorted categorically. There’s so much content available, but scrolling through the interface it just stops. You get to see about 100 albums and then nothing. I would’ve expected an infinite scroll, or a pointer to other areas for music. The splash page feels quite sandboxed from the service and it’s certainly difficult to distinguish what you’re supposed to be doing here compared the other discovery areas.Jumping into “Connect”, there’s something that feels quite Then there’s radio, it’s lost the ‘iTunes’ branding in-front of it and works much the same as before. I gave the new 24/7 beats one station a listen this morning on the way to work. Other than the drop-out in the train tunnel, the quality of the streaming was incredible. Digital is very much the future of the radio business and the ability to stream globally 24/7 is an interesting logistical and demographical challenge. Listening to Beats 1 for 30 min quickly reminded me of why I don’t listen to broadcast radio. The host was obnoxious (Ebro Darden, not Zane), the music is all pop and the cut-aways and overlays meant I was listening to someone speaking about music, not actual music on my commute. Beats 1 is clearly a big experiment for the future of digital broadcast and I actually hope it pays off. I would love to see Apple open this platform up as a way of local radio stations, or just passionate people, to have a way of broadcasting using the technology and licensing agreements already in place (Triple J — I’m looking at you).Also I don’t really listen to whole albums anymore, Spotify does a great job of user and software curated playlists based on your interests and you can subscribe to those playlists and they update dynamically — it’s really neat. Every week the ABC push new songs to the triple-j Hitlist and they’re updated and synced offline to my phone. In Apple music I can’t see any user curated playlists yet, let alone the ability to subscribe to ones that update.There are clearly some things to iron out, and Apple is notorious for winning users over with second releases and tighter integrations. It’s all very well to complain about the issues faced on day one, so for the next version, here’s what I’d do.Firstly, it should be it’s own section of iTunes — not muddled in with music that you own, music that’s in the cloud and music that you subscribe to. I expected an “Apple Music” tab to added next the the “your music”, “movies”, “TV-shows” and store icons. It’s a completely different model both mentally and commercially and the blurred distinction isn’t doing anyone any favours. The only way I could see this working well is to remove your entire iTunes library and commit to Apple music, together it’s a mess.The next thing is distinguishing browse/discover from play/my music. Spotify has a really nice model where browse is all about their entire catalogue, and “for you” sits inside there. Cognitively it makes sense, as the music you like should be a sub-set of the entire catalogue on offer. Moving the navigation model to have a pattern that drills downwards would reflect the model the music industry has been using, well-forever. Starting with genres  artists  albums  songs, there’s already a mental model for music, so why change it?The player is mostly good, it’s the same simple interface familiar to iTunes but it’s missing the functions that streaming services need. Downvoting tracks and a “show in apple music” (rather than store) would be great additions.Hover states are for the most part a terrible interaction to rely on, but when you can target the device and input method they can be useful and allow the UI to stay clean visually. The problem with Apple’s use is that, well, they don’t do One of the simplest UI issues is the play button looks like a carrousel which has been mashed with cover-flow and not scrollable. It’s not obvious how to move through the somewhat fragmented usage of carousels (there’s no sense of place or a clear purpose in the way they’re being used). The triangles and chevrons often appear right next to each other; clicking the wrong one will clear your current track queue and start playing Dr. Dre, instead of scrolling through the likes of Taylor Swift or Florence  the Machine. I’d push those play buttons in the centre of the artwork and remove those pesky carousels no-one uses.The way albums are displayed is pretty close to the beautiful album colour blending used in the library view, but it’s not the same. If there’s no artist photo the colours don’t really work. The double leading between the tracks is nice visually but you can’t see the whole album list even on a 15” Macbook Pro. There are also no interactions here, for instance you can’t drag a song into a playlist or swipe across to add to queue — the only clickable part is the ellipsis. It’s also impossible to see where you’ve come from. There should be a breadcrumb here, the back/forward buttons feel like a browser, but it’s not a browser experience. The discovery sections should feel like you’re getting deeper into an artists discography, not hitting a wall.The ellipsis button is the most common (albeit only) interaction that keeps getting used as a too-hard bucket for Apple’s designers. Everything seems to be hidden behind it, and sometimes there’s nothing to see (share doesn’t really belong here). How about breaking out some of these functions into UI elements, less clicks are generally better and something as simple as a play button, or cue button would make the currently delicate process of creating a playlist much easier.I love music and I love Apple’s design philosophy, but there’s some serious work needed to bring the UI up to par with the quality of the streaming service. I’d be interested to see the evolution in the lead up to iOS 9’s release later this year, hopefully there will be some adjustments and the design team listens to the user feedback. I’ll be sticking with it for the three month trial and see if it gets better. There’s been so much work around securing the best content for Apple Music, the only problem is finding it.

In August 2014, When a filmmaker choses a topic for a film, there are so many factors to target before a camera is picked up and turned on. For example, in the acclaimed documentary Then there is deciding the scope of the project in regards to a timeline, budget, and most importantly who is the audience. A documentary project aired on a network like Spike TV or Vice will probably be completely different than a documentary project that aired on Lifetime TV or OWN (which Let’s not forget that a good portion of a documentary filmmaker’s job is to do contextual observations hours on end.Before prototypes are built, UX and UI designers go through a phase of ideation. This process could entail creation of affinity diagrams, personas creation, user flows, design studio, and paper prototypes. In filmmaking, before any rough cut begins, many filmmakers utilize making paper cuts first. Filmmakers shoot hundreds of hours of footage and have to synthesize patterns and themes, identify key characters for a story, and come up with a novel ways to tell a good story. Just having everything in your head or your computer is not enough. This just doesn’t refer to the editing process, but also helps the filmmaker decide any additional filming to tell the right story.You got to lay it out to try to get the big picture and narrow it down. Otherwise it would take forever to find what you are looking for and finish a project. Just like style sheets and mood boards, documentary filmmakers have to define the look and feel of the film to communicate to cinematographers, editors, and motion graphics creators. These aspects including typography, colors, and sample photos.The filmmaker has the two-fold task to get into the minds and hearts of not just documentary subjects, but also film audiences. Infomercials just state information, but good documentaries try to get into the mind of the subjects to take audiences on a journey.The Oscar winning documentary, A lot of issue-based documentaries also have to keep in mind the audience’s capacity and tolerance to getting a heavy wave of information. Some documentary film festival screeners have an ongoing joke about some documentaries submissions — “This film should be sponsored by Gillette because people may want to slit their wrist from such a depressing film.” Successful documentaries like In any documentary project, the most time consuming period is not filming, but rather the post-production phase. There is a misconception that films are made in a linear fashion where a filmmaker comes up with an idea, shoots something, edit in the footage in place one time, and then poof, the film is done. Some films are made that way, but rarely are they successful. Hitchcock said, “A film is made three times: when you write it, when you shoot it, when you edit it.” Some argue that there’s a forth stage when film is distributed. What one conceives in one’s mind does not always translate well on screen. Even if a filmmaker makes a film exactly the way it was pictured in his or her mind, the audiences may not react in the most desired way.Just as design should not be done in a bubble, filmmaking is not done in a bubble. It is important to get feedback throughout the process. Often a film project has screening sessions throughout various phases of the film that will change major elements of a film. These elements can range from moving scenes around, introducing a new character, removing or adding a scene, changing the fonts/color on graphics or the music score in the film. Every detail may seem seamless in the final product, but a lot of trial and error testing occurred behind the scenes. In fact, on one project I produced, we decided to scrap the entire intro to a film and had to start editing from scratch after a brutal test screening. The results made a huge impact in the overall final cut of the film. If you are making something for people, feedback is key to make the best product. In fact, one of the things I love about UX design is the reiterative process to discover things to make things become better beyond anyone’s current imagination.It’s heartbreaking for a filmmaker who made a social documentary that resulted audience’s having a negative or the exact opposite outcome from what was originally envisioned. The people who made Furthermore, documentaries just don’t inform and entertain. Many social issue documentaries also shift audiences view on topics and sometimes initiate change in the greater world. An Now that technology has opened the doors to ways audiences consume media and stories, some documentary filmmakers have shifted into the realm of transmedia which include educational video games (e.g. Learning about people in order to help people

Architecte de l’information, Maman. De l’information !Oui en gros, UX Designer, c’est un peu le terme à la mode. C’est plus court. Plus vendeur. Plus Marketing. Mais un peu faux.Après dans la vraie vie, c’est différent. Chacun a ses petites particularités.Si je veux faire simple, je te dirai que pour être Ergonome, il faut un diplôme d’Ergonomie. C’est une science qui te permet de bosser dans n’importe quel secteur d’activité. Que ce soit pour les sites web, pour des postes de travail, pour des chaises, etc. L’intérêt est de valider que ton site, ton objet, ton produit est utilisable et facile à utiliser par l’utilisateur.L’architecte de l’information, quant à lui, travaille avec du contenu (texte, visuel, vidéo, ...). Il le classe, le range, le positionne pour que l’utilisateur trouve facilement ce dont il a besoin.UX Designer, tu veux dire ? Oui, alors petite définition. Commençons par le plus facile. L‘intitulé “ UX Designer” est d’abord composé du mot Prenons l’exemple d’une maison. Et bien l’UX Designer serait l’De mon côté, je ne vais pas te livrer des plans de maison, mais des Et vu que je travaille en binôme avec un graphiste (qui a aussi plein de jolis noms comme Directeur Artistique, Visual Designer, Webdesigner, etc.), il reprend les wireframes mais en leur donnant vie. C’est à dire qu’il rajoute la couche esthétique en respectant une charte graphique.Oui. Après comme dans tous domaines, il y a des gens très doués capables de faire les 2. Et comme dans tous domaines se professionnalisant, il y a aussi des structures qui ne peuvent pas se permettre d’avoir 2 bouches à nourrir.Ah oui, effectivement, j’oubliais le plus important, mais aussi le plus délicat à expliquer.Le “UX” de UX Designer signifie “User Experience”. Donc l’Mon travail consiste donc à toujours penser à l’utilisateur. En le mettant au centre de notre réflexion. En se focalisant sur ce qu’il voudrait faire, sur la façon dont il le fait, sur son ressenti. Et c’est pour ça que l’on parle d’Bon ok, j’avoue que c’est très conceptuel et théorique. Sauf que dans la vraie vie, si tu retournes tous les jours sur leboncoin, c’est parce que ton expérience a été positive. Tu es dans la cible. Ils ont adapté le site pour toi.Mais l’expérience, c’est aussi une notion transverse qui ne se limite pas qu’à l’interface, qu’au site Web.Non, et c’est pour ça que j’aime pas l’intitulé d’UX Designer.L’UX Designer a un rôle pédagogique, il doit transmettre la bonne parole pour que tous les employés se disent que le plus important, c’est l’Merci pour la transition, Maman. En gros, mon métier est fait de 2 phases :La 1ère, c’est celle qu’on vient de voir, c’est la phase de Design, de Et bien la 2nde, c’est la phase de tests. De Bref, durant cette phase de tests, nous faisons venir des vrais gens, des vrais utilisateurs pour leur montrer notre site. Et on observe ce qu’ils pensent, ce qu’ils font, et comment ils le font.Voilà, à défaut d’avoir été bref, j’espère avoir été assez clair ?Hum.UX, Design dinteraction, Architecture de linformation, Design dinterface  Ergonomie.

Years ago, when the company I work for grew larger, we had the illusion we needed a design department, a front-end department, a development department and so on. At that time, a large part of my day job existed of User-Experience Design related tasks, like writing functional specs, wire framing and prototyping. It didn’t take long to find out that this department and waterfall approach wouldn’t work anymore for us: we went Agile.A lot of people in the UX Design field struggle with the transition from waterfall to an Agile/team process. Because we were doing very well, right? We had a complete workflow set-up. We had this great list of deliverables. This old play-an-department thing was absolutely brilliant for the UX Design discipline. Everybody seemed to be happy with us.Because I actually think that our old UX design workflow was But especially in the digital industry, I think this was About 6 years ago we decided these design/front-end/development departments were not working for us. We moved to We experienced clear benefits:But also for a better user-experience, I think there are clear reasons why we should adopt these new principles.We were also unprepared, but are much more experienced now. I would like to take you through our learnings and explain how I think we’re managing to keep a strong focus on user-experience after our shift to agile.Before I move on. We build our products with teams of 4 to 6 people. One or two developers, a front-end developer, a designer and a team leader. The team works with a backlog that contains of The role of UX designers is changing. We no longer OWN the user experience of the website we’re designing. Our projects are getting more complex, have to work on different screen sizes, devices and different technologies. I’m not suggesting there can’t be a dedicated UX designer anymore. I can still perfectly imagine a project where somebody is sketching, making flows etc. full-time in a team. But we mainly see UX as a competence, instead of a discipline.Our projects ask for more skills. While productive teams ask for less people. Less specialized people. The team constantly has to make decisions that influence user experience and flow. I believe that these skills are already there. That the multidisciplinary teams can work together to solve UX design problems.When we started making the transition to agile teams, we also added UX to the set of skills that everyone at the company should master. Of course this depends on which role you will fulfill in the company. Naturally we want our Art and Creative Directors to have a high level of UX skills. But our developers and front-end developers also have a great sense for design and user-experience. Every team should have a certain level of UX Design.User-Experience isn’t just the field of But what about prototyping? Wireframing? To quote Jared M. Spool, once more:At the start of the century a lot of us didn’t work with development iterations. So, as UX Designers we filled up our toolbox to deliver completely defined designs because they were needed. With teams, UX is not about dropping a bomb (deliverables) and running away, anymore. Techniques like card-sorting are tools. Tools that should make things clear for everyone, not just the Organise workshops, train team members, sketch together. Make sure, all team members are capable of making decisions that influence user-experience.Once you’re working – on responsive designs, apps or other interfaces – in an agile team, you know one thing for sure. Everything will change. Constantly.So instead of getting frustrated, we can better embrace techniques that facilitate experimenting. A way to do is, is to initiate a sketching session. One of my favorite techniques is With Sketchboarding, it’s it’s all on paper. Which makes it really easy to discuss solutions and change them with the team if needed.We moved a lot of UX related work from ‘big design up front’ to development sprints. Is there still a role at our company for UX research? Usability? Of course there is! As you can imagine, these teams work in sprints of 2 weeks. In these sprints the focus is on completing user stories. There is less time for extensive research. So what do we prepare?For example, for a recent project we tested with the target group before we started sprinting. We first wanted to know what their feedback was, and created mock-ups to do so. The whole team, including the client, knows that the eventual product could become radically different than our tested designs. But it gave us more insight in advance of building, and we could base the user stories on the testing results. So with research, if it’s needed in advance, we’ll do it. In between sprints we usability test with target audience, which provides valuable feedback for future development.Besides research, we prepare visual design direction, because it needs time. Both for us, as for the client. But even in this phase we try to make them suitable for agile. For example with Do I mean with Creative Director How to create a great User-Experience for apps and the web. #ios #android #web

As a visual discipline, Graphic Design has its own specific norms and rules. When the time comes to begin working in the user experience field, it’s not only about screen and button design, but also about getting to know new variables that are part of it.In this article, based on my brief experience in UX design so far, I’d like to share the most important points to keep in mind when a graphic designer crosses over to UX design.In every design field, a graphic designer should note that the user’s or receptor’s interaction a designed piece is the most important factor of all (we work for people). However, this is not always the case, as we designers are used to hiding behind our ego and computers, creating what we think is the best. We just don’t pay too much attention to the real experience of a piece in its exact environment. We don’t ask ourselves or research things like: “Has the poster I designed fulfill the purpose or reason behind its creation? Can everyone understand it, or is it ambiguous? Could it be better?” Of course, in some cases, post printing or delivering corrections is impossible.In UX Design, the key element is the user. We must constantly test our designs to measure the use that people can make of it, to watch, learn, and improve. I remember the first usability test I made with my startup wideo.co: I almost got a migraine. “I wasn’t used to seeing my designs in action. Something that Steve Jobs once said: “Once you get into usability design, it is not only about the visual aspect in terms of beauty or comprehension anymore, but we must synergize that with how the product develops in the user’s hands. As morphology and content are always in dialogue, UX design shouldn’t be considered as a separate layer in the production line of the product. In fact, in many modern companies that understand its value and impact, it is being taken into consideration from the very beginning of every business’ important choices. A payment form or pricing page with a bad UX design may directly affect sales, for example.When you’re responsible for product usability, you face the need of constant testing, improvement and new hypothesis generation.Errors and things to improve on will be present once the product reaches real users outside the design and development lab. Iteration means learning from those mistakes and possible improvements, making modifications based on that, and testing once again to check if your work actually has an impact.To go deeper into the iteration concept, I strongly recommend the book “Lean UX” by Jeff Gothelf and Josh Seiden, based on another great book if you’re entering the startup world called “Lean Startup”, by Eric Ries.We the designers always trying to be original or to innovate, make a difference and not fall into those pseudo-unique common places.However, in UX field, we do need to try to innovate, but in some cases it is recommended to check elements or practices that others have implemented, tested, and confirmed its appropriate functioning.We can save a lot of time and money on the product development process by avoiding basic usability mistakes that have been already experimented by others, such as: what color works better for a payment action, if some kind of word in a call to action button converts more, what kind of checkbox use, what forms are best for some particular case, and so on.For example, at To achieve this, we must get rid of the “No copying whatsoever!” chip from our designer brains. Actually, this isn’t very different from using a typeface designed by someone else, or a chromatic palette or picture we didn’t take.The sooner you test with users, the better. You will be saving time and money on your project (or on your boss’s project and he will be very grateful for that, believe me).Two years ago, I remember carrying out the first usability tests with printed-paper screens of our awful wireframes at the Engineering University of Buenos Aires. We just asked people: “Where would you press to do this?”, “How would you do that if you see this screen?” Based on those finger actions, we changed sheets of papers with several screens to create something similar to a flow.I was very reticent at the beginning with this crazy idea from my Co-Founder Agu De Marco, who had much more vision and contact with startups practices than myself. But for sure, this was one of the best and most enriching UX experiences we had at such an early stage of the project.Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Demandez à votre maman d’imaginer à quoi ressemblerait sa cafetière Nespresso préférée si son fabriquant avait seulement fait appel à des ingénieurs pour concevoir une machine à café fonctionnelle et à des publicitaires pour faire un bel emballage. Elle aurait probablement été déçue en ouvrant la boite. Non ?Avec le temps et la croissance des enjeux économiques, les services immatériels: sites Internet, applications mobiles… sont devenu des produits au même titre que ceux — tangibles — dont nous nous servons au quotient. Il faut des gens pour les concevoir en prenant en compte, non seulement l’aspect fonctionnel, mais aussi la signification et l’usage. Et c’est votre rôle.A la différence de la cafetière de votre maman, un produit digital n’existe que si l’on s’en sert. Le reste du temps, ce sont des données, du code informatique stocké sous forme de 0 et de 1 quelque part sur sa tablette tactile ou n’importe où ailleurs dans le monde, dans le “Cloud”. Ce qui rend le produit réel, ce qui fait que des impulsions électriques rendent un service à l’utilisateur et génèrent un revenu (on l’espère) pour l’entreprise, c’est le fait d’être utilisé. Bref, son On parle d’User eXperience (Expérience Utilisateur en français) pour mettre l’accent sur cette particularité des services (digitaux notamment) par rapports aux objets tangibles (les cafetières Nespresso).Le Web, c’est un peu comme un supermarché dans lequel on consommerait les produits avant de les acheter. Bon, personnellement, j’en ai vu le faire, mais ce n’est pas la norme. Et souvent même, on ne les paie que si l’on en est satisfait. Beaucoup d’entreprises de la nouvelle économie et pas des moindres ne vivent quasiment que du temps que les gens veulent bien consacrer à l’utilisation de leurs produits. Elles se rémunèrent en collectant des informations et en affichant de la publicité selon le modèle maintenant bien connu du “Si c’est gratuit, c’est parce que vous êtes le produit” (Voilà pourquoi l’expérience de l’utilisateur est si importante. C’est ce qui permet de différencier un service d’un autre. C’est ce qui permet à la plupart des entreprises du Web d’exister et de croitre sur le long terme.L’UX designer fait ce que l’on appelle dans les grandes entreprises de “l’assistance à la maitrise d’ouvrage”. Il facilite la transformation d’une idée en un produit de qualité et fait en sorte qu’il réponde en priorité à ces trois critères :Et plus globalement, il contribue à développer une pensée “design” au sein de l’organisation pour laquelle il travaille.Pour cela il fait appels à des méthodes et à des compétences dont la liste complète est longue et variable d’un UX designer à l’autre.Par exemple : Il anime des ateliers pour aider les participants d’un projet à formuler une problématique. Il analyse et communique les comportements et les besoins des utilisateurs. Il planifie et supervise les étapes de la conception du produit. Il réalise des prototypes. Il définit le cheminement des utilisateurs au sein du service et ses étapes clefs. Il spécifie l’emplacement des fonctionnalités et la manière dont le contenu est organisé à dans les interfaces. Il contrôle la cohérence des interfaces sur plusieurs terminaux (web ou mobiles). Il est impliqué dans le design graphique et le développement…Un vrai travail donc. Rassurés ?Lead User Experience  Service DesignerMove thinking forward

We’ve known for a long time that the future of personal computing was mobile. Today, with mobile device sales outpacing laptop and desktop sales by a wide margin that future is here and now.This paradigm shift has prompted many companies to adopt a “mobile first” strategy- developing mobile applications before or even in-lieu of desktop applications. So it follows that mobile application UX design and testing is and will continue to be critically important.For a UX designer, the big challenge is how to run and record a UX test of an iOS application on an iPhone. In the PC environment, there are numerous inexpensive applications that can record screen activity. Such is not the case on the iOS platform. Apple doesn’t allow applications in the iOS environment to record screen activity on the device. The absence of this option on the iOS platform makes capturing all of the details of a UX test on the iPhone seem all but impossible.Several creative UX professionals have designed and built devices to address this problem. These solutions, sometimes referred to as “rigs” or “sleds”, are usually comprised of an armature onto which is mounted the iPhone, several cameras and a microphone. The rig is then connected to a laptop to record the sessionHere are two examples of these “DIY” solutions.If a DIY solution isn’t your style then several vendor can sell you a fully realized premium version of these rigs. Products like Mr Tappy, the Mod1000 and Wolfvision are beautiful solutions but cost hundreds of dollars.The problem with going this route is that these rigs are a bit unwieldy. The awkwardness will undoubtedly affect the way the user interacts with the iPhone — and that’s going to impact the results of the UX test. Moreover, as a lean UX professional you may not have the budget nor the interest in attempting to incorporate one of these armatures into a guerrilla UX testing expedition. Nothing will kill a guerrilla UX test moment better than presenting your newly recruited test user with an iPhone that has sprouted arms, cameras, microphones and wires.When it came time for me to do some mobile UX testing I was determined to find a better way. After a few hours of research I found an application called Display Recorder.Display Recorder turns your iPhone into a compact, self-sufficient mobile UX testing platform. It records the user’s voice over the iPhone microphone, while simultaneously capturing all of the activity on the iPhone screen. The user’s gestures, taps, and touch points are also shown as an animation on the screen. When the test is completed, Display Recorder will turn the recording into a video file which can be viewed right on the iPhone or exported wirelessly.The result will look something like this…This all makes the Display Recorder a pretty effective solution for guerrilla UX testing. So why isn’t Display Recorder the de-facto standard? The reason is that Display Recorder isn’t an approved iOS application, so it’s not available in the Apple App store. Although initially approved by Apple, Display Recorder’s approval status was subsequently revoked. Apple pulled it because it works by recording user activity, which violates their developer security guidelines. – its also exactly what is needed to effectively record a UX test session.So if you want to use Display Recorder you’ll have to jailbreak your iPhone. Granted not everyone is willing to do this. However, if you already run a jailbroken iPhone or you’re willing to invest the 10 minutes required to jailbreak your phone, then you have the opportunity to turn your iPhone into the ultimate guerrilla UX test platform.Display Recorder isn’t just great for UX testing. Spend some time with this app and you will quickly realize it has a great many other uses. For example I’ve used Display Recorder to record product demonstrations and short “how to” videos.To make the tests run more efficiently I put all of my UX testing apps together into a group on my iPhone. Grouping the applications together makes jumping from app to app much quicker.That’s it! You’re all set to run UX tests on your iPhone… no sled, rigs, or extra cameras required to capture all of the insights!So with mobile becoming our primary personal computing platform, mobile application UX design and testing is more important than ever. If you want a simple way to run and record a UX test directly on your phone, I suggest jailbreaking your phone and using the iPhone application Display Recorder. The Display Recorder can capture all aspects of the UX test session without the need to use additional cameras and microphones. Because the test doesn’t rely on attaching additional infrastructure to the iPhone, the user’s interaction with the phone will be more natural — and the more natural the interaction, the better and truer the UX test results.I hope that you found this helpful.Thanks for reading and happy testing!product designer | problem solver | father | competitive athlete | digital  tech enthusiast | recovering New Yorker + NorCal rouleur | sean-melchionda.com

Aaah l’UX designer. Très courtisé ces derniers temps.Au delà des termes à la mode, entre ce que le marché désigne comme ‘un User Experience (UX) designer’, et ce qu’est dans les faits le design d’expérience utilisateur, il existe tout un tas de raccourcis, d’amalgames et d’approximations. La plupart du temps, la description d’un poste d’UX designer est en réalité celle d’un designer d’interface (User Interface — UI). Cela a été largement discuté dans des articles comme Tandis que le débat entre généralistes et spécialistes fait rage, l’UI designer (designer d’interfaces utilisateurs) est à la croisée de ces deux chemins. Comme souvent, la réponse à la question “Lequel est mieux que l’autre ?” est : “ça dépend”. Alors que le spécialiste est caractérisé par la nature unique de son livrable, le généraliste est capable d’en produire une grande variété, même si chacun pourra être un peu moins pointue que celui d’un (bon) spécialiste.En reprenant cette logique, l’UI designer est spécialiste des écrans d’applications. Il produit une représentation de l’interface graphique,statique (une image) ou dynamique (en HTML). C’est sa spécialité, son point fort. Personne n’est meilleur que lui pour réaliser cette tâche. C’est rendu possible par sa maîtrise des outils nécessaires (Adobe Photoshop, Firweworks, Illustrator, ou bien Sketch, même Paint, celui que vous voulez tant que cela rentre dans votre processus). Cela dit, en tant que professionnels du web, nous comprenons qu’une représentation graphique et statique d’une interface ne peut pas être une fin en soi, pour de nombreuses raisons. Or, les clients et autres supérieurs hiérarchiques ne partagent pas cette vison des choses, et restent très attachés au fait de voir le produit fini dès les premiers jalons du projet. Le lourd travail qui en découle est entièrement supporté par l’UI designer.Les méthodes et outils de travail sont en train d’évoluer afin de soulager ce poids : design directement dans le browser, ou de nouveaux logiciels comme Macaw. Et pourtant, même ces maquettes dynamiques ne solutionnent pas intégralement le problème.l’UI designer se doit de connaître son environnement. Il travaille de près avec les équipes Produit et Technique. Cela lui permet de mieux cerner les utilisateurs finaux et le cadre technique du projet. Comme souligné par J. Gothelf dans L’UI designer est donc à la fois un spécialiste — en design d’interface — et un généraliser — en expérience utilisateur — (voir Tout comme l’accessibilité, d’ailleurs. Les experts en ces deux domaines, mais aussi psychologues, sociologues, et bien d’autres, peuvent avoir une énorme valeur ajoutée à un projet donné. Chacun de ces spécialistes apporte des éclairages inattendus, impossible à prévoir pour des personnes n’ayant pas leur niveau d’expertise. L’accessibilité et l’utilisabilité, ayant connu leur essor en même temps qu’internet et la multiplication des écrans dans notre quotidien, ont pu se s’intégrer au processus de conception. La sociologie et la psychologie (notamment comportementale) sont, elles, souvent (toujours ?) mises de côté. La raison est simple : ces disciplines sont perçues comme trop théoriques et abstraites dans un processus moderne de travail en entreprise. Et les décisionnaires n’aiment pas la perte de temps (d’argent). C’est une erreur, et loin d’être une perte de temps (d’argent).Les chercheurs sont très accessibles et sont le plus souvent très motivés à partager les fruits de leur travail, pour peu que l’on s’y intéresse. Leur point de vue unique a été forgé par des années d’étude d’un phénomène spécifique. L’UI designer ne fait pas partie de ces gens là. Il peut apprendre de leurs recherches, et parfois, travailler avec eux. Mais il ne sera pas à même d’explorer le sujet jusqu’au racines profondes du problème, et se contentera d’utiliser les grandes lignes et tendances identifiées. Et cela suffit.Un compromis est nécessaire. Soit un seul individu s’occupe de faire cela, si le temps alloué le lui permet, mais avec les process et outils de son choix : au lieu d’aller-retours sans fin sur des maquettes “pixel-perfect” (au pixel près), laissons le design se passer intégralement dans le browser (navigateur), ou dans un environnement similaire. Ou alors, faisons intervenir plus de spécialistes (d’argent) sur le projet. Ce dont les entreprises ont réellement besoin quand elles annoncent chercher un UX designer, c’est un UI designer, au profil en T (“T-shaped”).Et pourtant, quelque chose me chagrine un peu lorsque l’on parle de design d’expérience utilisateur. Même le terme lui-même est un peu bizarre : l’expérience utilisateur peut difficilement être controllée, alors comment la concevoir d’emblée ?Heureusement, Jesse James Garret répond à ces deux questions dans son livre, “Les éléments de l’Expérience Utilisateur”. Ce n’est pas l’expérience que nous designons. Nous designons le produit, qui, à son tour, fera prendre forme à l’expérience. Et aussi, les écrans ne sont pas la seule façon de vivre une expérience (formulé de la sorte, c’est indéniablement évident).Penchons-nous de plus près sur l’expérience de manger dans un fast food typique. N’importe lequel fera l’affaire, choisissez votre préféré. Ce type d’établissement offre une expérience parmi les simples et les plus fluides qui existent :Toute personne ayant pénétré dans un fast food a au moins vécu les étapes six premières étapes. Et pourtant, à chacune d’entre elles, quelque chose peut mal se passer. Peut-être que le nombre de places assises dans le restaurant n’était pas suffisant au vu de l’affluence. Peut-être que la nourriture était froide quand vous avez mangé. L’employé à la caisse était désagréable. Vous n’avez peut-être pas trouvé le distributeur de paille. Les toilettes étaient sales. Ou alors, c’était juste une mauvaise journée et cela a réduit votre plaisir coupable.Vous aurez aussi remarqué que dans l’exemple donné, le seul écran interactif est celui utilisé pour enregistrer votre commande (même si ce jour là, c’est peut-être vous qui avez appuyez sur les boutons d’une borne). Et pourtant, vous savezque quelquechose a été fait pour guider ce que vous étiez en train de vivre (d’expérimenter), à tout moment.Parce que j’aime vraiment beaucoup la nourriture, je vais m’appuyer pour la suite sur un film de Pixar, Ratatouille, pour illustrer le point suivant (si vous n’avez pas vu le film, essayez, il est top !). Dans la scène où Remi, le rat, observe la cuisine du restauant depuis le toit, et décrit le rôle et les responsabilité de chaque membre de la brigade de cuisine, le film explique admirablement que TOUS sont importants. Le réceptionniste, le serveur, le chef, le sous-chef, le saucier, etc. Même celui au plus de l’échelle, le commis préposé aux poubelles. Chacun d’entre eux apporte de la valeur, qui vient s’ajouter à l’expérience globale. Cette expérience globale est la seule chose qui compte.Si les plats sont bons, mais que le serveur est insupportable (comme cela arrive “parfois” à Paris), alors le produit est imparfait. Et bien, même si ce n’est pas une bonne chose, ce n’est pas la fin du monde. L’expérience, ce que le client va percevoir dans cette situation, est imprévisible. Peut être que cette personne ira sur Yelp et laissera l’avis suivant :Ou alors, l’avis se rapprochera plus de cela :L’expérience perçue de ce client dépend de ses valeurs et des ses sensibilités, à ce moment précis. D’ailleurs le terme même d’expérience utilisateur devrait être mis au pluriel : expériences d’utilisateurs. A chaque utilisateur, ses expériences. Il peut y avoir autant, si ce n’est plus, d’expériences distinctes qu’il n’y a d’utilisateurs, puisque même si plusieurs utilisateurs auront vécu la même expérience (bonne ou mauvaise), un utilisateur donné pourra vivre une expérience complètement différente la seconde fois.L’expérience utilisateur est un résultat, qui est souvent plus que la somme de de ses composantes. Et l’UX designer dans tout ça ? Quel est son rôle, si l’expérience utilisateur est la somme de la perception de l’utilisateur joutée au travail de chacun ?L’UX designer est, finalement, un auditeur (le métier, pas la cible des chaines de radio). Il dispose d’un set d’outils très spécifiques qui peuvent être appliquées à n’importe quelle composante d’un produit ou d’un service.Plus le produit est bien défini et cohérent, plus ses utilisateurs sauront à quoi s’attendre, et adapteront leur attentes en conséquence. Aucun produit n’est parfait, et ce n’est pas grave. Les chaînes de fast food ne sont pas exemptes de toute critique, mais leur offre est cohérente. Les expériences perçues par leurs clients sont similaires. Les gens ne voulant pas manger ce type de nourriture n’y mettent pas les pieds. Ceux qui entrent, savent à quoi s’attendre. La variance est donc faible, les expériences similaires, controllées. Il est alors possible de les fusionner en une seule expérience représentative. Ce n’est qu’à ce moment que l’on peut parler de design d’expérience utilisateur.Revenons un peu aux écrans. Le raisonnement que nous venons de faire est toujours valable lorsque transposé aux applications en ligne. Oui, l’UX designer est certainement impliqué dans l’architecture de l’information, dans la stratégie de contenu, et dans le design d’interface. Mais il aide également l’équipe du service Relation Clients à réfléchir sur le ton donné à leurs réponses-types. Il travaille avec l’équipe Logistique pour réfléchir à un moyen de réduire le temps d’attente entre la commande et la réception du produit : comment faire pour que l’utilisateur le perçoive plus court qu’il ne l’est réellement. L’expérience est perception.Et ces sept propositions de maquettes pour la refonte de la page d’accueil à livrer pour Jeudi ? Ce n’est pas son job. C’est le boulot du UI designer. Enfin je veux dire du web designer. Designer Visuel ?Comme vous voudrez. Le principal est de s’assurer que toutes les personnes autour de la table partagent la même façon de voir.User Experience and Interaction Designer. I care about people, user experience, details, and consistency.

The first thing that obviously struck me about Excuse me?There is something so incredibly striking about that phrasing that it makes me do a double take. I have closed so many pages before without saving. Usually the prompt is to ‘save’ or ‘do not save’.But somehow I’m not even sure if it’s a real improvement, heck, it almost gives me a heart attack when I try to close a big document that I’ve unconsciously edited:It is a high-impact difference. Who would have thought that changing the wording from ‘do not save’ to ‘delete’ could have such an impact? But this small difference confirms something that I’ve been mulling over for a while.I think we’ve all moved on from the stereotype of the designer being the “make-pretty person” (although I’m still suspicious of you, This consideration will often be related to planning user (or I prefer One of the key aspects of the job is communication. This is partially ruled by visual cues and intuitive placement of things that move a user forward.There is a reason that human beings evolved to communicate using language. All the sophisticated design in the world can sometimes amount to not much more than a buffalo on the cave wall in comparison with the pure communicative power of language. And unless you’re designing a product for toddlers or monkeys, language will play an Now I will be fair to the writers of ‘Really Shitty Copy’ and admit that it isNow, if you are working in a product development team that mostly does internal work, chances are you’ll have an internal copywriter that works closely with the design team. If this is the case — you’re all good. If you get trouble, just make sure that communication flows freely between the two departments. If, like me, you work on external client projects, copywriting can be a whole other kettle of fish.In that case, unless you specifically agreed to do the copywriting for the project, you will be as far removed from the language as you can. You will sometimes be handed a finished document that pays little or no attention to your attempt to communicate efficiently with the reader. Sometimes you make the mistake of just rolling with bad copy and content.What this means is: …This is why it is so important for you to be a writer — so that you can realise when the copy you have been given You need to be able to easily pick out the sentences or paragraphs in the copy that encapsulate what a page is trying to tell the user, or learn to write such text yourself. You need to be able to shorten paragraphs if they do not fit into your design without affecting their integrity.Of course, a lot of UX designers already know this — this is why To go back to the delete button — that was a conscious choice by Sometimes UX design is about finding the simplest solution to your problems. Sometimes the solution is visual, sometimes it is the whole structure that is wrong. But sometimes it can be something as simple as the right word in the right place.Next time a client asks you for a certain impact, ask yourself — does this really come from design? Or does it have to come from language?UX Designer at Serious Fox.

Hi, my name is Jan Losert. I’m 23 years old and I am leading pixel creation at Currently, I’m 8,750km from home in sunny Bangkok on my trip to Southern Asia.PirateBay of course. Nah, I was chatting online with people about various topics on one a forum back in the day. The majority of people on the forum used to have amazing graphic signatures in their profiles, which would appear under all of their posts. Curiosity brought me to Photoshop and I started designing my own signatures. The next two years following the creation of my first signature, I spent around 2 years creating various photomanipulations, matte paintings and wallpapers. Four years later, I moved to web designing, and I have been pushing pixels ever since.…..I’m not sure if sharing a schedule of my typical workday would be a smart idea, because if a potential client or company saw this interview, it’s likely I would be forever unemployed ;).As my colleague, Dom Bracher says, I am a ‘crazy guy’. I often browse 9gag for 6 hours or watch 20 episodes of the Big Bang Theory during the day and in the evening design 5 pages in 2 hours. It doesn’t sound like a lot, but I like to design when I feel at my most creative — being in a startup has allowed me to produce my best work. In the past 14 days I have started to work on a day schedule to create a more stable routine, in order to become more focused and productive. In the morning I start the day with a 7 minute workout. I then go to a coffee shop to avoid being close to the bed in my apartment. At the coffee shop, I try to do as much work as I can before all my friends and colleagues are up in the western world (Remember, I’m 7 hours ahead). As soon as I feel that I have moved ahead with the biggest tasks, then I head home to spend some time by the pool or in the gym. After my break, I continue with the second part of my work schedule. I use the break to think about the designs I’ve done during the first part of the day. In the evening (9PM) I have a daily standup with the rest of the team. This is a time we all see each other face to face over Google Hangout, to discuss tasks for the following day.For me, I’ve discovered that changes in environment and places, as well as people around me are hugely motivating.Without even thinking, it’s definitely my current mission at Tapdaq. After 2 years within different companies, I have now found total freedom. At Tapdaq, I brought my best friend and one of the best front-end geniuses I’ve ever had the chance to work with, to the team. He even has the same name as me, so the team know us as Jan1 and Jan2 ☺The main struggle for me in previous projects was the lack of drive to build anything beautiful. It was hard to care deeply about shipping pixel perfect designs. I can say, very proudly, that Tapdaq is my baby. I’ve designed the product from the first pixel, right up until this point. Tables, simple illustrations and graphs are my first love, which ironically, is what most designers find super boring. It’s a mix of those three aspects that you will find on Tapdaq, you’ll see more of this on my Dribbble to! ☺ (Also keep in mind that we have built everything that you can see on the front-end in 3 months, with just 2 people ☺)I guess I learnt about it from the initial launch of the Sketch App, by the guys from Bohemian Coding. It was hard to miss all those tweets and articles about switching to Sketch!My favourite feature is how Sketch handles export. I usually work on projects with more than 30 screens, and I could easily write books about the days I spent building Invision prototypes from Photoshop.Since we are really small team, I enjoy the time we have together and talk about the next features as a team. I use Sketch, Photoshop and Invision for the main design work. In Tapdaq we are using Slack for communication. Hangouts for standups, Trello for tasks and I personally use Things for my personal management.We use Mixpanel for tracking funnels and goals of our product. We are also using an incredible tool — Inspectlet to capture all of our user journeys. By the way last year I’ve wrote whole article about my workflow and tools which I’m using on my Don’t be scared about making a big change to your life and ask more questions. Stepping out from your comfort zone is a bit of a cliché, but it works, all the time. Even if it takes you months to make a change, the time it took will be worth of it. Remember, the worst case scenario is that there is always the option to go back home.Find yourself in whatever you are trying to do. This is quite a general statement and it can be applied to any field of work. I can say with confidence, there is nothing better than waking up with the feeling you are going to be better today than yesterday. If you find what you love in what you’re doing, it will most likely end up as your job.Share your stuff with your friends and the world around you, don’t hide and always be open to critics.To sum up, I would like to quote Steve Jobs: I share most of my designs on my Like everyone else in the world, I am on Check out Jan’s Design resources, tips, articles, tutorials and plugins for Sketch A collection of design content, stories, tips, articles, tutorials on Sketch and prototyping

What is While everyone seems to have different definitions of Indeed, we see plentiful examples of so-called “digital craft” all around us nowadays. From elegant wearables hanging off our wrists, quantifying our daily movements…to electric sedans flying down the highway, keeping us ecologically conscious…to a comprehensive visual design system that ties disparate screens and displays into a unified whole. There is this exquisite purity of the form, as a complete  final object. Craft here is a visceral expression of pride of making  materiality. It is a benchmark in its own right — to say something is “well-crafted”…or embodies a sense of “craftsmanship” worthy of our praise.However, the context we’re discussing today is Enterprise UX —a far cry from the crisp clarity of So, how do we reconcile these seemingly opposing concepts of Craft  Enterprise UX?That is the question before us, so let me try to answer…I suggest we shift our thinking about craft towards something I call a To demonstrate, I’ll share three stories of how I have used craft in this way. I shall identify some common qualities, and ultimately arrive at how “wicked craft” in effect becomes a participatory process for teams.Now, before I continue with my stories, let me first be very clear:Absolutely! As a mentor once told me, if you’re gonna sell a product for a million bucks — and let’s face it, many Enterprise app installations cost quite a bit — well, it better look like a million bucks. Precise care must be applied to every font, button, color, icon, interaction state or transition. And it’s not for some poetic sense of beauty — I mean, that’s important, too! This instills confidence in the buyer, the CIO or whoever, that they are getting a good product for their money. After all, nobody wants to buy — or use, if it’s the knowledge worker depending on this app for 8–10 hours a day, 5 days a week to get their work done— a sloppy product. This approach has guided leading enterprise firms like IBM, Citrix, Salesforce, and others in this field. And this has led to winning hearts  minds, cultivating “good will” (or tolerance) from users that translates to customer loyalty reflected in social media (tweets and likes, so forth)…as well as, of course, bottom line financial returns in terms of revenues and profits. This has been cited many times, as we know.OK. So, creating a beautiful, high quality product still matters in Enterprise UX. Now what?Well, the path to getting to that high quality object is a rather circuitous and meandering journey, often difficult and frustrating, as we deal with a variety of opinionated, even cynical, stakeholders with issues that constitute the “wickedness” of Enterprise UX. There’s a swirling mess of constraints, contingencies, compromises, channels, and so forth. Let’s break it down a bit — what are some core elements that define the challenges of an Enterprise UX situation? Maybe this will give us a clue to how to use craft effectively…Whew! This can all make your head spin, losing your sense of focus and priority. How does craft figure into all this, again?Tangible forms naturally force everyone to react, thus become facilitative anchors to Long ago, as a junior designer at Oracle in their UI standards group, I was firmly challenged by a business group GM to “fix up” a messy e-business web-based application UI. But it was more than fixing the interface, of course. As the earnest, dutiful young designer wanting to make a big first impression, I reacted by mapping out the entire application UI architecture, as a massive — yet nicely annotated with polite questions — 7 foot long diagram! I printed it all out, rolled it up and took it up to the GM’s office. At that review, faced with this monstrosity of an artifact, the surprised (okay, slightly annoyed too!) GM then took a broader strategic view of the problem, re-evaluating the situation, thus improving the resource allocation and timeframe overall.More recently at Citrix, I had the good fortune to work directly with the CEO and his top execs on a new product. Brimming with ideas and enthusiasm, Mark Templeton would always like to sketch out his thoughts on paper or whiteboard. He has a rare natural affinity for sketching, putting his abstract thoughts down for others to play with. So, in this case for me it was less about reacting but more about interpreting and translating these 100,000 foot level insights into something tangible, expressed as an interface or product solution. You’ve heard of “Dancing with the Stars”? Well, this was “Dancing with the CEO” (and execs), taking turns leading and following, in an interpretive fashion. We went back and forth from sketch to mockups to storyboards to a cardboard prototype…all in an interpretive dance, a dialogue of understanding intents and goals, creating experiments that led to a final design direction. Finally, last year I was “head of UX” at an Enterprise Big Data startup — which is a fancy way to say, I was really a team of one, designing everything! Working with a team of brilliant, eager data scientists and highly motivated founders, I knew I couldn’t just do my own designs in isolation. I needed to tap into everyone’s collective wisdom of the market, features, and so forth. But we had too many opinions and cooks in the kitchen! So we held team design sessions, first with sticky notes in a coordinated manner defining the qualities of the targeted users, as personas. This forced everyone to put their ideas on paper and defend them. Second, we mapped out on a large whiteboard the objects, actions, and relationships of key elements of the app, to tease out conflicts and overlaps — yes, many of them! This included defining the business model and value prop, too. So, those are three stories of how I successfully used craft as a facilitative anchor in a variety of ways to resolve some sticky Enterprise UX issues — Reactive, interpretive, and collaborative.If you were paying close attention, you might notice some common threads — three in particular…First, all these artifacts are Second, these artifacts are intended to Finally, craft as a facilitative anchor Yet there is one more thing…Ultimately the value of craft in this way is to In effect, you are role modeling good behavior for our non-UX colleagues to emulate, and embody into their own work, which affects our work too — it’s a virtuous cycle! The facilitative power of craft is what makes craft have a place  role in Enterprise, tapping into something primal or human about all this — we love to make things, and show them off. And in this case go that extra step — to dig into what’s meaningful about the wicked problem to solve. This is how craft works in the enterprise, helping to create something beyond what anyone had originally imagined, together. Thank you.Design catalyst / leader / speaker / teacher. Always striving to bring beauty  soul to digital experiences.

by This May, we traveled to San Antonio, Texas to attend Rosenfeld Media’s first-ever At Salesforce, we make sure to adopt communication styles and methods that are most effective with stakeholders. This might take some humility. As much as in-house design teams would like to be seen as the ultimate authorities on design, an outside perspective may sometimes prove the most successful. If you’re based in an area with a big design community, take advantage of that native expertise — and share your own.While traditional market research can report on people’s explicit preferences and needs, people have a harder time articulating deeper desires and aspirations. This emotional side is design research’s forte. Goto contrasted big data (the Shedroff focused on the Let’s face it: enterprise software historically has not successfully integrated meaning, emotion, and identity into UX designs. As an industry, we have a lot of work to catch up to the best of our consumer counterparts. At Salesforce, we complement traditional user testing with rapid ethnography to increase our understanding of our users’ worlds. However, it’s easy to get caught up in the Enterprise UX was a fantastic opportunity to see how other teams are tackling the challenges of Likewise, Here at Salesforce, we have a growing Design Systems team that is busy crafting a design system not just for our own products and teams, but for the vibrant ecosystem of partners and customers that build on our platform. Through our Another common theme was the importance of cross-functional collaboration to success in enterprise software development. We heard this constantly from presenters at companies like Citrix, Paypal, GE, and IBM, as well as from fellow attendees on the floor and in the official conference Slack.The so-called “After the conference, we’re inspired to take this collaboration further. We want our designers and researchers to work closely with product managers to learn about the business side of our products. We should work even more with engineers to better understand How might enterprises embrace the To reinvent their checkout experience, Paypal formed lean UX/engineering teams to rapidly prototype and test new ideas. These teams stressed the importance of constant learning. Scott also presented Netflix as an example of a company that embraces experimentation by focusing on the customer and strategically carving a path to Building further on the value of experimentation, His solution: As Salesforce continues to grow, it is easy to shift our focus from innovation to production. We want to deliver exciting new features to our customers in each release. With more release cycles, we have less time to explore new concepts and ideas.To tackle this, we leverage our internal UX prototypers and dedicated UX Engineering team to achieve the Thanks to everyone at Rosenfeld Media for a great conference, especially Lead Product Designer at A collection of stories, case studies, and ideas from Salesforce UX

Convenhamos: UX Designers são pessoas incríveis. Além de serem inteligentes, curiosos por natureza, educados e estudiosos, UXers são pessoas de bom coração, que precisam saber criar empatia com outras pessoas para que seu trabalho dê certo.Já trabalhei com centenas de pessoas durante esses anos todos de profissão, e posso dizer que dos poucos colegas de trabalho que se tornaram amigos pessoais, meus favoritos são os UX Designers.Explico:Profissionais de UX são treinados para querer o bem dos outros. Trabalham longas horas todos os dias para deixar a vida das outras pessoas mais fácil, mais simples, mais divertida e mais produtiva. Deixam de lado gostos pessoais para tomarem decisões baseadas no gosto e nas necessidades das pessoas que realmente usarão o produto – e ainda ficam bravos quando outros designers, desenvolvedores ou gerentes de projeto resolvem não levar em conta a opinião deles na hora de tomar decisões de design. Saber colocar as prioridades dos outros acima de suas próprias é um sinal de nobreza, cavalheirismo e espírito de equipe.Antes de tomar decisões precipitadas, o UX Designer é treinado a observar. Observar como as pessoas se comportam, ouvir o que elas pensam, e até a questionar quando sentem que algo está errado. Chegam a criar verdadeiros rituais (ou métodos) para descobrirem do que as pessoas realmente precisam.Normalmente UX Designers pensam muito antes de falar ou dar sua opinião sobre algo. Eles entendem da relatividade das coisas e sabem que o que é verdade absoluta hoje pode não passar de ilusão no dia seguinte – e essa capacidade de reaprender vinda da observação é algo que pouquíssimas pessoas possuem.Eles são tão curiosos e atenciosos na hora de observar, que aprendem até a ler expressões faciais ou intenções que não chegaram a ser verbalizadas – no melhor estilo “Se a pessoa resolver trabalhar com UX, assumiu um compromisso vitalício com a curiosidade. UX Designers são seres estudiosos, que gostam (e precisam) entender como as coisas funcionam nos mínimos detalhes. Do tipo que quando era criança desmontava relógios e depois os montava de novo, só para entender como aquela engenhoca toda funciona.Não se achar o dono da verdade é um exercício diário de humildade e auto-conhecimento. Ao invés de querer ter resposta para tudo na ponta da língua, o UX Designer é o cara que prefere abaixar a cabeça, assumir que não sabe a resposta e então mover montanhas para encontrá-la.Quando um UX Designer coloca uma interface à prova (seja em um teste de Pela própria natureza de sua profissão, UX Designers sabem que dependem dos outros membros do time para fazerem suas ideias tomarem forma. Já falamos por aqui que um design só é bom se o desenvolvedor for bom, e um bom UX Designer sabe bem disso. A mesma coisa vale para gerentes de projetos, planejadores, redatores, visual designers – e por aí vai. Por Esses são só alguns dos aspectos que fazem dos UX Designers pessoas que você pode querer ter por perto. Toda regra tem exceções, obviamente, mas a maioria dos UXers que conheço acabam carregando muitas dessas qualidades da vida profissional para a vida pessoal – afinal, nos dias de hoje essas duas coisas se misturam bastante e uma ajuda a dar forma à outra.Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

I’m not a very big fan of Apple products and iOS. May be due to the fact that I like to have more control over my devices and software. But I really admire Steve Jobs for his focus on design and user experience. It is this approach that drives sales, customers satisfaction and make a product to be iconic. I truly believe that nowadays while producing a product or service companies MUST create great design, awesome interfaces and amazing user experience. After having experience with an apple product, there is no way for a regular consumer to return back to falsely awkward not clever designed systems. Just remember first smartphones like Compaq iPaq with early Windows Mobile. It was long before the iPhone era. But only after making a smartphone to look good, user friendly, easy to use and overall providing great experience it became hugely adapted device. The same with tablets. I remember Bill Gates presenting first HP on Windows tablet years before iPad. So, it would be useful to paraphrase “Sex Sells” into “Design Sells”.Entrepreneur, hacker, speaker, and traveler. Passionate about startups w/ great tech that makes life better. Always ready to help and disrupt. Read a lot.Entrepreneur’s (13) notes, who is traveler and explorer, founder or RocketStart and Gallerum, enjoy sports, photography, design, technology, good book, good cigar and good Islay malt whisky.

This is the age of ecommerce where we can buy anything from a hair pin to a house online. Online shopping has many advantages as compared to offline shopping, one of them being able to see what other buyers of the product are saying i.e. customer reviews and ratings. You can read about some interesting insights from customer ratings on Flipkart, Amazon and Snapdeal in myWhile ratings are a short indication of how good or bad a product is, reviews are more detailed feedback of the product. They should ideally help you take informed decisions whether to buy a product or not; but are they?Let us analyze customer reviews for Moto E on Flipkart. Moto E has an overall rating of As we can see, most complaints are about As you can see, all these positive reviews talk about the budget. Yes, this phone has great specs at this price range. If you are looking for a cheap smartphone and don’t mind it being a little slow, this is a great choice.Some other interesting insights from these reviews:Tripadvisor asks people to rate hotels on different parameters as shown in this screenshot. So, if I am a traveler who is most bothered about location, I may go ahead with this hotel even if it scores a little less in other areas. This can be replicated for ecommerce sites where people can rate a product on certain pre-defined parameters for that product category. For instance, a mobile phone can be rated on Performance, Battery, Features, Camera, Storage and Value for Money. However, this may not be a scalable solution because of the wide range of products and product categories.Imagine if we can perform Natural Language Processing (NLP) and pluck out positive stuff from happy customers and negative stuff from unhappy customers and show them on the ratings, it will help us decide what features of the product made people happy and what made them sad.It can also be used to suggest other products and do better cross selling.One can even explore a different navigation pattern for showing a list of products based on customer preferences. This is particularly useful for people who don’t have a specific product in mind but just have a rough idea of what they want in the product.It can also be used to create buying guides for cameras, speakers, ACs etc. Obviously, there is so much more that we can do with NLP on customer reviews.To extend this further, lets say you selected a phone but you want to know more about battery life and heating issues. So, you may want to read reviews of people on these particular attributes of the product to take a call.Sr. UI / UX Designer at Housing.com. I do a bunch of interesting things in design/web/startups. More on raviteja.in.Reviews, journeys and analysis about using Indian websites, apps and services. Also thoughts and writings by Indian UXers/Design Thinkers.

Empathy. Yes, empathy! Empathy allows us to relate to others. And for design, to put ourselves in others’ shoes to try to understand how we can make the product we’re working on work for them. If you want to be a UX Designer, understand that not every product you work for will only be made for you.The realization of the importance of UX couldn’t have come at a worse time. With people taking selfies at funerals, it’s probably safe to say that twenty-somethings (including me) could work on their empathetic ability.All is not lost. You just have to practice. Honing an ability like empathy is a never-ending process and will change the way you think, and how you interact with others.The first step is to start asking why for everything; not out loud, you don’t want anyone thinking that you’re crazy. Ask yourself why you do what you do. Realize your strengths, weaknesses, insecurities and fears. Because when you can understand yourself and why you do what you do, you can begin to understand other people.My fellow introverts will have an easier time with this, and probably have a fair hold on the first step. But don’t despair extroverts, after you “master” the first step, the second will be easier for you.The next step is to get away from you fucking computer. Get away from your computer, and your pens/pencils. Go outside and meet people. Just talk to random people and ask as many questions as possible about them, without being creepy. Make new friends.Make it as random as possible. You’re not trying to meet people who are the same as you. I know, it sounds weird and difficult. I, thankfully, have a wife who lovingly forces me to meet all kinds of new people every week,which makes it a lot easier.If you don’t happen to have my wife around to force you into new situations, or you’re unwilling to walk up to strangers and strike up conversation, the next best thing is to volunteer. Find something locally that piques your interest and volunteer a couple hours every week or two. Even the SPCA will work. Just keep in mind that your goal is to interact with Remember that UX Design is about the user experience; about people. You’ll never be a great at it until you can empathize.Product designer 

I remember his face; dark hair and round brown eyes, Greek. He had applied for a junior UX designer role. I asked him why he wanted to leave his current job, and he launched into a super story of politics at his workplace. I felt sorry but work is political, no getting away from that but the extent to which politics affect you and how is another thing. I couldn’t bear to hire him over the other candidate (aside from the fact that he didn’t bother ‘glancing’ at the company site) who showed a lot of creativity and…spirit. Ultimately we want a worker in our cabal not a whiner. I was a rookie, but I had a clear idea of who I wanted to work alongside, this is important.If I were to hire a UX intern now as someone recently asked me, the two questions I would ask would be; The second question is As someone who will also be interviewed in future, I hope I will, along with other things like humility and passion, take my own advice.{{Spes Mea in Deo}} UX Professional, Designer, StoryMaker, Traveller. Curator of 

Take pride in your But don’t defend it.If you test your People who say your UX and design work is perfect when you test it aren’t paying attention. Test it again.People who find what you left out or ask why X happens the way it does are helping you see where your thoughts end, and theirs begin.Listen to them.They are right.They are the users.You are making things for them.Notesexperience architecture = ux + ixd + ia + content strategy #becauseawesome how, when, where, why, who

So what does psychology have to do with it? When it comes to user experience, almost everything.With so many device types and sizes and so many different ways to design websites for those devices, the user experience a designer creates is what determines overall success of the site and whether a user will return.User psychology is the science behind what people want and need when they visit a website or mobile app. Psychology is rooted in everything from whether a user trusts your brand to how they feel about the message you are trying to convey.And design is a big part of that. Everything from color to images to patterns to how the site works Each of these elements should ultimately lead to an action from the user. Most psychology textbooks reference triggers that cause people to act and react. Those triggers also apply to web design, and even more particularly to mobile design, where a user almost always has to physically interact with a website to make something happen, such as the swipe or tap fingers on the screen.While the triggers are the same regardless of the device, the user experience is not. Users overwhelmingly want the content to be the same regardless of device, but have different ideas of how to use and interact with that content.Desktop websites are for reading and perusing. The reading and information gathering process may result in an action, but users often have a distinct reason for going to a website, such as work. Not all of these experiences are based on entertainment or pleasure and most of them may not be.Desktop users are relatively still in their online interactions as well. Every action is done with a keyboard or mouse. There’s just not a lot of actual physical interaction with the device. (Few users will ever touch the screen.)The user experience for mobile is significantly different. Users constantly touch the device — casing and screen. So the size of these elements and how they feel are quite important. This use of physical touch makes designing elements on the screen especially important, because they must be easy to touch, unlike desktop versions where the mouse click is always the same size.Mobile device users often access websites with different intents. Entertainment or task completion activities are more common than reading and research actions. (Just think of how often you pull out your phone to play a game in line at the grocery store or respond to a text message.)Physical differences also impact the psychology of mobile design. You have to consider lighting conditions, device size and touch options. How will these elements come together for an actual user?It all comes down to a central question: What does the mobile user want and expect?Unlike with desktop websites, where users expect a visually dynamic and engaging experience that is relatively two-dimensional, mobile users want everything to feel real and live in the three-dimensional space.Mobile users have come to expect certain things from the interface:The actual secret is combining triggers and user expectations; then design for them. Let’s break down a few examples of sites that do this well and how they combine triggers and mobile expectations for an excellent user experience.Most users want and expect to find the same website content regardless of device, but they do often want the user experience to be tailored to the device they are using.This device-specific user experience will help increase user loyalty and those good feelings that most website owners hope users feel about them. Simply put, having a good desktop and experience Design for users by optimizing how they feel about, use and interact with their devices.Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

Quem ainda não ouviu falar em UX, ou no design focado naÉ bem verdade que o bom design, além de solucionar problemas, gera uma boa experiência. Mas daí a concluir e pregar que a função do design é Porque é isso. UX não é uma área nova do design. UX é o resultado do design.User Experience é um termo que vem perdendo o real sentido, chegando às raias da vulgaridade. Mas isso é esperado em uma época em que o próprio conceito de design está sendo diluído e qualquer um que “mexe no Photoshop” se nomeia designer (mas isso é assunto para outro post).Donald Norman (se você não o conhece, nem deveria estar procurando atuar na “área de UX”) disse anos depois de ter criado o termo User Experience:Percebam que Norman inventou o termo para agrupar e se referir a um conjunto de disciplinas que já existiam. Isso significa que UX não é uma novidade, não é uma nova modalidade, muito menos uma profissão. É uma palavra para denominar um conjunto de É hora de parar de absorver tanto conhecimento e “modismos” de palestras de meia hora e questionar tudo o que vem como verdades absolutas. A primeira grande questão que não é refletida é:Quando se fala de Experiencia de Usuário, o público já faz uma série de suposições sobre o significado dessa expressão. O resultado é que a maioria associa Experiência com facilidade em lidar com uma interface, navegação bem projetada, boa arquitetura de informação, usabilidade, acessibilidade, por aí vai. São questões técnicas; importantes, sim, para o design, porém, não se aproximam muito do lado Onde fica a sensação que as formas, cores, texturas e odores proporcionam? Ou talvez os benefícios do uso? Onde entra o design emocional na Experiência do Usuário? Existem sites totalmente funcionais, que resolvem o problema do seu público, tem boa usabilidade, mas tem uma interface sofrível. Existem outros com bela aparência, cores e bons efeitos de interação, mas que não agregam nenhum valor em sua função. Um cliente pode valorizar um ou outro desses aspectos, mas cabe ao designer se preocupar com todos eles.Uma boa abordagem sobre UX irá considerar uma boa ou a totalidade das aplicações do design descritas acima, ou mais. Afinal, UX é um apanhado de tudo o que um designer precisa pensar para seu projeto não ser desagradável e, quem sabe, ser o favorito do seu gênero entre os usuários. Meu questionamento é quanto a validade do termo como ele é usado hoje.Comparo aqui o design com literatura, que agrega valor de acordo com o efeito causado na psique do leitor. É a experiencia de ler que TALVEZ cause um grande impacto e mude pessoas. Mas você não escreve uma experiência, isso é impossível. Você escreve usando recursos linguisticos diversos, escolha correta de palavras, estilo e estrutura de frases a fim de transmitir algo. A experiência vai depender da capacidade do leitor de abstrair, das experiencias que ele já teve com o assunto abordado e com as metáforas utilizadas, com a vivência com o proprio idioma. Vai depender do esforço mental. Além disso, interfere nessa experiência de leitura o projeto gráfico, o tipo e a gramatura do papel, a tipografia, até mesmo o cheiro de papel novo que tantos amam.A experiência de ler depende de inúmeros fatores que fazem com que seja uma vivência única para cada leitor. Não se pode juntar um recém-alfabetizado, um estudante de ensino médio e um formado em letras e esperar de ambos a mesma reação, aprendizado e experiência ao ler Borges, Machado ou Clarice.Da mesma forma, é impossível Acredito que essa onda terminológica e conceitual seja algo mercadológico e passageiro. O mercado adora velhas novidades, vestidas de nomes atraentes para lotar palestras, cursos, seminários e currículos, além de ajudar a instigar concorrencia e filtrar candidatos a vagas de emprego. E UX será logo substituído por outra coisa em pouco tempo.Também creio que o UX se tornou uma questão muito mais técnica do que de sensibilidade para com o usuário. Embora possamos, com muita pesquisa e estudo, nos aproximar de um design que possibilite uma excelente experiencia, temos que levar em consideração que cada cabeça é uma sentença. Cada um interpreta botões, cores, proporções, contrastes, fontes de forma diferente.Nosso papel não é projetar experiência, mas sim oferecer condições para que uma boa experiência seja construida no intelecto do usuário. A partir de um certo ponto da interação, isso dependerá mais dele e de suas experiencias anteriores com o mundo, do que de nós. Afinal, quem pensamos que somos para ditar como será a experiencia de alguem com determinado produto? Não estamos sendo presunçosos demais ao achar que Tudo isso me lembra Jung, que quando discipulo de Freud, discordou do psicanalista quando este ignorava o histórico do paciente e aplicava suas interpretações como se fossem absolutas e universais. Para Jung, “conheça todas as teorias, domine todas as técnicas, mas ao tocar uma alma humana, seja apenas outra alma humana”. É algo que tem faltado no mercado. Almas humanas fazendo design.É dever do designer se antecipar e se preocupar com questões que o cliente não se preocupa, e criar um ambiente que proporcione possibilidades da melhor experiência possível. A experiência faz parte do resultado do design. Logo, a  No fim, o que nos sobra são histórias para contar  Flerto com filosofia, porém infiel. Preguiça: sim. Transgênero/Genderfluid. Qualquer pronome.As perguntas e respostas que designers adoram sempre refazer. Questionamentos de paradigmas, filosofia do design, anti-design, design crítico, design livre, subversão e teorias e reflexões pessoais podem ser inclusos aqui.

Contextual UX is the use of context-aware technologies that allow us to design and build experiences that are personalized to meet unique needs of the individual user based on specific situation or context of use. Before we start, let’s look at two of the primary concepts that define the user experience from a human-computer interaction (HCI) perspective, explicit and implicit interaction.User experiences requires context and they are changed by context.With our real-time connected world of devices we are quickly moving away from task-oriented UX to contextual UX, where systems and devices begin to learn and adapt to our needs based on specific situations, location and context of use. Technology is allowing us to weave and interconnect simple active and passive devices into more complex, adaptive systems that can meet user needs and are personalized and delivered based on real-time cues. We can look at all this as the “internet of things”; common terms used are “ubiquitous computing” or “ubicomp” and “ambient” devices.A quick example of this is the website Contextual UX can also be hidden and out of the way until you need it. With Another example is On average, a user will start a task on one With coherence, the product needs to look and function the same between devices and platforms. Core feature sets are present in every variant of the product and the user can begin and complete tasks regardless of device or platform.The Evernote mobile app integrates the camera to record notes and events, while the desktop version provides the user with a greater ability of edit and catalog entries.The In order for devices or contextual UX to happen, we need to allow systems to adapt to the collected data. The Google Now eliminates the need for the user to check traffic conditions, plan an alternate route (if necessary) and to check the time. As UX designers, we can build similar applications that solve simple problems. Take, for example, checking out a book from a public library. As the user checks out the Add a few sensors into the book and the book can send notifications to the user that they have not picked up or opened the book and remind the user that they should “read me!” or notify the user that the book needs to be returned to the library by a set date.The future of contextual UX through the use of context-aware technologies will allow us to design and build user experiences that are personalized, relevant and feel natural to the user. These user experiences are evolving to take interactions into the background, to be ambient, situational and temporal. User experiences will not need to be online, they will already be here by removing the barriers between the real world and the digital world.Follow me on twitter: Dad, Educator  UX Designer with a focus on Mobile Design. Coffee aficionado, kettlebell killer, avid cyclist, all-round pirate and HTML5 Evangelist.Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Kelly Jepsen suggests My remarks shouldn’t detract from his; rather, I hope my remarks shed some light on why user experience design is a difficult thing to execute well, especially the first time.When I first saw Kelly’s door, it immediately reminded me of The handle suggests ‘pull’ while the label states ‘push’. Similarly, the door proposed by Kelly as exemplary of UX design has a plate which suggests ‘push’ but also Consider Only Hinges are hidden on the other doors, all of which swing inward or away from you (‘push’).If I were to modify Kelly’s door, or in UX terms With the exterior hinges removed, my brain — which is accustomed to encountering other doors of similar design — quickly analyzes the overall design of the door and more clearly thinks ‘push’.This is why user experience design is often extremely difficult to “get it right” the first time. Every creator, and every user of that creator’s work, adds a littany of experiential baggage to the equation. Culture, intuition, previous experience, personal preferences, physical limitations, and so on. No user experience will ever cater perfectly to every user, and sometimes not even close with the first attempt.In the end, throwing something on the wall, putting a functional prototype in front of testers, or deploying a live version in the wild… all of these are the What must follow, then, is —Founder of 

UX Designers are at the forefront of designing websites and apps that can solve problems in healthcare, business and even raise funds for a global crisis like Nepal’s earthquake.If you want to transition into user experience design, here are five tips to kickstart your design career if you come from a non-UX-related field.It’s going to take hard work and perseverance to get into UX Design if you’ve never had any experience. It doesn’t mean it can’t happen. If you come from a non-design related field, don’t worry, embrace it. There isn’t a straight path to UX Design.Most job descriptions for a User Experience Designer require a Bachelor’s degree in Human Computer Interaction, when in fact, you don’t need UX Design or an HCI degree to get started. In 2014, the I worked in digital advertising for two years before getting into UX. At night, I read books, worked on side-projects, and crafted a portfolio to get my foot in the door. After two years in digital advertising, I quit my job to pursue a UX career.Are you happy with where you are in your career right now?Do you want to grow and be challenged? Do you want to be creative and solve real problems? If you are considering a career switch, step back and ask yourself key questions:This could be a design position at an agency so you can be exposed to many different types, processes and industries. Or this could be a design position at a young startup where there’s little process and you discover what works best through trial and error.If you believe in innovation and disruption, you may want to work for a start-up. If you believe in tradition, structure and clearly defined processes, you may like working for a corporation like Accenture or Deloitte.If you are passionate about music, you can target Spotify, Rdio, Soundcloud and other companies in the music industry. If you like fashion, you can target NastyGal, Gap or Polyvore.User Experience Design is a multi-faceted discipline. Here’s a brief summary of 5 disciplines within the UX profession:This simple framework is designed to get you a foothold in the UX Design world so that you can build a foundation of design vocabulary and the design process.How do you get started? Do a design deep dive that identifies a problem and solves it. Your overall goal is to make an app more human and to also solve a business goal. The business goal can be to increase engagement, retention or activation.Now that you have side project going, put your work on a personal website. This is where you can share your portfolio to the design community and get feedback. Refine it. Get feedback. Create more projects and keep a running blog. This is the #1 thing that can help you get your foot in the door. It shows employers your design process and how you can solve problems.User experience sits at the core of design for mobile apps and websites. If you take these 5 steps, bake it into your week, you are on your way to becoming a UX Designer.Want to learn how to grow your career as a woman in tech? Download the free The Customer Success Platform

You’ve seen this before. The app tries to teach everything right from the beginning, expecting the user to remember everything and still want to go through a signup process afterwards. This is So, let’s look at a few effective ways to accomplish this.Here’s the gist: introduction screens should The first page should be the absolute simplest function. Don’t do anything fancy, don’t give the user Here’s one tactic for getting the user to learn more about your app: use notification bubbles. Why is this so powerful? Because it doesn’t shove information in the user’s face, it prompts them to (This is While I was browsing the app, I came across a card that told me to try swiping up. Right then and there I learned a new feature of the app.This is Even if you click it just to get rid of the tutorial, it doesn’t matter. You now know more about the functionality of the product.This is Facebook (obviously). When something is disabled because of permissions, the page is replaced with a quick tutorial on how to fix that.This is an ingenious use of space! Instead of having an error message, you tell the user what to do next.This is So when the user is using it, you won’t see the tutorial, when the user isn’t using it, you will see the tutorial. Brilliant!These are just a few of the tons and tons of ways to familiarize your user with your product. The point I want to get across is that having an elaborate tutorial is Remember the 90 - 10 rule: iOS Developer, UX/UI Designer, Mythbusters Fan

This post is a brief follow-on to a great post by The solution to this problem is to create small cross-functional teams that are tasked with solving customer problems via products or services. This concept is well articulated in Jeff Gothelf and Josh Seiden’s book The value of cross-functional teams cannot be denied. They are a significant step forward that every organization should take in order to innovate and learn fast. However, the creation of cross-functional teams has a paradoxical side-effect that might recreate a different version of the problem that they were designed to solve. At a recent Lean Coffee event at Pearson, a colleague raised concerns about being in a cross-functional team, but being unaware of what is happening in other cross-functional teams in the organization.It struck me that as we have removed the handoffs in the waterfall system by creating cross-functional teams; we have inadvertently created a different type of silo; the product silo or knowledge silo. When there is no need for handoffs, the cross-functional team can become insular and separated from other cross-functional teams in the organization. As the team works to meet its goals and succeed, insular behaviour can become the norm. This can become a particular challenge if the team is cohesive and works well together.And yet, there is a value in having cross-pollination between cross-functional teams. There are many lessons being learned everyday within cross-functional teams about customers, markets, business environments, implementation challenges and best practice. Indeed, one cross-functional team may be struggling with implementing Lean UX, and within the same organization another cross-functional team may have a simple solution for that exact challenge. But unless there is a platform for these teams to connect, the organization has essentially created cross-functional silos!At the Lean Coffee, some solutions to this challenge were proposed:1) 2) 3) 4) Depending on the company and the nature of the work it does, some of the above solutions may not work for you. However, it is important to recognize the challenge of cross-functional silos and tackle it head-on. Bespoke solutions can then be created for your specific context. Please share other solutions to cross-functional silos that you have either implemented or seen in other organizations. Looking forward to your comments.Author, Consultant, Entrepreneur. Lean Innovation Management for Large Corporates. Startup Advisor and Mentor (Strategic Innovation Management For Large Companies

Из опыта работы в проекте “Симкомат”.В последнее время в проектировании интерфейсов мне более интересно становится направление физических устройств и сервисов. Есть желание применять свои знания не только для проектирования, скажем, сайтов или мобильных приложений, но участвовать в разработке экосистем из софтовых и железных решений и взаимодействия с этими системами.Первый шаг в эту сторону я уже сделал и в 2014 году работал над А теперь рассмотрим процесс немного подробнее (здесь я приведу только базовые экраны, чтобы вам был понятен ход подключения).На данный момент несколько работающих симкоматов стоят в Москве и Екатеринбурге.Отвечая на вопрос ““Симкомат” — проект инновационный, и новации скорее относятся к процессу (до нас автоматизацией выдачи SIM-карт никто не занимался). В связи с этим Симкомат состоит из более чем 10 сложных устройств различных производителей (принтер, сканер, купюроприемник и пр.), а также нашего производства (ручковыдаватель, сканер паспорта), и работа с устройствами влечет за собой следующее:Я думаю, этого описания особенностей должно хватить, чтобы вы представили сложности при работе с железом.Наш интерфейс получил возможность простой кастомизации: два цвета (основной и дополнительный) и логотип.Также кастомизуруемый контент:Несмотря на то, что в нашем проекте три больших направления для проработки UX, Далее перейдем к непосредственному процессу разработки и прежде всего рассмотрим Мы могли бы спроектировать супер UX, основанный на алгоритме, который по анализу внешнего вида человека с помощью видеокамеры подберет и настроит идеальный для него тариф, но увы, даже с простым вариантом а-ля выбор из существующего набора тарифов случились проблемы.На данный момент все тарифы предустановлены на SIM-картах. При этом существует три типа SIM-карт: стандартные, микро и нано. Получаем в результате, что для того, чтобы продавать хотя бы один тариф, нам необходимо 3 карддиспенсера (устройство выдачи карточек). Существуют в природе болванки SIM-карт в которых сразу три контура SIM-карты, для всех размеров. Но подобное решение не прижилось, потому что люди часто выламывали “симку” неправильно.Мы предложили схему, в которой в Симкомате находится два диспенсера: в одном диспенсере лежат SIM-карты с вырезами “стандарт + микро”, в другом “стандарт + нано”. При этом все SIM-карты имеют один и тот же стартовый тариф. Когда человек совершает покупку и выбирает нужный ему тариф, информация о его выборе отправляется на сервер и после идентификации человека (об этом расскажу дальше) происходит автоматическая бесплатная смена тарифного плана.В одной из версий интерфейса мы попробовали (вернее, были вынуждены по юридическим требованиям) объяснить человеку, как все это устроено. Но при тестировании мы поняли, что наши попытки провалились. Подобную концепцию сложно объяснить в принципе, а уж в терминале самообслуживания, учитывая контекст, почти невозможно.В другой версии мы постарались избавиться от всех объяснений и оставить простой выбор тарифа. Но переключение на выбранный тариф пришлось сделать ручным.Российским законодательством при покупке SIM-карты требуется предъявить паспорт. В этот момент происходит естественный для продавца процесс сличения личности покупателя с личностью хозяина паспорта. Но автомат сделать подобного действия не может. Поэтому мы фотографируем покупателя. Вместе с сканом паспорта эти данные отправляются на сервер. Специальный человек — модератор сличает два изображения. Только после этого, в случае положительного ответа, заявка отправляется дальше и происходит смена тарифа, как я описывал выше. Это занимает некоторое время и зависит от качества организации данного процесса (грубо говоря: от 15 минут до нескольких часов). В это время человек не сможет воспользоваться купленной SIM-картой.Выдача сдачи терминалами — это очень больной вопрос. Дело в том, что устройство, которое позволяет выдавать сдачу очень громоздкое и дорогое. Особенно, когда дело касается не только купюр, но и монет. Но если мы не будем выдавать сдачу, мы сильно ограничиваем возможности покупателей.Чтобы решить этот вопрос, мы внедрили в Симкомат платежную систему. С ее помощью мы можем не выдавать сдачу, а зачислять ее на счет купленной SIM-карты.Также, некоторые тарифы, которые продаются в Симкомате, могут стоить довольно дорого, например, 600 рублей и у человека может не оказаться этих денег. Одно из решений — это продать SIM-карту за ту сумму, которая у него есть, но активировать карту только после того, как человек пополнит ее баланс.Я привел пример некоторых концептуальных задач, которые очень сильно влияют на User Experience и которые нам приходится решать в процессе проектирования и разработки. Пытаясь сделать удобно, мы постоянно натыкаемся на ограничения, которые я описал выше, и вынуждены искать обходные пути и решения часто выглядят не так, как хотелось бы.Далее, в UX designer

The talented folks at Jared has identified several problems within design education today:In 2013 there were 150 thousand UX design jobs open in the US alone . For years UX designers have been sought after aggressively by companies, but the truth is there simply aren’t enough of us to fill the need. And the need will continue to increase.There is a gap between the skills hiring managers expect from fresh grads, and the skills students actually have at the time of graduation. This is not only an issue in the area of design, but rather across the board. This is a major way in which the US education system is failing our students. Chegg, the student hub, ran a study last year and the skills gap was in full display across the career spectrum, regardless of area or major (read a Jared highlighted the traditional theory based education in which students are given projects without real world constraints. There is no budget, no outside interference that may influence deadlines, no business goal, no upset client/boss etc… Most importantly, the projects are short and because of that, do not allow for the full design cycle or deeper thinking (a.k.a. real user feedback, deeper iterations etc…)Jared gave the example of responsive design and how it has been a major need across companies for years. But courses on it just began to be implemented into a few traditional universities this year. This delay happens because Universities need to get courses approved by, and that takes time.Students have more options  that is great.Center Centre is trying to be different than a traditional university D-school by working more like a vocational school. Not every student would want to go to Centre Center because they want a traditional university experience, but I think many will.I went through a traditional master in Students go to traditional programs full time and graduate with just student projects because their program does not offer an in-house consulting group like Bentley does. They are “green” when it comes to real world design experience.Center Centre seems to be a great fit for an ambitious “green” person to build design  soft skills while working in real world projects and being mentored by top notch design talent. This would help folks to be better prepared for the workforce.In his QA, Jared acknowledged Center Centre was a niche program to help create designers who are ready to execute as soon as they graduate. As 150 thousand open UX jobs in the US show, a desperately needed niche program.I am sure many hiring managers would be happy to hire students who come out of his program.Follow me on twitter: I am an inventor who tells stories through design. Now 

Aproveitando para responder a uma pergunta recorrente entre os leitores que me mandam emails: um dos briefings mais comuns que tenho recebido por aqui nos últimos meses é o de “fechar a ponte entre físico e digital”. O que de certa forma me inspirou a compartilhar alguns pensamentos sobre o assunto.Grandes marcas passaram as útimas décadas construindo uma Mais recentemente, essas mesmas marcas começaram a investir em Agora o desafio parece ser conectar esses dois mundos.O consumidor que pesquisa na loja virtual é o mesmo que depois de uns dias vai até a loja física verificar o produto de perto. Muitas vezes, É o equivalente ao velho discurso de que “na web, seu concorrente está a um clique de distância”. Mas agora nas lojas físicas.O fato é que esse hábito já virou realidade nas grandes cidades. Então como é que uma marca consegue se apropriar desse momento onde o consumidor está dentro da loja física com o celular em mãos? Como é que eu consigo adicionar uma camada digital de conteúdo / utilidade / interação ali naquele momento para garantir que o meu consumidor continue interessado em comprar ali na loja em que ele já está?As soluções variam bastante e estão apenas começando a surgir.Um exemplo prático que mostrei lá na palestra sobre Mobile UX no Google:O aplicativo de iOS da Apple Store é essencialmente uma loja virtual no celular. Mas quando o usuário se aproxima de uma loja física, o aplicativo oferece toda uma camada extra de informações e serviços que são específicos para aquela unidade — como por exemplo ofertas locais, tamanho da fila para ser atendido no Genius Bar, eventos e treinamentos que estão agendados ali na loja etc.Esse reconhecimento (de que o usuário está lá) pode ser feito por uma combinação inteligente de sensores: seja o GPS do celular, seja emissores iBeacon presentes na entrada da loja, seja quando o celular se conecta à rede de wi-fi do estabelecimento.De forma similar, o aplicativo da GAP tem um “modo especial” quando você está na loja física, que te mostra ofertas relevantes para você naquela loja baseadas no seu histórico de navegação online. Eu sei que você andou navegando online procurando por camisetas azuis, então te ofereço 20% de desconto em camisetas azuis ali dentro da loja física.O próprio Nike.com permite que você salve produtos no seu “carrinho de compras online” e, ao chegar na loja física, esses produtos já estão separados para você provar.Esses exemplos são os mais comuns, mas a criatividade do pessoal das agências já está indo bastante além dessa lista acima. A ponto de criar experiências inteiras onde o celular seja o que faz a ponte entre a experiência na loja física e a experiência que continua no meio digital:Se 2013 foi o ano de criar essa ponte (entre O prazo para conseguir fazer o arroz-com-feijão em mobile já está se esgotando. Agora é olhar para o futuro e ver como essa ponte mobile-digital-retail pode começar a gerar negócios. Aí sim o budget que as marcas dedicam a mobile começa a ganhar novos dígitos.Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

All too often, tech companies lack the writing staff to get copy written for every single interface, ad, and interaction. Which means that designers like you often end up speaking directly to customers. Here’s a few tips to help you make the most of your user interface copy, broken up into sections on writing, editing, and design.The word “you” automatically catches your attention, but even more importantly, it establishes a relationship between you and your reader. It brings your reader into the story you’re weaving. Not convinced? Let me rewrite that paragraph without “you”:The word “you” automatically catches attention, but even more importantly, it establishes a relationship to the reader. It brings the reader into the story.That’s a lot less engaging, isn’t it?Check out how often MailChimp uses “you” in this example copy from their MailChimp uses “you” 4 times in just 2 sentences!When you’ve worked hard to help create an amazing product, it’s tempting to tout that quality and craftsmanship. But why should I care? I want to know what all that work means to Apple routinely nails their marketing, but the body copy below is all about them. Wouldn’t it be more engaging if they talked about how much more incredible Amazing work, guys. But what does it mean for me?If you’ve got something smart to say, you don’t need 10 dollar diction to prove it. Choosing words based on how “big” they are can actually alienate more readers than it impresses.Unless you’re designing in a technical or academic environment, aim for a 5th-grade reading level. You can Often, what looks right on the page will sound awkward and robotic out loud. Do this especially if your brand voice guidelines call for a conversational style — as many do these days. If it doesn’t sound right read aloud, it’s not conversational.You know, the one who goes “I don’t care if it’s clever. And rhymes gracefully. And works as a dirty pun in Swahili. You don’t need it.” That guy. Or girl. Be him. Or her.Dedicate several rounds of editing To help you be ruthless, aim to Even people skilled at both try to practice them at different times, focusing on getting the ideas on the page before judging how well that was done. This is Don’t actually write drunk. Just don’t try to write and edit at the same time.And don’t expect to do all the editing yourself: even the best writers often benefit from a second pair of eyes. Especially when their writing eyes were drunk.It’s important as a designer to always have the messaging in mind so you can build a visual story that complements the copy. If you’re lucky enough to have someone totally focused on the copy side of that story, here’s a few tips to help you help them.People don’t know what they’re looking at unless you tell them. So tell them. You’ll find this handy if you’re serving dynamic content, because it helps readers determine what something is at a glance.It’s also super useful to think of headlines as labels. If a reader’s on a features page, chances are they’re more interested in what the product does than in how cleverly you can describe it.That’s not to say you can’t try to inspire or amuse sometimes. Just don’t do it at the expense of clarity.Most times, people don’t want to read every word on the page. In fact, they’re often just looking for a link. So make sure your links make it extremely clear what will happen on click.This is Here’s Google using specific link language:Way to let me know where that link will take me, Google.Almost every design decision impacts copy, so consider whether that impact is helping or hindering your writing.For example, that super-tall product shot is beautiful. No argument there. But remember that the copywriter has to balance that image out with copy — and does he or she really have that much to say about how Gorilla Glass is basically shatterproof and crystal clear — beyond And that 64pt Helvetica Neue Thin headline looks great as “Lorem ipsum dolor,” but can the copywriter really sum up your whole product suite in 3 words? It’s worth considering.When you’re trying to decide how long a page or section of a page should be, keep a simple rule of thumb in mind: And that trumps the old “keep it above the fold” rule. And yes, you can tell your marketer I said that.No doubt I did — copywriting’s a big topic. So if you want specific tips on anything copy-related, Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

It’s a question that I think about a lot (and hopefully, if you are in the UX field, you think about it too). Because the field of User Experience is relatively new, we spend a lot of time trying to define what a UX designerI want to be clear that I’m not interested in discussing the hard skills (coding, wire-framing, research methods, etc.) that make a good UX professional. Instead, I want to talk a bit about the soft skills that most good UX designers have. This list is not exhaustive; in fact, I’m only aiming to outline what I think are the top 5 characteristics. I am sure that you can think of many more.Above all else, good UX Designers have empathy for other people. You can see this in their daily lives. They ask how they can help when you are facing a difficult problem. They let others vent and they listen. They feel bad when they have to break plans. They are Empathy is incredibly important when trying to design software for other people to use. You need to understand their pains in order to design a solution that addresses those pains. When you approach a design problem, you immediately want to talk to people, observe them and truly understand where they are coming from. Honestly, you never spend more than a few hours designing something without asking for input (even if it’s just from co-workers).There is one catch with empathy. You want to listen to your users and solve their problems, but it is true that users don’t always know what they want. It’s important to listen Just as you are able to listen to user’s input and understand their needs, you are also able to listen to feedback on your work and not run and hide or become argumentative. This is really hard for a lot of people, especially when you’ve spent hours creating a hi-fidelity mockup (I would argue that you shouldn’t be doing this anyway, but that’s another article). Getting feedback and using it effectively gets easier with time.Good UX Designers are always asking for feedback- on designs, after a project ends, when they work with people in other roles. They are genuinely interested in how they can improve and become better designers. But they don’t just collect that information, read it, and then lock it away in the feedback vault. They use it. They take the time to think about the feedback they receive and they act on it — you can be pretty confident that if you give them honest feedback that they can act on, you’ll see improvements from them in the future.Adaptability is crucial in a world that is constantly changing and as we all know, the world of technology is changing by the second. Good UX designers don’t get too attached to their designs because they KNOW that things are always changing…and they are okay with that. If you aren’t okay with change, you probably shouldn’t be a UX Designer.UX Designers also need to be adaptable in how they work — they are problem solvers who need to work with multiple groups of stakeholders to find the right solution. They need to “fit in” when they pair with developers to tackle a design issue just as they need to “fit in” when they test with users. They need to gain the trust of many people and leverage their relationships to build the BEST solution possible.So this is an interesting one. I have worked with many different UX designers in my career so far and most of the really good ones I know have come from backgrounds that are not technology specific. I know many UX designers who have studied anthropology, psychology, history and other interesting liberal arts topics. They have traveled extensively, taken pottery classes, worked in the non-profit sector, or built their own pizza making oven in the backyard. They are people who never stop exploring.This is an incredible field because of the fact that you have all of these diverse minds coming together to solve problems —almost everyone who came to this career did it by choice. It’s not something you can very easily just slide into (although it does occasionally happen). It’s also not an easy job to train for — you have to really want to do it. Good UX designers have seen people use poorly made products and it makes them cringe. It pulls at their heart strings. Their career choice is often coming from a place of compassion.I owe #5 to Good UX designers approach problems collaboratively and not defensively and yes, they ADMIT when they don’t know the answer or when they are wrong. In other words, they show vulnerability and they are deeply honest. They ask questions to learn more and they take other people’s thoughts and opinions into consideration before gunning ahead. They look to developers, BAs, QAs, project managers and others for inspiration and ideas. They never think that they alone own the solution or that they should get the final word. Basically, they play nice. They cooperate and they show a humbleness that the team appreciates. This is not to say that they are passive — I hope I made that clear. They still fight for what they believe in, but they fight with an arsenal of humility. They don’t make bold claims and proclamations about what WILL happen, rather, they draw others in and rally for the best possible outcome.Okay, so these aren’t necessarily “steps” per say, but hopefully they are things to take into consideration when you are thinking about working with, hiring, or becoming a UX professional. I don’t know much, but I know I love you (sorry, I had to) and that I am damn lucky to call UX my profession and my home. 

A bunch of days ago I was on San Francisco, didn’t have an internet connection and needed to finish what I was working on…and I wanted a coffee too! I entered a coffee shop and sat close to the door. I spent there about two hours. From that strategic place, which I randomly occupied, I could see every person that entered or left the coffee shop.The first time it happened I didn’t gave it much importance: a guy with a coffee on his right hand and a sandwich on his left hand tried to open the bar door pushing with his body…unsuccessfully. After a moment of confusion he read the “pull” sign and changed the sandwich to his right hand to free the left hand and pull the door. His face expression was saying “you’re stupid, dude, read the signs”, and a guy in a table in front of me smiled like saying “ha, idiot…”.And then the same scene kept repeating on a on, again and again for the next two hours. It happened, and this is not an exaggeration, about fifty times in that period of time! And then It made me think about the real issue: was the issue that people ignore signs until they face a problem? Or is the problem that the door was designed against common sense?You normally enter a bar with your hands empty and leave it with things in your hands (when “takeaway” feature is supported)…Why would anyone make the door that way? It is easier to enter than to exit (that makes sense to lower the entrance barrier), but you’re making your customer’s lives much harder with that decision.In software development we make this kind of mistakes every day: we think that adding a warning message, users are not going to make a mistake. Or that showing a help message, they will understand our super complex user interface…but we fail to deliver the best experience…as the coffee owner.Sometimes we force our customers to “learn to think our way” and that’s a huge mistake that just shows our inability to implement an effective and natural user experience.A bunch of lessons about human behavior, product management and UX design that I extracted from this experience:Thanks for reading,Juan FernándezProduct Manager at Liferay, entrepreneur, husband, vocational musician, reader, thinker and traveler

← (Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Иногда в UX-дизайне ваша собственная точка зрения может негативно повлиять на качество работы. Ваши желания и опыт могут работать против пользователей. Поэтому сегодня тема нашего разговора:Прежде чем вы научитесь хорошо понимать пользователей, нужно уяснить пару вещей о самом себе:1) то, чего вы хотите, не имеет значения для пользователей2) то, что вы знаете, не имеет значения для пользователейС этой мыслью, помедитируйте минутку.Намасте.Если какое-то слово и недооценено в UX-дизайне, то это “Займитесь исследованиями. Пообщайтесь с пользователями. Изучите данные. Пообнимайте щеночков.Когда вы действительно Теперь вы один из них.*Слезинка*А суть UX — в создании дизайна для тех, кто знает гораздо меньше вас. Нет, не для тех, кто тупее вас. Для людей, которые меньше знают.Вы знаете, что ваш сайт станет мощнее, если отредактировать оформление, а пользователи — нет. Вы знаете, что категории меню называются так же, как и отделы вашей фирмы, а пользователи — нет. И вы знаете, что цены у вас такие высокие, потому что вы платите кучу денег за лицензионные сборы, а пользователи — нет.А пока они не знают, их это не волнует.А иногда их это не волнует, даже когда они Каждая карта описывает один принцип человеческого поведения и предлагает способы его применения в разработке веб-сайтов, веб-приложений, а также множества других систем, с которыми взаимодействуют пользователи.Выпустили Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

← (Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: О, наконец-то! Пришло время обсудить мозг пользователя. Как известно, нужно начинать с основ и постепенно углублять знания. Поэтому сегодня тема нашего разговора:Хороший дизайн отвечает на три мысленные вопроса пользователя:1) О чем речь?2) В чем выгода?3) Что дальше?Хорошо, когда заголовок или изображение (или и то, и другое) отвечают на мысленный вопрос пользователя: “о чем идет речь?”.Звучит достаточно просто, да? Но вы удивитесь, сколько веб-сайтов принебрегают этим простым правилом. Почему? Потому что Так о чем речь? Это у вас статья? Или форма регистрации? Вечеринка для любителей лимонов? Местечко, где можно посмотреть на коз? Сайт для тайных переписок?Просто скажите это. Напрямую. И простыми словами. Людям не понравится умник, который достает словарь в разгар вечеринки. Особенно любителям лимонов.В это вся суть построения опыта взаимодействия: что Вам лучше Если вам удалось хорошо ответить на вопрос К примеру: “Всемирная террористическая группировка уничтожает неверных и делится забавными мемами”.Заголовок рассказывает и в чем суть новости,Для компании, мотивация пользователей в миллион раз важнее, чем красота или удобство. Но часто ли вы говорим об этом на работе?Скажем, ваши пользователи поняли, о чем речь, и готовы узнать больше. На этом этапе важно, чтобы сам дизайн указывал им на следующий шаг.Это может быть что-то небольшое, вроде гиперссылки “куда нажимать?” или “как зарегистрироваться?”.Или что-то покрупнее, как, например, блок “с чего начать?”, “что еще купить?” или “где найти еще тренинги?”.Всегда есть “следующий шаг”. Иногда их даже несколько. Ваша задача — определить, что нужно пользователю и рассказать, как это получить.Каждая карта описывает один принцип человеческого поведения и предлагает способы его применения в разработке веб-сайтов, веб-приложений, а также множества других систем, с которыми взаимодействуют пользователи.Выпустили Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

A few weeks ago at the But I saw this event as an opportunity for a worthwhile challenge: There’s a masochistic quality to calling oneself a “UX Designer.” The very nature of what we do — simplifying screens, software, products, and customer interactions — means that our hard work is only recognized when we screw up. If we don’t do our job well and a product is confusing or difficult, it’s a clear user experience flaw. But if a product works perfectly, few people think of the UX designers behind it. So perhaps it’s no wonder that UX designers are working in I’ve worked for companies where the terms “UI” and “UX” were used interchangeably, and mistakenly — where people leading the product vision and roadmap couldn’t explain the different between branding and aesthetic and functional design.Even at some of the world’s most notable tech companies, like Facebook or Apple, “User Experience Design” as a discipline and title has been replaced by “product design” or “interaction design.” This misnaming is not an improvement — “product design” does not represent some grand fundamental difference, or and improvement on the thinking and culture of UX design from decades past. Yet this trend has taken hold, in large part I think because My talk was only five minutes long — that’s all I was given — but I’ve I believe ux design can change the world.

Finding the right startup to join is like looking for the right person to be in a relationship with: many possibilities, but few real options. My intermittent search in the past year has introduced me to many different ones, each with its own distinctive personality. I met them the same way anyone would meet a future partner: via mutual friends, acquaintances and matchmakers (yep—I’m not ashamed of it). Some of these interactions took place over email exchanges, some over coffee. Coffee dates led to trial dating periods. A few came very close to being the one with whom I could see a future.One of the first difficulties that I encountered was in defining what I am. I met many people who did not understand what is a UX designer (including designers themselves); that term meant different things to different people. Added to the confusion are the nuanced variations: interaction designers, UI designers, visual designers, graphic designers and web designers. In many discussions, I had to be explicit about what I do. For some, a designer meant someone who makes things look pretty. While that is part of what I do, it is a small part. For me, design is about how things work: I am interested in talking to people, diagnosing problems, creating potential solutions and making sure that the solutions are simple and easy-to-use. Much of that work does not involve selecting colors or typefaces or even pushing pixels on a screen; nor is it limited to web, desktop or mobile.At first, I always gave the disclaimer that I am not a visual designer because I can’t create icons and illustrations. This led me to undersell myself and invited people to doubt my abilities. Emphasizing my core strength led to the misunderstanding that my skills were limited to simply creating wireframes. My visual design style gravitates toward clean and simple interfaces, which led me to believe that I wasn’t good at visual design; that’s entirely wrong. My visual designs are just different—they enhance content instead of impressing people with their beauty. The most effective way that I found to communicate my abilities was in creating a portfolio of past projects. I was able to refer to it and be clear about the level of my skills with respect to the different parts of being a UX designer: user research, UI/interaction design, visual design and usability testing. Once I overcame this existential crisis and was able to coherently articulate what I do, it became a lot easier for me to identify potentially good matches.I’ve met startups that have clearly not worked with many designers before; for some, I would have been the first designer they’ve ever worked with. After being rejected many times for not being a visual designer who met their standards, I began to question my own design skills. Maybe my skills weren’t that great. Maybe I really needed to focus on making UIs that are exceptionally beautiful. All this agonizing was pointless. The reality was that they didn’t know what is a UX designer and were confused about what they needed. Some claimed they were searching for a UX designer, but when I probed, it became clear that they cared more about visual design and was looking for someone to make their products look great—if a young startup has a strong product manager (who isn’t a founder), that startup is most likely looking for a visual designer. I’ve also experienced the opposite where startups said they wanted a visual designer, but what they really needed was a UX designer. Besides not knowing what they needed, their inexperience also led them to have unrealistic expectations about what they could find in a potential partner.There are startups that want designers who can do everything: user research, UI/interaction design, visual design, usability testing, copywriting, front-end coding (HTML, CSS, JavaScript) and some go as far as asking for back-end skills as well (usually Python or Ruby)—why not throw in product while we’re at it? I’m not even exaggerating. It’s understandable that a small startup would want its team members to be versatile and help out in different roles, but these expectations were extreme. This is equivalent to my looking for the perfect guy—a clearly futile attempt. Even if such a man existed, I’d be concerned about what I’d have to offer in return (not to mention the multitude of others who’d be clamoring for his attention). So even though my LinkedIn profile says “UX Unicorn” (it’s mostly intended as tongue-in-cheek) and while I do have these skills, it’s a lot to expect. Some wanted me to jump through hoop after hoop to prove myself worthy. After awhile, it became one too many hoops. There’s always a risk involved in committing to someone and it’s understandable that they wanted to be cautious, but there was a point where that caution became excessive. The constant struggle to prove myself was exhausting. Even though there was an initial attraction, in order to preserve my sanity, I had to say goodbye. Still, things could have been worse.One particular incident wins the prize for being the most awkward and uncomfortable. It began innocuously with questions about myself, what I’m looking for and vice versa. We did a QA surrounding how I would improve their product. What caught me by surprise was that they wanted me to show them the solution on-the-spot. As in, Photoshop was open and they expected me to mock it up as they watched (whiteboard sketches were not enough). I’ve done detailed design exercises with startups before, but they were never time-constrained with a live audience. If I had been on a real date and my date had asked me to rub his feet to show him that I knew how to give a massage, I couldn’t have been more surprised. Any possibility of a future relationship ended. The only thing I debated was how to hightail out of there without making a scene. Thankfully, not all of my dates were this ludicrous.Along with newbies, unicorn-hunters and wish-I-could-forget dates, I’ve also met great guys. One was extremely courteous and considerate and I felt very well-treated throughout our dates. While we were getting to know each other and assessing whether we’d be a good fit, I never felt like I had to jump through hoops—instead, I felt courted. It was a nice change. Although this startup was great, things didn’t end up working out because I wasn’t a good fit for them. Another reason where things didn’t work out with other startups was that I wasn’t excited about their mission, but that’s not always the case.There are companies that I’ve admired for a long time. These are rock stars with whom most people would have jumped at the chance to have a relationship—I was no different. I was giddy with excitement at getting the chance to just meet them and talk to them. I agonized over whether they would call, why they hadn’t called and what I was going to do if they didn’t. We went on a few dates, but in the end, I was not the one for them. They wanted someone who was…er…well…taller. I’m five feet and nearly a half-inch (yes, it counts). I tried to convince myself that I could wear high heels so I would be closer to their desired height. I made a half-hearted attempt to convince them. Deep down, I knew it wouldn’t have worked though. I hate high heels. So even though they rejected me, I wasn’t crushed for long that it didn’t work out. The ones that still haunt me are the ones that ended for no clear reason.Once in awhile, I fall hard for a startup. It was an auspicious beginning where we were both genuinely interested in each other. They were intriguing and exciting. I worried about whether or not I was good enough for them. We were open about ourselves: I knew they had been in bad relationships before—I’ve experienced my own share. What I didn’t expect was how deeply these experiences had scarred them. It was enough to make them extremely shy about committing.At the time when we were supposed to either commit or part ways, they proposed that we defer the decision and keep the relationship open longer. They wanted to be non-exclusive still? Really? They didn’t think I was good enough? On the one hand, it was entirely logical to take more time if they had made bad decisions in the past. On the other hand, I felt deeply rejected; I wondered if they had seen something that gave them pause. Being on the receiving end of the “It’s not you, it’s me” speech isn’t pleasant, regardless of how true it might be.Had they told me from the beginning that they would need more time than usual, I would have known what to expect. Their hesitation fueled my doubts and insecurities. Had those other relationships ended badly because the others didn’t measure up? Would I measure up? I deliberated and debated and when I was finally able to overcome the disappointment to consider extending the courtship, they had already moved on. Was it my ambivalence that was off-putting? Had they simply changed their mind? Whatever the reason was, I will never know. This relationship began with great hope, but ended with the guy never returning my call. My having fallen for them made recovering a difficult process. But as with any relationship, it just took a new one to recover from the old one.Strangely, sometimes things just work out. This startup took the prize for being the friendliest that I’ve ever dated. Many are nice, but not many are friendly. I felt comfortable in their presence even though we went through the same potentially awkward getting-to-know-you phase—they were actually reluctant to make me jump through hoops. It was frankly a relief after all the others. I didn’t feel the need to be anything other than what I am and, surprisingly, I am the person they’ve been looking for. After talking to more than a dozen startups in eight consecutive weeks, it was surreal to find one that appreciated me as I am and treated me well without demanding much in return. As it turns out, the one for me is the one that is good to me. As simple as that sounds, it was harder to find than you would think.During my intermittent search over the past year, I’ve talked to 30+ startups and learned how exhausting the process can be, mentally, physically and emotionally. Besides the disappointment that came with being rejected, I had to deal with so much unexpected baggage from their previous relationships. Their perception of me was colored by their own experiences and I had to learn not to internalize it as accurate reflections of myself. In the past, I’ve had a knack for attracting partners who turned out not to be good for me so I have my own hesitation in selecting a future partner. Each startup has its own dysfunction (ahem—quirks). I’ve just tried to find ones that I can live with. Will we live happily ever after? Well, that’s another story.A mischievous iconoclast — I walk my own line.Life is made of stories.

Usability testing doesn’t have to be complicated. There are dozens of options for a design team that wants to remotely test their solutions. To prove that, we’ve redesigned We ran remote usability tests because they’re fast and affordable. All of these tests were unmoderated, which means the users ran them in the comfort of their own homes. While this gives us less control, it provides for more natural results. Because their reactions were recorded, we encouraged them to think out loud.It’s vital to understand that there is no single magic approach. There are a wide selection of tactics ranging from usability lab studies to simple email surveys, and they all have their time and place. We went with a remote usability test because it strikes a nice balance between speed, accuracy, and cost.In this article we’ll explain why qualitative research matters, explain the insights, and show how they were built into the new design.When it comes to qualitative analysis, you can’t just ask users to talk about their experiences.As Jakob Nielsen, Partner at the Nielsen Norman Group, The correct approach is watching what users do and then asking them the bare minimum Distinct patterns emerged in the videos of user interactions with the Yelp website. Unsurprisingly, we learned that the search bar was one of the most essential and easy-to-use. Of course, this makes sense because Yelp is essentially a business search engine with some added social features. However, other features weren’t as intuitive, as you’ll see below.All five test participants relied heavily on the search bar, even for tasks that could easily be completed by browsing through the categories instead (like finding a nice restaurant or bar without being given any specific criteria). In fact, four out of the five participants went straight to the search bar to find a restaurant. Only one user started browsing through the categories, and she quickly found them “overwhelming” and ended up falling back on the search bar instead.It’s important to mention that in our test instructions, we asked users to “find” a restaurant, not to “search for” a restaurant, because we wanted to observe how they would naturally complete this task without biasing them toward a specific function.Interestingly, when the users were given specific parameters (like the budget, ambiance, and type of restaurant, or the name of an individual business) they almost always ignored everything on the homepage except for the search bar. In our redesign, we made sure that the search bar was the most visually prominent feature.In one task, we asked the two users without Yelp accounts to find an interesting event in their area this weekend. We wanted to learn whether they would use the events tab at the top of the page.Surprisingly enough, nobody used the Because holding events is an important part of Yelp’s business, our redesign would pull the events section out from the sidebar and make it part of the primary scroll.We were curious to see how users would choose to save locations for later reference. In Yelp, there are two ways to do this: users with existing accounts can either Of the three users who were given this task:The two users who used bookmarks It would be nice to allow users to have an easier and more intuitive method of saving businesses to return to later, so we added a one-click save feature in the redesign. This new feature lets you save a business straight from the results page without diving deeper.All five users were given a task to find a specific business and find out if it was open at a certain time. They all successfully completed this task, and rated the task as ‘very easy’. As mentioned previously, all five used the search bar to accomplish this task.Since searching for a specific business is working so well, we decided that the functionality didn’t need any changing.When asked to find a restaurant with a certain ambiance, none of the five users attempted to use the search bar. Instead, three This brought up two insights:All five users were asked to find a restaurant for a group of 15, three of the five participants used the At another point, While filters are important, we learned that they could be greatly improved. To dig deeper, we decided to to run a For the redesign, we decided that we would categorize filter categories in groups of four based on how users prioritized them. For example, we learned that “Open Now” and “Accepts Credit Cards” were some of the most important filters, but it can take several clicks to access them.When users were searching for the restaurant with specific parameters, one of the requirements was to find a restaurant within a $20/person budget. Two of the five users were confused by whether their $20 restaurant budget would fall into the $, $$, or $$$ category. One user stated that she didn’t know what the symbols meant, and another clicked the wrong category. The other three correctly chose the $$ category.The definition of the symbols does not display when users select filters; it only displays when the user navigates to a particular restaurant’s page. Since price expectations are highly subjective, it was unclear to users which category they should choose.In the redesign, we solved this by placing the exact values in parentheses next to the symbols. This is especially helpful as you move between categories, since $$ has different meaning if you’re choosing a mechanic or burger joint.Once it was time to design, we followed an approach based on the last few steps of the We created a wireframe to incorporate most of the design changes, then added some interactions and animations to turn it into a low-fidelity prototype. Once the animations were smoothed out, we added detail for a high-fidelity prototype.What users say and what users do should serve as checks and balances during user testing. While you don’t need to necessarily be present during the test, an audiovisual recording is mandatory, otherwise you might miss out on the context of actions. When you combine qualitative analysis with quantitative analysis , you’ll get an even clearer idea of Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

The three most popular sites for booking hotel rooms in India are Cleartrip.com, Makemytrip.com and Yatra.com with their alexa ranks in India being 190, 76 and 245 respectively which means they get hell lot of traffic everyday. No doubts in that, in a country with a billion people, travel is unarguably a huge industry. And therefore, ‘hotel search’ is really a huge problem that should be solved, which is what these portals are trying to do.All these web portals are trying to make the process of booking tickets for flights and hotels as simple as possible. In this post, I would like to compare the User Experience of booking a hotel room in each of these three websites and share my analysis.Screen where the user enters a few details to see the list of hotel rooms.Looks cleaner than the rest. But does it mean it’s the best? Lets take a closer look.This one says “Search for hotels” in big bold letters while the other two says “Book domestic and international hotels”. A couple of things I feel can be improved here:Instead, the design can be tweaked a bit as shown to make it more clear:Next, the placement of the “search hotels” button which is the primary Call to Action (CTA) on this screen doesn’t seem to be ideal. This is natural way in which our brain actually scans this page:but as we can see the CTA is not left aligned but pushed to the right:Recent searches:Now, why are “recent searches” important? Because the user doesn’t take immediate decisions while booking hotels. He may check the hotels and prices once in one portal. He may go back and check them in other portal. He comes back next day and wants to check again, still undecisive of what to book. By the time he ultimately decides to make a payment, he would have searched with the same search criteria at least 4 times. He doesn’t have to enter the same search criteria everytime provided he has a quick link in the name of “recent searches”. But if it is difficult to locate this feature, there isn’t much use.So, we can make use of our powerful and sensitive peripheral vision to do a quick work around for this. What is peripheral vision? You can always google but I will just sum it up for you. Suppose you are in a classroom listening to your teacher with your eyes fixed on him. Suddenly, a dog passes by in the corridor and your eyes immediately turn to see it, don’t they? Why? This is because of the extremely sensitive peripheral vision, which is an evolutionary trait for human beings. Theory says that humans developed this vision as earlier beings used to depend on hunting which means they always had to be on their toes watching for quick changes in the environment surrounding them.Anyway, we can make use of peripheral vision here to let users take a glance at the recent searches feature with a small animation which can be something like this:Although the user’s eyes are fixed on the center part of the screen, a little animation on the right will make him take a glance for a second and find this useful feature.This has more input fields than Cleartrip, yet I find this a bit more useful than cleartrip. Lets take a closer look. It says “I want to go to” and the label says “Region, City, Area or Hotel Name (worldwide)” giving the user a wide range of options to enter and it says it can show results for anything. This is particularly useful because lets say I want to go to Pune. I can just enter Pune here and search. Or lets say I have searched for hotels in Pune in some other site, say Cleartrip and found one good hotel. I may want to check the price of the rooms in that hotel in multiple sites to see where I would be getting the best deal. So, I come to makemytrip and I can directly enter the hotel’s name. This is what this simple input field enables the user to do.Here, the divisions are neatly marked with subtle border lines.Also, “Flight + Hotel” deals is given a great importance here probably aligning with their business goals. It is emphasized with a red hot chilli right next to the CTA and also on the top menu bar, it comes along with a “save more” popover in green, a distinctive color from the rest of the page. Strong visual differentiation it is.In makemytrip, the recent searches feature is actually hidden! That is probably because they show “last viewed hotels” after the “above-the-fold” section.The Last viewed hotels part feels like it is a completely different section and not really related to hotel search task which the user is performing. Hence, there is high chance of the user missing it completely. Although the “2 marker does help a bit, it’s still not the best design.On the first glance, the overall page looks a bit cluttered.Also, here no effort has been made to show recent searches or deals on hotels or last viewed hotels etc. This is primarly because the hotel search form is still on the same home page but on a different form tab… i.e. in cleartrip and makemytrip, hotels search opens in a new page (cleartrip.com/hotels; makemytrip.com/hotels). But in Yatra, search for flights, hotels, flight+hotels etc. all happens on the same home page (yatra.com) in a different tab. Thus, showing relevant content to relevant searches isn’t taking place which isn’t really a great design decision.So, as of now, this would be my rating of the UX design of these three portals:The Sr. UI / UX Designer at Housing.com. I do a bunch of interesting things in design/web/startups. More on raviteja.in.Reviews, journeys and analysis about using Indian websites, apps and services. Also thoughts and writings by Indian UXers/Design Thinkers.

What’s hot in UX this week:Once upon a time, when the internet was conceived, we dreamed up crazy websites. Everyone built their sites more or less from scratch, so there was huge diversity in layouts, colors, sound effects, transitions, animations and more.In 2015, it feels like web design has become a lot more boring. The internet grew up, HTML5 came along and unleashed new possibilities… but we lost a lot of the fun along the way.via Government snooping. Identity theft. Sale of personal data. Privacy is out there in a big way. But it’s not in here, meaning on most product development teams.The question of whether to use a button or a link seems small. But what starts as a simple UX design problem can create more discussion than you thought possible, and open up a visual design and development can of worms.See how the folks at PixelArts go from an idea to a live product in this timelapse video showing a very familiar interface: Adobe Photoshop.By most accounts, more and more people are automatically blocking the ads in their browser. Of course, people have been blocking ads forever. By ignoring them.“At Graphiq, we’re working to deliver the world’s knowledge. It’s our belief that everyone benefits from knowledge, but in today’s world, it’s not always easy to access.”Designing magical experiences is a local effort. Uber was imagined as a private driver that appears at the tap of a button. And, since your private driver would never ask you to hand over money at the end of your ride — neither would driver-partners using the Uber platform.Illustrator can be a bit of an unconventional choice when it comes to web and app design, but my aim in this series is to explore the different reasons why it’s a great tool for delivering and rapidly revising everything from wireframes to full, hi-res comps.via Brought to you by your friends at Like the links? Share the love ♥Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

While millennia of art, from Greek vases to Italian chapels, have shaped our understanding of what beauty is, the comparatively recent technology behind eye tracking is adding a new dynamic to how we visually perceive the world. More to the point, this exciting new science is helping us better understand — and better design — websites that are both effective and aesthetic.Web design (as a visual art) follows many of the same rules as more traditional art forms. In this article we’ll briefly outline the importance of visual organization, then explain how the findings of eye tracking can improve the layout of web interfaces.It’s no surprise that how a website looks affects its success, but it is important to pinpoint the reasons why. In his paper A well-made interface can guide users from one action to the next without feeling overbearing. Regardless of what you think of their business practices, there’s no doubt that By matching otherwise unlike pieces of information, the a UI can form links in the user’s mind, communicating messages without saying a thing. Look at the popular design website Don’t make the mistake of thinking your website is simply a mechanized tool. Websites have the potential to make emotional connections, and if yours don’t, your competitors’ will. In fact, people may actually be more prone to forgive your interface’s shortcomings if you produce a positiveSometimes, it seems your eyes have minds of their own. Years of evolution have given us the instincts to spot objects and movements which we deem important, whether someone’s sexy walk across the street, or a cuddly cartoon bear advertising honey. While the relative weight we place on what’s important may vary from person to person, the one constant is the mechanisms on which they behave. On a large scale, the majority of people follow the same trends when viewing a web page.Of these trends, there are two that we’ll discuss in detail. In anThe first, the F-Pattern, is used mostly for text (but can be adapted for other purposes). The second, the Z-Pattern, can be used for any visual layout. We’ll explain the different pros and cons for each below.The F-Pattern is the sight trend that emerges on pages that are heavily laden with text, typically blogs, news sources, articles, etc.When faced with a block of words, most readers will first scan a vertical line down the left side of the text, typically looking for keywords or points of interest in the paragraph’s initial sentences. Eventually the reader finds something they like, and begin to read normally, forming horizontal lines. The end result is something that looks like the letters Jakob Nielson of the Nielson Norman Group conducted a readability study based on 232 users scanning thousands of websites. From his research, he recorded what he believes are As always, the upper-left corner is the most important, as it is where all left-to-right reading cultures start out. The user will usually read horizontally across the header, so here’s a good place for a navigation bar and/or a call-to-action. Then the user scans vertically down the left-side, until they come across content that interests them. Finally, the user ends on the right side of the page, a great place with a call-to-action or advertisement. Just don’t let the sidebar overwhelm the content.But the F-Pattern is not a template — really it’s not an exact practice, but more of a loose guide compiled from the trends of the majority of users. Keep this in mind because the F-PatternKickstarter uses a card layout to show feature projects and to not become visually boring after the first 500 pixels.On the other hand, Additionally, the Z-Pattern is the simplest and most universal pattern, popularly used on any webpage that’s based around text. The reader first scans horizontally across the top, darts down and back to the left-side, then scans horizontally again across the bottom.It’s important to understandThink the Z-Pattern is right for your page? Here’s a few best practices to optimize the benefits:The first thing you’ll want to do is prioritize the elements on your page for yourself so you know the most and least important ones. From there, it’s just a simple matter of allocating them to the appropriate “hot spots.”Moreover, the Z-Pattern can be repeated and extended throughout the entirety of the page. Just take a look at how Great interface design should be like an invisible hand that guides readers along at the speed of thought. The important takeaway from the F-Pattern and Z-Pattern trends is that you can place your most important content where the reader will “stumble upon” it naturally, as opposed to trying to force them to look at them.Subtlety is a great advantage for any page layout, and these patterns can make the difference between suggesting something to your reader versus shoving it down their throat.[ — This article originally appeared on Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

I recently took up the task of re-defining the UX design process for the team at Each project has different design challenges and individual designers want/need different amounts of guidance so we were keen to update our existing process to one that was guiding, without being too prescriptive.While the end result is a documented process that follows the path through a project from discovery to delivery and beyond, we’ve included a set of overarching principles and goals that help the UX designer to determine what should be done, rather than a prescriptive flow of activities.These aren’t the “In order to be the voice of the user, the UX designer must have an intimate understanding of who the users are, coupled with their goals and motivations. Uncover their current ways of working and work with users to create, test and validate designs.Most projects at SEEK originate from analysis done by our Strategy team. They are able to provide a wealth of information about the market, strategic, and operational drivers — particularly at the start of a project. Once a design has been deployed, the designer should ensure that goals have been achieved.What are our competitors doing? What are other sites/services doing well? Are there pre-existing patterns or trends that could be applied?If you aren’t testing, you’re guessing. Validate thinking at the earliest possible opportunity. And re-test as things progress.SEEK has a very collaborative culture. The best results are achieved through creating a shared vision and understanding. The UX designer should ensure that all members of the team have the opportunity to express their views at the right time and agree on the most appropriate course of action.The majority of the UX groundwork should be completed before inception. The rest should be done in conjunction with the team. The UX designer should have design assets ready for development, and agreed by the team, prior to the start of an iteration.Engage and consult with the team regularly to obtain input and feedback for your designs. Sketchshops, critique and design wall walks can uncover issues or better solutions. Don’t design by committee but welcome as many ideas as possible.There’s an indication of the phases of a project where each principle is important and by checking against these principles, the designer can be more confident that they are doing the right things, at the right times as the project progresses.The process defines UX goals for each of the project phases. These goals are the outcomes that the designer should be aiming to reach. Together, the principles and goals are more important than the tools or activities that are used. The designer is essentially free to choose the work that they need to do to achieve the goals.Potential activities and consultations further assist the designer in deciding what they need to do and who they should to engage with.It’s early days for this process at SEEK but we’re confident it will help (particularly new) members of the team to work confidently and productively.What do you think? Would a process like this work in your organisation? I’d love to hear about it via a response post.User Experience Lead @ SEEK. Pragmatic perfectionist.Thoughts, patterns, ideas and ramblings from the UXers of SEEK

If there’s a common question that web designers ask themselves, it’s usually: Designers have a number of different tricks up their sleeve to make UX that much better, and one of those is the use of directional cues. These directional cues aren’t subtle; their job is to make it so that every last user can’t miss that big, ol’ call to action button somewhere on the page. In other words, directional cues are like huge billboards on a page, literally pointing the user in a very clear direction.The strategy behind their inclusion is to increase all-important conversions. Anything you can do as a designer, to increase conversions, you should do. Directional cues help do this efficiently, here’s how:Directional cues come in all shapes and sizes, and you may even be surprised to learn what can pass as a directional cue. Furthermore, there are both explicit (very obvious) and implicit (more low-key) directional cues.Page elements that can be considered explicit directional cues include:Here’s an ideal example of an explicit directional cue fromImplicit directional cues are far easier to miss, and those elements that constitute an implicit directional cue are debatable, but they could include:For an example of an implicit directional cue, check outEvery page has a purpose, which is usually to get a visitor to buy, sign up for, or subscribe to something. When users don’t understand what the page’s purpose is — such as when the navigation is poorly implemented or the page is much too cluttered — the user experience will drastically decline.This is where a crystal clear directional cue can be the page’s lifesaver. After all, when the users receive cues on what they’re supposed to do on the page, then their experience drastically improves. Their confusion and frustration is replaced by a confidence and efficiency that are brought about by great organization, design and planning.Fittingly, a superb example of a directional cue comes to us on a page that talks about the definition of a directional cue. OnVisual Website Optimizer looked at a page displaying anThere’s no doubt that directional cues are very beneficial on a page, and it comes as no surprise, that the improved user experience provided by directional cues also naturally boosts the conversion rate on sites, as the two are interlinked. When the user experience of your site increases, people convert at higher rates because they understand what they’re supposed to do.Users sometimes know exactly what they’re looking for when they visit your site. These are likely return visitors who want to use what they used the last time they were on your site. For these types of users, it’s paramount that your user experience is top-notch because the last thing you want to do is repel sure-bet conversions! One of the easiest ways to ensure a great user experience for a returning visitor who wants to use the same feature again is by providing a directional cue that’s easy to spot, interpret and then click on.The next time you’re designing and think of dismissing directional cues as just a bunch of unnecessary arrows, lines or curves, think again! Research has shown that they’re definitively tied into the user experience and, consequently, a page’s conversion rate. To help your site visitors experience a much better user experience — and your clients obtain a much better conversion rate — you’ve got to incorporate these directional cues into your design.More than issuing an instruction, directional cues are heavy-hints at what the user is expected to do. Some users won’t, some will, but the important thing is that they clearly understand what the ‘normal’ use of the page is. Directional cues are one of the best tools designers have for enhancing UX, and helping users to boost conversions for your client.Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

The most common trendy word/notion/profession/guru around today is a ‘UX Designer’ or a ‘UX master’ or some other variation of this word. It really reminds me of the word ‘Business man”. A highly useless word that used to be popular.Here is why I think its impossible for an individual to be a UX designer.The reality is, UX is comprised of every single thing that goes into that platform, to name a few; graphic design, UI design, branding, software behaviour, database architecture, logic of data delivery, information architecture, copy, imagery, name/domain selection, SEO and the kitchen sink.Logically, if there is a human being that can do all of those things, and do them well — he is either a god, a millionaire or already working for google.The reality is that most people have some high level idea of what they are looking for and manage people that implement based on their vision.You want to design a home page. Hypothetically, you — the ‘UX Designer’ would have 3 other people involved:You come up with some concept.At that point, your team gets to work. The copywrite comes up with some cool tag line options, which you review and evolve. The designer takes the tag-line and general concept and comes up with 2 or 3 solutions, which you iterate and iterate and then settle on. The developer then suggests a couple of transitions or java animations that can interact with the design and structures the database interactions without you even thinking about it.Collective iteration and more iteration and soon enough you have the UX of that interaction ‘designed’.All team members contributed to it, sure, based on some original concept or vision but ultimately, the expertise and contribution of all the team members is what resulted in the end product. If you were to replace any of the team members — you would most certainly have a different end result.Well, then you are not really benefiting from having a team, and you are employing unskilled and unexperienced labor. If you are building something simple — cool, but I doubt you can produce something world class alone.The magic of collaboration lies in the fact that often you don’t know you like something till you see it. There is most certainly immense value added at every step of the process, regardless what the process flow for your team is. The step between wire-frame and vizualisation to a living and breathing interaction is huge.Anyhow, the moral of the story is, I don’t like UX Designers. To me it seems like they take all the credit for the work their team does, unless ofcourse they are a one man team.I also don’t like the phrase UX unless part of a broad discussion. It reminds me of the word business. It makes sense as a philosophical concept to base all thinking around, but the minute it is said, it becomes a fugazi.In my opinion ofcourse.Thanks for reading.Founder of No Label Inc. Trying to use my time on good.Collection of stories written by members of No Label Inc. A digital creative agency.

About a year and a half ago as part of curriculum development research for On the technical side, they said they were looking for designers who could code and especially designers who knew how to make working prototypes.As everyone knows, it’s notoriously difficult for stakeholders to envision what a site or interface will look like simply based on wireframes. And it can likewise be hard for people to envision interactivity based on full-color printed comps. Having a prototype they can interact with can really bring design concepts to life, hence the desire for this skill set.The focus group participants also spoke of a general misunderstanding of UX fundamentals, not so much on their teams, but within the organization at large. (To address this, we decided to produce a Finally, they said that they really needed to find designers who were comfortable working at the intersection of design and business. Specifically, they sought candidates who understood that they were designing things to solve specific business problems and who had experience facilitating conversations about business and product requirements, on the one hand, and user needs on the other.Based on this research, I wrote a post that ended up on Wired.com entitled, “As far as the hiring managers we spoke with were concerned, designers were not generally equipped to do any of the latter. And these particular managers are not alone in that assessment. Last November I was at In the same vein, Jennifer Bove of Fjord (owned by Accenture), who specializes in service design, said she was looking for people who understood organizational behavior and change management. “Designers,” she added, “aren’t necessarily going to be good at that.”The idea that designers face challenges when it comes to interacting with business folk is hardly new. As someone who has worked on the business side of creative for 17 years or so, I’ve heard this complaint before.Unfortunately, however, the situation is usually expressed as a shortcoming on the side of the business people. I distinctly remember attending an AIGA event in 1999 and hearing designers say things like, “Clients just don’t understand the value of design.” (And how many times have you heard someone say, “Clients don’t understand the value of UX”?)I said it then and I’ll say it now:I believe that the problem ultimately stems from the fact that designers and writers (such as myself), and even developers, have adopted a false dichotomy that says that there is a fundamental difference between themselves and “business people.” “We,” so the sentiment goes, “get paid for what we do, and they get paid from what the business does. We’re about our art, our craft, our practice, and they are about the money.”This thinking is wrong. In order for us to do what we do, we need someone to pay us. That means we have at least one customer — and probably many if you end up serving the needs of multiple stakeholders.As soon as you have a customer, you have to think about what you’re doing in terms of the benefits it affords that customer. In other words, you have to think like a businessperson and identify or articulate the business problem you are solving.Oddly enough, this really means applying some basic UX principles to the work you do. You would be (and, in fact, probably are) frustrated when you hear clients or stakeholders say, “The users just don’t get it.”But aren’t we doing the same thing when we complain that the people paying for our services don’t appreciate or understand the value of them?To illustrate my point, I would like to tell you two stories. My first story demonstrates how business thinking not only affects your interaction with clients, but also requires that you pay heed to the cost of doing business.My friend and colleague Andrew used to work for a leading digital consultancy that had been engaged to redesign the website for a medical center in Chicago. He and the team had worked closely with the medical center’s director of marketing to scope out the project and everything was going according to plan.Then something unexpected happened. Around the time that the team had settled on two basic design options, the CMO said he wanted to make the final decision about the site’s design. Naturally, since the director of marketing reported to the CMO, this was a request that had to be honored.But, there were a couple hiccups.First, the CMO wanted to be guided by data when making his decision. Specifically, he wanted to know how the competing designs were performing with users. Furthermore, he didn’t think that it made sense to test two designs alone. Instead, he wanted the team to test three.Now, on the one hand, this was a good problem to have; a C-level business leader was actually asking for research and user insight to inform a decision. This is precisely what one would hope for.On the other hand, this was a real business problem for the UX team.Specifically, testing design was not part of the original, agreed-upon scope. There was no time or money set aside for developing a testing protocol, finding a testing location, recruiting test participants, running the tests, compiling the data, and putting together a report.On top of that, they really only had two designs, so they were going to have to come up with a third to satisfy this customer’s requirements.The question thus became: How could they do what the client wanted without incurring additional cost themselves, passing along unanticipated costs to the client, or throwing off their schedule (which would have an impact on other client engagements)?The answer they came up with involved a bit of improvisation.First, they found an early iteration of the design that they could use as a “third” option. Next, they made poster-sized versions of the three homepage options, took them out to Michigan Avenue, and set them up in front of McDonald’s and the Apple Store to ask passersby what they thought. Finally, they videotaped all the proceedings.As it turned out, there was no clear winner when it came to audience preferences for the design. However, when they transcribed the interviews, they found that people tended to use words that echoed the medical center’s brand statement when describing one of the design options. Based on this correlation, they recommended that design and the CMO signed off on it.I’m sure that some UX research specialists are cringing at this example. And when he told me this story, Andrew admitted that the methods chosen were far from scientific. That being said, it did solve the business problem they were facing in a way that addressed the customer’s need, avoided cost overruns, and kept the project on track.As this story illustrates, approaching your practice as a business means remembering that you need to stay profitable while delivering the service that your customer is paying for. It also means that you have to be flexible, both with regards to any changes in scope that may arise as well as with regards to the application of your own processes.On this last point, there is no doubt that you need processes and methods. At the same time, what makes design, UX or otherwise, interesting is that it is always conducted within constraints. And figuring out how to accomplish your goals given specific constraints — time, resources, knowledge, cultural context, etc. — is as much a part of design thinking as it is part of business thinking.The other thing that goes into thinking of your practice as a business is the notion of sales. Now, I know that for most designers and developers, “selling” isn’t your first love. In fact, you may actually hate it and, as a result, consciously pursued a career that did not involve sales.Nevertheless, as even my first story illustrates, a big part of your job as a UX specialist is to make recommendations. In fact, the whole point of research and testing is to help business owners and others decide between different possibilities.Sometimes, as everyone knows, the recommendations you make may involve considerable cost. This means that you will need to sell your idea and do so in the most persuasive way possible. In other words, you not only have to sell your idea, you have to market it as well!To illustrate what I’m talking about, I’ll tell you the second story.My friend Amanda, a UX consultant, was doing user research for a company that made email marketing software. To conduct this research, she and her team went out into the field to see how the users were using the product.Now, the company was particularly proud of their HTML email builder, a tool which allowed users to create cool emails simply by dragging and dropping. The problem was this: The primary users of the product were small business owners, meaning that many of them were multi-tasking while using the tool.This wouldn’t have been a big deal except for one small issue: the tool had no auto-save function. As a result, if someone got interrupted in the middle of creating an email, they could (and often did) lose all their work.Adding an auto-save function was going to mean a lot of development work, which meant that Amanda was going to have to be very convincing when advocating for this user-centered change to the platform.Luckily, she had something that marketers are always looking for: a persuasive emotional hook.When she was out videotaping users, she caught the problem on tape. A woman was putting together an email when she had to take time out to deal with a customer service issue. When she returned to the tool, her work was gone. At that point, she started to cry.“I can’t believe I have to do it again,” she moaned. “My week is ruined!”Now, if you are selling a product to small business owners, and your price point is relatively low (this software cost around $30/month), and you have competitors, you can’t really afford to ruin weeks and make your users cry. You have to do something about it.And do something they did, to the tune of six months of development time at a cost north of $100K.This is how you sell recommendations to business owners; you use the data you have at hand to tell a compelling story that shows why the changes need to be made.The good news was that, some time after they made the necessary changes, the company was eventually purchased and, Amanda told me, they even discovered that one of their competitors had begun copying their interface. Both of these events were desirable business outcomes, the latter because it validated their design direction, the former because: money.In a recent webcast we sponsored on You then need to consider what is technically feasible. Of course, nowadays, particularly when you are working in the digital space, there is little that is out of question, technically speaking. Which brings us to the third element that you must consider: the business. Sure, something might be technically feasible, and users may be asking for it, but if it doesn’t make sense from a business standpoint, you may need to take a pass.So, to review, if you want to incorporate business thinking into your design practice, here’s what you have to do.First, Second, Finally, Writer, ironist, PhD. Content Strategist at Aberdeen Group.

There was a time when graphic design was meant to be printed. Everything was simpler a long time ago. Designers finished their work whether it was a brochure, a banner or even an annoying flyer you get on the streets. Success was achieved when customers were attracted to your business.Times have changed and now most of the media is already online. Newspapers, magazines, shops and every type of imaginable business now work on the web. The most important difference between the web and print is interactivity. While print only sends a message, the web is a two-way medium.People get to click on ads, browse local stores and interact with every available component of the web. This interactivity allows a deeper connection with your client but, at the same time, it immediately closes the relation when the experience is bad.People do judge a book by its cover, they will skim your product a few seconds before moving on to the next thing that is trying to catch their attention. You have one instant to catch them, and once you have them, all you have is a great experience to hold on to them.I have one rule that says: “With great budget comes greater diversification of labor”. If you work at Google or Yahoo, there is a chance that there are 5 designers for every aspect that I am about to cover. If you are a freelancer, you’ll have to do it by yourself.Design: It is the base upon which everything is built. Design is the part that amazes the customer, it is the colors, the great looks that make a product establish itself amongst others.Ui: The user interface comes with the evolution of the media. The interaction between with the user and the product is what makes the interface, which is the way in which people communicate and understand each other.Ux: The concept of user experience is even newer than Ui, it is more abstract also. User experience is the need to engage in a better way with the users. while design attracts users, Ux seeks to keep users.-Design is the cute girl/guy that works on the coffee shop on the corner.-Ui is the english language and the name of the “Triple decaf espresso caramel latte” you ask for-Ux is the feeling you get if he/she treats you nicely. (Or rudely shoves your coffee).If you are a freelancer, chances are, the project owners don’t have a lot of budget. You are working very closely with the developer or development team that is coding the back-end of the application. There is no room, no time, no budget to hire a designer, a Ui wizard and a Ux astronaut.Developers and businessmen need an all-in-one solution to their problems. We really don’t care how you call what you do. What we want is a designer, one that does a such an amazing design that we immediately want to download their app. Usability is implicit within a great design, it has to be the core of design. The user has to freely flow through the application. Have you ever seen the designer of a car talking about Ux? Probably not, but every great car has to be great with the user.Unless you are designing the conversion funnel for an investment banking solution that is going to change the world, Ui and Ux are sometimes even predefined. Check our fast solution to a great design:AppleGoogleVisualizing simple, handwritten sketches or simple mockups makes it easy to test if the design is great. Does it just look right? then its right for design.This can be a great time to check if your app is visually engaging. Will that large picture look great on the homepage? etc.We are a startup company currently developing our app.

Размышляя об опыте взаимодействия, мы часто представляем себе продукт с простым, красивым и легким в использовании набором функций, которые делают жизнь пользователя проще. Но на самом деле функции — это лишь небольшая, хрупкая часть продукта. Они представляют собой лишь несколько предлагаемых путей решения проблемы пользователя. “Продуктовое мышление” — это мышление такими категориями, как проблемы пользователя, работы, подлежащие выполнению, цели и доходы компании.В основе опыта взаимодействия лежит не набор функций, а задача, для выполнения которой человек использует продукт. Основа пользовательского опыта компании Uber —заказ такси без заморочек в любое время. Обратный отсчет, показывающий точное время до прибытия такси, — это функция, расширяющая опыт взаимодействия. Но продукт Uber будет работать и без этой функции. Сама же функция обратного отсчета в отрыве от продукта (гарантированного круглосуточного вызова такси ) существовать не может. Взаимоотношения между функцией и продуктом односторонние: функции без продукта не работают. Именно поэтому дизайнеры должны в первую очередь думать о продукте.У продукта есть основной опыт взаимодействия, который, по сути, является причиной существования продукта. Этот опыт взаимодействия удовлетворяет нужды пользователя или решает его проблемы. Благодаря этому, продукт становится значимым и представляет определенную ценность. Если проблемы не существует, или решение не соответствует проблеме, продукт теряет свою значимость, и никто не будет им пользоваться; а это, в свою очередь, ведет к провалу продукта. Неправильное решение еще можно исправить, а вот с несуществующей проблемой уже ничего не сделаешь. Так как же нам убедиться, что мы схватили за хвост настоящую проблему? Увы, быть уверенными на 100% не получится, но мы можем существенно минимизировать риск, наблюдая и беседуя с людьми. Следовательно, нам удастся выявить проблему и создать решение, которое действительно нужно пользователям.Клей Кристенсен, к примеру, однажды пытался поднять продажи молочных коктейлей. Он испробовал всё: делать их слаще, расширить линейку вкусов, немного увеличить размер стаканов. Ничего не давало результатов, пока он не начал наблюдать за клиентами. Он обнаружил, что задача, для решения которой покупался молочный коктейль, была — сделать утреннюю поездку на работу менее скучной. Большим преимуществом молочного коктейля было то, что он, благодаря своей густоте, дольше “пьется” и создает ощущение полного живота. В этом была настоящая проблема, а клиенты понятия об этом не имели. В итоге Кристенсен придумал делать коктейли еще гуще, что увеличило продажи. Продуктовое мышление помогает создавать успешные функции. Определив проблемы, c которыми борется продукт, мы отвечаем на вопрос Продукт становится значимым, когда предложенное решение соответствует выявленной проблеме. Это решение описывает способы, которыми проблема может быть решена. Таким образом, уровень соответствия между решением и проблемой определяет основной опыт взаимодействия с продуктом. Конкретные функции расширяют этот опыт и поддерживают основное взаимодействие, но не могут его заменить.Проектирование взаимодействия (interaction design) и визуальный дизайн (visual design) могут сделать продукт красивым, простым в использовании, радостным или даже выделяющимся среди конкурентов, но они не способны сделать его значимым. Именно поэтому должный уровень соответствия между проблемой и решением так важен для создания успешного продукта.В ходе “продуктового мышления” UX-дизайнеры должны быть в состоянии ответить на следующие вопросы: Какую проблему мы решаем? (Проблема пользователя). Для кого мы это делаем? (Целевая аудитория). Почему мы это делаем? (Видение). Как мы это делаем? (Стратегия). Чего мы хотим достичь? (Цели). Только после этого имеет смысл переходить к конкретике (функции).Благодаря продуктовому мышлению, дизайнеры имеют возможность создавать правильные функций для правильных людей.ПМ помогает понять опыт взаимодействия продукта в целом, а не только в рамках проектирования конкретных функций.ПМ повышает вероятность решения реальных проблем пользователей и снижает риск создания никому не нужного продукта.ПМ дает нам силу принимать правильные решения, когда дело доходит до создания функций.Продуктовое мышление позволяет UX-дизайнерам задавать правильные вопросы, создавать правильные функции и более эффективно общаться со всеми заинтересованными в проекте людьми. Оно позволяет дизайнерам говорить “нет” и сомневаться при добавлении новых функций.Когда поступает запрос на новую функцию, или когда кто-то рассказывает идею нового продукта, дизайнеры могут задать правильные вопросы прежде, чем рисовать вайрфреймы или раскрашивать макеты. “Вписывается ли функция в продукт?” — “Решает ли она реальную проблему клиента?” — “Людям это нужно или просто хочется? Давайте сначала разберемся!” Благодаря этому продукт будет подтянутым и эффективным.Продуктовое мышление обеспечивает создание дизайнерами правильных функций для правильных людей, а также решение реальных пользовательских проблем. Такое мышление дает нам силу принимать правильные решения и является основой создания успешных продуктов, реально необходимых пользователям. Продуктовое мышление устанавливает плодотворные отношения между product-менеджментом и UX-дизайном, а, следовательно, ведет к созданию более сильных продуктов. Именно поэтому продуктовое мышление станет новым прорывом в UX-дизайне.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Новые подходы к разработке сайтов и приложений

O termo “Dívida de UX” surgiu como referência ao termo Usa-se “dívida”, pois assim como dívidas, a dívida técnica gera juros que terão que ser pagos depois. No caso da dívida técnica gera lentidão para desenvolver funcionalidades novas e a dívida de UX gera uma experiência baixa para o usuário.Dívida de UX é a lacuna que existe entre a experiência que o seu produto tem hoje e o potencial da experiência que ele pode ter dado o devido tempo e os recursos necessários, ou seja, todas as melhorias na experiência do usuário que o produto atual pode ter.Da mesma maneira que a dívida técnica, a dívida de UX vai se acumulando ao longo do desenvolvimento de um produto devido a decisões rápidas e de baixa qualidade. Também pode ser criada devido a falta de visão da experiência do produto como um todo gerando falhas e inconsistencias.Dívida de UX inclui desde pequenos ajustes na interface, performace, consistência, até mudanças mais drásticas que envolvem uma análise maior e mudanças nos paradigmas de navegação.Outros exemplos são: falta de padronização entre elementos, por exemplo botões que possuem formato e cores diferentes, elementos de uma página que estão desalinhados, interfaces mal projetadas, páginas muito carregadas de informação, validações e mensagens de formulários que não estão corretas ou mal escritas.A dívida de UX intencional é criada quando se opta pela opção mais rápida e não pela melhor decisão que vai tomar mais tempo para ser implementada. Isso pode ocorrer quando há pressão para entrega de um produto e o time acaba pecando na experiência do usuário. A experiência nunca deve ser cortada mas sim deve-se manter uma padronização entre todas as funcionalidades da aplicação.A dívida de UX não intencional ocorre quando não se tem um total conhecimento sobre as necessidades dos usuários ou não se sabe exatamente quem é o público alvo e seu conhecimento de tecnologia, dessa maneira uma experiência errada é projetada gerando dívidas de UX. Outra maneira não intencional é quando não se pensa na experiência como um todo ou não se sabe qual a experiência presente em outras funcionalidades.Isso ocorre quando criamos um design e continuamente adicionamos mais e mais links, ou mais e mais tabs, até percebemos que chegou em um estado crítico e um redesign é necessário. Outro exemplo é quando mais e mais funcionalidades são adicionadas sem pensar como a experiência é afetada e como essas funcionalidades conversam entre si.Após análise e coleta das dívidas de UX, uma das maneiras de se fazer a priorização é a seguinte:É importante que a dívida de UX seja analisada desde o início do desenvolvimento de um produto para que assim evita-se o acumulo e potencialize a experiência do usuário. A dívida irá ocorrer diversas vezes, mas manter tudo documentado e constantemente priorizado é importante para assegurar a entrega da melhor experiência possível.Referências:UX Enthusiast, Web Lover and Entrepreneur Wannabe. glauberramos.com

Over the last few years we have seen the proliferation of the UX/UI portfolio. These are typically online, hosted as a personal website or on a UI beauty parade website such as Dribble or Behance. Often the content is unsolicited redesigns of existing user interfaces. Owners of these portfolios frequently claim they are creating user experiences as they are creating user interfaces that participate in a user experience.Whether this is true or not, few creators of these portfolios carry out research into user or even business needs. Often their goal is to impress peers with something pretty rather than identify and solve a real problem. Even if they did, it’s impossible to tell if the portfolio contains only images, as they often do.Only users can judge the user experience. Even UX portfolios don’t show the user experience. They explain the conscientious work that went into ensuring the right design was produced. If you have a UX/UI portfolio containing only pretty visual designs, then you may have a very fine UI design portfolio but a really ineffective UX one.Freelance UX consultant; Former comedy producer; Trained Chinese chef; Ecyclist; Writing ‘Designing a UX portfolio’ (O’Reilly Media)Ian Fenn on User Experience Design

A weekly(ish) web comic created by and for designers.

People often ask me “Where can I find a UX mentor?” When you’re a new User Experience (UX) designer, there’s a lot to learn. It’s hard to make sense of everything you’ve absorbed from classes, workshops, blog posts and books.Even after you work in the field a while and gain experience, User Experience designers need to wear many hats and master many different skills to succeed. After learning everything you can by yourself, sometimes it’s helpful to have someone who can give you a fresh perspective and provide guidance.No-one can help you with everything. Be precise about the help you want, or at least give a direction. A specific request like “I’d like a code review of this project,” “What are the new advances in SEO I should know about,” or “What are some blogs I should read” makes it easier for the person you ask to decide if they are a good fit to help you (or not).Who is good at the things you want to learn? You can use It can be scary to ask for help. If you do it well, people may say “no” but they will be flattered you asked. If you ask politely and have a clear request, they may even refer you to someone who can help.“Can you answer some questions over coffee” is easier to say “yes” to than, “will you be my mentor?” When you don’t know someone already, it’s better to send a short introduction and ask permission before you send your portfolio. You’re asking someone to give you their time; make it comfortable for them to say “no” if they don’t have bandwidth to help youBe familiar with things your mentor has already written (blog posts, presentations on SlideShare, GitHub profile, books). You’ll get a more engaged response if you ask specific questions and show knowledge of what they’ve published.Be attentive to scheduling and following up; if your mentor is good at what they are doing, they probably have a full schedule. Be on time for meetings and calls and if you need to make a change don’t cancel at the last minute.A good mentor relationship should be balanced and a pleasure for both people. Look for ways to say “thank you!” and pay it forward by helping other people with things you know.photo credit: Digital product designer. Quick, visual, collaborative, continuous. #lean #agile #ux #designThoughts from the ridiculously talented folks of Philosophie

UI Design não é UX, e UX não é UI, mas ambas disciplinas caminham juntas para tornar a experiência do usuário melhor e mais fácil.UI Design, ou User Interface Design (Design de Interface do Usuário), é o meio pela qual uma pessoa interage e controla um dispositivo, software ou aplicativo. Esse controle pode ser feito por meio de botões, menus e qualquer elemento que forneça uma interação entre o dispositivo e o usuário.Um bom projeto de UI antecipa as necessidades do usuário e garante que a interface contenha elementos de fácil acesso e utilização, fornecendo o que é chamado de experiência “user-friendly”, ou seja, uma experiência que é amigável e que não cause frustrações ao usuário.É muito comum confundir UI Design com UX Design, e por mais que os nomes sejam parecidos, suas abordagens são bem diferentes. UX está relacionado com a experiência do usuário e com seus sentimentos, já UI é a maneira pela qual o usuário alcançará essa experiência. Há uma analogia citada por É importante entender que User Interface não é só sobre como uma aplicação ou dispositivo se parece, nem quais cores ou formas o compõe. UI é sobre como ele funciona e sobre como a interação será realizada, indo muito além da aparência que esse produto possui.Confundir estes dois termos é mais comum do que você imagina.Com a incrível quantidade de nomenclaturas existentes hoje em dia para definir todas as áreas que envolvem o design, não é de se surpreender que vez ou outra nos confundimos ao utilizá-las.Em primeiro lugar, o que você precisa saber é que os dois termos tem significados diferentes, mas que eles se complementam e são fundamentais para um bom design. Podemos dizer que eles possuem uma relação simbiótica, visto que se beneficiam mutuamente para alcançar um resultado final satisfatório.Jakob Nielsen e Donald Norman resumem a Experiência do Usuário como uma forma de englobar todos os aspectos da interação do usuário final com a empresa, seus serviços e seus produtos, ou seja, ela é responsável por estudar as melhores maneiras de atender as necessidades dos usuários e deixá-los satisfeitos com todo o processo. Eles complementam dizendo que a verdadeira experiência do usuário vai muito além de somente fornecer aos clientes o que eles dizem querer, sendo necessário fazer com que eles se sintam alegres por possuírem seu produto e felizes em utilizá-lo. Desta forma, para trabalhar com UX é necessário que o designer estude e avalie como os usuários se sentem sobre um sistema, levando em consideração aspectos como a facilidade de uso, percepção de valor do sistema, utilidade, eficiência na execução de tarefas e demais características para propor a melhor solução a um determinado problema.Também é necessário que o UX Designer tenha uma visão ampla de todas as disciplinas que a e envolvem — e existem muitas delas, como você pode ver no gráfico abaixo desenvolvido por Sabendo que o UX Design trabalha com as emoções e experiências dos usuários, fica mais fácil entender que o UI é justamente a ponte responsável por fazer com que essas experiências aconteçam. De acordo com Jef Raskin, um especialista em interação humano-computador americano conhecido por ter iniciado o projeto do Macintosh para a Apple Computer no final da década de 1970, a interface é a maneira que você realiza tarefas com um produto, ou seja, o que você faz e de que forma ele responde.Sintetizando tudo o que foi falado até agora, o UI Design é a interação entre a interface e o usuário, já UX é como essas interações trabalharão o lado emocional do usuário, a sua experiência com o sistema.Gostaria de receber mais conteúdos como esse? Assine a minha Fundador e ex-sócio do Conhecimento experimentado a nível atômico.

My name is Matt Lavoie and I love to design beautiful things. I enjoy aesthetics and creative ways of interacting with technology. I enjoy exploring new avenues and ideas.All of these are great, but when designing interfaces they need to be balanced with a simple rule. This is the rule that I have come to follow above any other in my work as as UX Designer. Though it is right above this paragraph I will share it again here: I first had this realization a bit over a year ago when I was reading In this moment I had the unfortunate, startling realization that I wasn’t giving much love to my users at all. I had this moment of understanding that some of the design decisions I was making were because I wanted them, not because they would best serve our customers.Now I am not saying that flaring on ideas is bad, or that you shouldn’t explore exciting and innovative ways of interacting with software. All I am saying is to do so in a way that puts the needs of your actual users over your own desires. Don’t make your agenda the priority. Rather, focus on serving your users as best as possible and everything else will fall into place. Through it all just keep reminding yourself, as I do, that the ‘U’ in UX stands for your User.My name is Matt Lavoie and I love to design beautiful, useful things.I love solving real problems for real people.

Don’t get me wrong; some start-ups do get it right from the start, and are the ones that usually succeed, but they are few and far between based on my experiences to date.But don’t despair, this is not meant to be all doom and gloom. I do have some constructive tips for those of you working or looking to get going in the world of start-ups, tips that will boost your confidence and ultimately help you to develop and build a successful user centric company.For a start-up to succeed it must believe in its own ideas, and for that reason I can’t begrudge any founders enthusiasm and drive for their product. However, and I hate to say it — I’ve witnessed too many start-ups fall short simply because they were too blind-sided by their own egos. When a start-up becomes too focused and engrossed on their product, it simply cannot empathise with its users.It can become quite easy for you to lose sight of your original goal, when you are knee deep in the problem that you are trying to solve, as you delve further and deeper and gather expert knowledge about the inner workings of your product. Since you most likely fiddle with product features day in, day out for months, it’s easy to complicate things by introducing yet another feature or option. And yet all the while your product with its various updates has probably not even seen the light of day nor even been tested by a single prospective user.The thing to remember is you’re not building a product for yourself, but for (hopefully) paying customers. If you can’t fully identify and address customers’ needs, pain points and motivations, if they can’t understand what the product is about — they won’t find any value for themselves and they will not engage with the product.Therefore, empathy is the key. If you can understand the user, you’ll know how to tweak your idea (conceptual model) to better match their view of the world (mental model). Nothing beats actual face-time with the user. You can’t practice empathy while staring at your computer screen for weeks or months on end. Sometimes you have to apply the brakes, go out there, learn about people, learn about your users, ultimately test the waters.Asking people what they like leads into feature creep. Now on the surface this may appear to contradict my previous point, but hear me out. In 2007 we re-designed As part of the re-design we openly asked people, the users, what they wanted and we received a lot of feedback and requests. One request was to include a visible Gmail login on the homepage, so users could log-in to read their e-mail. At first it was great to receive such tangible feedback and in this case we even considered implementing the request. Fortunately, we soon came to our senses and realised it was not what the website was about.You and only you should design the product. Not the users. Now that doesn’t mean ignoring users altogether. Uncover their needs, motivations and habits and then design the product to match those findings. Instead of asking, observe. Sure, you can talk to them as well as let them talk to you. Do listen to them. But there’s little value in exchanging ideas with the user. Learning how users use your product to accomplish their goal is the real beef and should always be your primarily goal.If you intend to compete on your products interface alone against companies who have full-blown in-house design teams, then you are very likely to fail. Even if you do have a great team of designers at your disposal, it’s highly unlikely your interface alone will bring you success. Whether it’s collected data, aggregated information or user generated material — content is king.Good interface design helps improve the overall experience for any well balanced product that has useful and meaningful content, but if you cannot enrich the content at the start or make it interesting in a truly innovative way, then keep it simple and don’t experiment with the interface. Make it really smart first, and then pick out the smart-looking fitted suit later.It’s easy to forget that you’re not the only one who develops a similar idea. For instance, when you create the SWOT analysis, consider it as a mere snapshot in time. A temporary state. When you turn an opportunity into strength remember it immediately becomes a weakness, because your competition will clearly see where you have placed your efforts. In those moments your efforts very soon become a threat.Be agile, re-asses your status and re-adjust accordingly. The longer you wait, the more likely it is that all of the investigative and research work you conducted previously will become outdated. User experience is a moving target. The more a user develops their capacity to interact with overall technology, the higher expectations they have from your concept.This is one primarily for the start-up founders. You should look to document everything, capture your thoughts and thought processes to ultimately create a foundation for the future. With internal standards, policies, cheat sheets and templates you can make sure that everyone in the company has the same focus and drive when it comes to your companies direction and customer service. For example, how to communicate to the customer when things go south, how much information and in what format to display it in the new module, how to prioritise features etc. When principles are well established, user experience is consistent and the interaction is predictable. As a result, the cognitive load is removed from the user and they feel empowered.Given the multiple hats a founder needs to wear, keeping everything in your head is a huge business risk and a path to burnout. That really does not happen to someone else.Father of three, husband of one; lifehacker, UX designer 

When I was deciding on my professional description, I revisited my vision and perspective on the profession, and my role in it. Ultimately, I see myself as UX practitioner, consciously attempting to provide answers, to serve real purposes for real people, effectively and delightfully.Effective — deliver the most relevant results with minimal effort and pain.Delightful — enjoyable and memorable experience that would keep the users coming back and be your advocate.Before getting into why our world needs UX design, let’s talk briefly about how the world was like when the concept of UX was even lesser known.Remember splash screens? Those Flash animated opening page that were virtually omnipresent? Let’s not look down too much on them, that was quite a step up from just converting printed pages to webpages. But I guess we can all tell why we seldom do splash screens anymore, we’ve probably all learnt first-hand that most users were looking for the skip button whenever spotting a splash screen; or just leave when they can’t tolerate not seeing what they expect.Innovations and entrepreneurship have always been around. In the tech startup world, we would ideate, design, build, test, demo, launch… and cross our fingers. We’ve also learnt to appreciate the value of research, marketing, business development and so. Better informed teams make better decisions, at least more likely to.So, why stop here? User experience design is about making more conscious and relevant decisions. I’d say UX design is the tech world’s actualization of the concept of calculated risks.I was asked to define UX when interviewed by Kate brought in a key concept to further our discussion — the word “design” in user experience design. We design with conscious intentions, at least we’re supposed to… In the context of user experience, it’s about getting to desired outcomes.Haven’t we just said the magic word? UX designers shall plead guilty with pride for using the word “why” so frequently. Making decisions or having opinions “just because” can be very difficult to us.Being known as the UX person in a coworking space, it’s quite often to be approached for UX feedback. I found myself always probing for more information rather than offering feedback rightaway. Asking why is a tool to keep it relevant.Most startups that I know of would have their first dedicated design hire as staff #12 to #15. A recent What sets UX design apart is the considerations on research, validation, and measurable results. My discoveries after talking with some early stage startup teams is that the UX principles and practices are not as widely known nor applied. This undermines the prospect of, and creates a huge loss of resources contributed to the less-UX-inclined startups.Some argue that early stage startups can’t afford the time and cost for UX design, as they’re always aggressively delivering. What good you’re doing if you’re frequently delivering irrelevant products? How about demonstrating to potential investors that you are a high-precision team?This post is an anchor to more UX-related posts. Please follow, recommend and leave comments.Visit my portfolio site at Special thanks to The UXist 

We’d love to hear your thoughts. You can e-mail feedback or get involved: If you haven’t already, you should How awesome is that? Thanks so much for making it happen.From the first meetup back in May, I set out on a strategic plan to use 6 months heading into the end of the year to experiment with hosting, preparation requirements, understanding the audience, purpose, and what success should look like at these events.The goal hasn’t been to nail down the perfect meetup, it was to engage the community in unbiased content, through unfiltered feedback, to show and maintain vulnerability, and to use experimentation of content and format to learn and authentically build a strong foundation for our community going forward.After 6 events and an equal 6 months of planning and learning, we’ve gathered a lot of interest and feedback on these themes:And with these themes as guides, we’re going to lead the Toronto UX Design community in two directions for 2015.Every quarter, TorontoUX will be hosted once at these locations:We’ve been paying close attention to and learning about what kind of needs our meetups require, and a space to facilitate learning design and exchanging ideas was a top priority for us. We fell in love with our new space as the place to get it done, and we’ll be using it for smaller focussed meetups throughout the year.Throughout the year The reason that tUX. decided to kick off this meetup group was to truly engage, fire up, inspire, integrate, and learn from the design community.The values that we brought, and the lessons and themes we wanted to explore and learn from as a company pervaded just slightly into each meetup. In retrospect, we asked ourselves “We’ll be running with 2 tracks of meetups: Education, and Workshops.We all have a lot to learn. As we grow an education and design teaching community from our new space, we’ve begun plans to budget for and invite guest lecturers and experts to help us learn. The first meetup of every quarter will be a lecture based on the theme’s being tackled and established via the workshop series to set a foundation for the UX/UI Design principles, Design Thinking, and business foundations required for the success of the workshops.The success of designers isn’t attributed to design, UX/UI, Product Strategy, and Design Thinking by themselves. It’s rooted in business success, business growth, and using design to further the business goals of startups and organizations. The first meetup of every quarter will be a lecture series rooted in focusing on design for tangible business goals that we will exercise in the workshop series.Two meetups will be focussed on workshops that work through Usability, User Research, Product Strategy, Interaction Design, and UI Design on projects via our Design Thinking framework. These workshops will be community led by Mustefa, Ricardo, and design leaders from agencies and companies in Toronto tackling real digital and meaningful problems.The focus of the meet-up will be very sharp, with an introduction to the design problem, and success criteria for the solution. Between 100 attendees, we will split into groups to tackle the problem for 1 hour, and each group will have 15 minutes to present their solutions to the meet-up, and startups for whose problem we’re solving. The second workshop meetup will carry forward that work. Tangibly solving problems over time.For every single meetup, we’re going to follow through with the sporadic chats we’ve experimented with in 2014. These will use the hashtag #uxchat. This chat is followed by folks locally and throughout the United States. They’re really special, and they work. Each meetup will also have a meaningful writeup recapping the evening, contributed by ourselves or a community member. Founder  CEO, Design Cofounders.Design, make, learn, change, share.

A lot has already been said about the advantages of leaving a big, well-established company for a startup. Stephen Cohen, co-founder of Palantir Technologies, said it best when he commented on the tendency to “The point of Cohen’s message is that startups and smaller companies can offer young professionals much more than the tangible luxuries of larger and more entrenched companies: a faster pace, constantly changing work, less red tape blocking you from getting work done, more freedom, and that intrinsic motivation of knowing that unless you hustle to stay ahead of your competitors, you might be out of a job.After five years at Google, I was ready for all of these things. I was no longer inspired by the work my team was doing, I didn’t feel like we were pushing ourselves towards new goals, and I felt weighed down by some core aspects of my job, like participant recruiting and writing formal research reports. Even worse, I felt powerless to influence the culture of my team. I’d gotten so depressed that I didn’t even think switching product teams within Google could persuade me to stay; it would still This is what led me to Yammer eight months ago. A friend of mine was working for their Marketing team and mentioned they were looking for User Researchers. At the time I didn’t know anything about Yammer, but the less I knew, the better. I wanted to work somewhere where I was really needed, somewhere I’d have to think hard about big problems that would determine the company’s larger strategy and success.Happily, I got all those things I was looking for in a smaller company: lots of freedom, a focus on getting research done fast, little-to-no red tape, a ton of support from peers and managers, and that common understanding of what’s at stake if we don’t figure our shit out. (And yes, Yammer is owned by Microsoft, a company that’s even bigger than Google. But from our office in San Francisco we still operate like a smaller, 300-person outfit.) But the things that really made me appreciate Yammer, the things that keep me coming back to work every day, became obvious in my first weeks here. These are the things I hadn’t realized would make a difference, but found while working at Yammer:Like most people my age, I won’t be at this job for the rest of my life. But when the time comes to move on, the things I’ll be looking for in my next job will be the things I realized were important during this one.We’re hiring designers, product managers, and researchers. Are you one of those things? Drop us a line at Stories from the people who make Yammer happen

In 2012, I missed a meeting. The founder of a well-known tech company had emailed me, asking to meet up. We’d picked a time, scheduled it, and…I’d forgotten to put it on my calendar. By the time I realized, it was too late.I’ll never know why this tech celebrity wanted to chat. Add it to the list of embarrassing moments that bubble up to the surface when my guard is down.This has happened to me more than once — and, I suspect, to you as well.Making that happen automatically was beyond my technical abilities — it would require expertise in natural language processing and machine learning — but as an interaction designer I knew I could reduce the effort needed to transfer the information to my calendar. I thought that might be enough.I wasn’t the first to tackle this problem. From When they’re successful, these integrations reduce a tedious, multi-step interaction to a few simple clicks, without taking you away from what you’re doing. When they fail, it’s because they build their own cumbersome workflows, and you still stumble over technology.I thought I could do better. I conceived a Gmail plug-in that would turn an email thread into a calendar event in just a few clicks. I designed it, showed it to a few advisors, and got positive feedback — even a suggestion of possible funding.As I was digging into the technical details, I met We talked about calendar-centric products, task-centric products, notebook-centric products. The more we talked, the more we came back to communication — and, increasingly, to texting or chat. Today, people text with friends, family, and co-workers to manage their daily chaos, especially the inevitable last-minute changes and snags. This involves a lot of typing (“Yeah, it’s a Chinese place downtown.” “I’m five blocks away!”), and a lot of app-switching. (“Hang on, I’ll check my calendar.”) It all adds up to something more than mere annoyance: Lost opportunities, like my missed meeting. Cranky spouses. Embarrassment and frustration, confusion and panic, as the details of daily life become overwhelming.Assistants like Siri and Google Now try to pull it all together for you. And as web search gets ever more powerful, we’ve seen how the right kind of content aggregation can create real convenience:But these moments of magic and efficiency are still few and far between. And they’re often far removed from the real action — strange notifications coming in from left field. The more Gummi and I discussed the problem, the more convinced we became that conversation is the center of the action. So why not bring the intelligence, the assistance, directly into the conversation?We set out to create Our big UX challenge? Keep it simple. Learn from our cumbersome predecessors and avoid repeating their mistakes. After all, texting itself is That’s especially tricky in a mobile app, where space is at a premium. It goes double for messaging: the keyboard is typically onscreen, leaving very little space for content.Our natural language processing engine lets us streamline the UX. It figures out what you’re trying to do: schedule a time to meet up, remind your spouse to take out the trash, etc. Because we detect these things, we don’t need UI to collect them.But that’s not a panacea. Coordination is a dialogue; technology can support it but can’t replace it. Software can determine that I’m scheduling something; it can show me my calendar for tonight; but it can’t tell me whether I feel like going out. No matter how smart technology gets, we need UI…we still have to interact with our users.One of our earliest designs is still one of my favorites. When you send or receive a message that suggests an action, we give you a small button right in the message:In usability tests over the years, I’ve seen plenty of users who are reluctant to explore unknown functionality; for them, a simple icon isn’t enough. We didn’t want to put a label on every button, since it would take up a lot of room. So, we added hints that appear the first three times a particular action button does. They let us play both sides of the trade-off between clarity on the one hand, and information density on the other.Those little buttons are great for simple actions, but we need to display information too. When you mention a restaurant, we want to give you reviews and available tables, not just a simple Reserve button. We want to show movie trailers and ratings and showtimes, not just a Buy Tickets option.We considered showing such information right in the chat, but we worried that these enhancements would overwhelm the conversation.We thought about making them expandable: the information is hidden at first, and a button expands it. Expandable/collapsible UI can be effective on the desktop, especially when it uses animation to preserve context (to help your eye track the transition of onscreen elements as one of them expands). But it’s rarely usable on mobile: even with animation, too much of the screen changes too fast for the user to follow what’s happened. That’s why simple iPhone interactions like picking from a list are implemented as drill-downs: it might seem heavier than an expansion, but you don’t lose your place.From the start, we’ve been intrigued by the idea of an alternate, coordination-centric view of the conversation, an organized view of the planning “thread” that weaves its way through the chat. So we chose an approach we called Voltron: a categorized list of all the dates, times, places, and other planning-related entities in the chat. A badge in the chat let you know when new Voltron items were waiting.Sometimes you have to build something before you understand its limitations. Once Voltron was functional enough to play with, we knew it wasn’t right. It was so close to the chat — just on the flip side — but that distance was an unbridgeable gulf. Out of sight, out of mind.A chat app needs the keyboard onscreen for quick typing and sending. Hiding and showing it all the time is irritating, especially on Android where the transition isn’t animated. But we thought we could use its real estate temporarily, putting our contextual info in a transient drawer that slid up over the keyboard.Say a friend texts you, “Are you free Friday night?” This approach worked perfectly…but….it was weird. Something about our novel over-the-keyboard approach just felt strange. Every time that drawer slid up it felt like we were violating some unspoken mobile UX principle. I can’t really explain it, but sometimes, “This feels weird,” is enough reason to seek another approach.All these attempts led us back to an approach we’d rejected: putting compact, highly relevant info in the messages themselves. Yes, it takes up space. Yes, it means less conversation onscreen at once. But in terms of providing information in context, you can’t beat it.Ultimately, we concluded the trade-off was worth it. We think users will too.Going forward, we can put our intelligent back-end to work here too, creating more situational nuance. Suppose you’re talking about your favorite restaurant. If we think you’re actively planning something, we can show you reservations, as we do now; but if you’re discussing the awesome meal you had last night, we can save space by omitting them.So at this point, our UX is a perfect reflection of a perfect product, and we plan to sit back and let the accolades and users roll in.Yeah, right.In implementing our enhancements, we’ve kept things really simple. We’re exploring deeper functionality, like more interactive coordination and collaboration, but we’re proceeding with caution: we’d much rather err on the side of simplicity than build a powerful solution that falls down of its own weight. We’re constantly mindful of our first UX principle: if we can’t make it easier than just replying to the message, we won’t build it.We’re also constantly evaluating and reconsidering our UX. At its core, it’s similar to other chat experiences. That’s great for the familiarity and instant usability it brings. But, is there something more appropriate to our target audience and the use cases we want to enable? Are there better navigational paradigms, more effective ways to present a conversation than the traditional chat-bubble view? We’re sketching, designing, and prototyping…and time will tell.I remain especially excited about the ongoing partnership between UX and AI. Our UI can facilitate the necessary dialogue between the AI and the user; and it can manage the fact that a machine-learning system is probabilistic (you can’t always predict what it will come up with, nor can you ensure 100% accuracy). Meanwhile, the AI can enable the UX to tailor itself not only to time and place, not merely to the content of a conversation in the abstract, but to the interplay between those things, and a user’s own behavior over time. Truly intelligent UX is an outgrowth of every signal we can throw at it, both microscopic and macroscopic. We’re just scratching the surface so far.Emu for iPhone is currently in beta. You can download it Product designer, beer  food lover, skier in San Francisco. PM at Google. Former Emu, CrunchFund, AOL, Yahoo. Opinions are my own.

I decided to give Before I begin — a quick thought. I can vouch for the difficulty in building a product. While I will be honest in my teardown, it is just an attempt to suggest improvements. More power to the makers of Helpchat — I would love to have a product like Helpchat!While the red balls signify minor tweaks — I have a more fundamental dissonance with upfront mobile verification.Having a hurdle right upfront, especially for a new service, sounds wrong to me. I would move this later into the flow — possibly as a penultimate step before Helpchat told me about the visa agents I could connect with.I noticed the same issue when I connected with my Helpchat assistant for the day — “Priyanka”.At a high level, I love the fact that Helpchat has taken a leap forward with a bot. A wise man once told me Bangalore is hardly the silicon valley of India.So, the geek in me is excited that Helpchat is trying to solve the problem with silicon. However, a good bot is like the Slackbot. Upfront about being a bot and a little goofy. That ways, even if the bot messes up, the user feels affectionate and forgiving.Regarding my chat with “Priyanka”, I wondered (again) — even before I know if Helpchat can help me or not, why do I need to jump through 5 hoops: Mobile number verification, first name, last name, my age group and my email.I am sure this 5 minute process is one time. But, why risk abandonment before users experience your product?After I answered 4 set-up questions from Priyanka, I got a response from her (The final nail in the coffin was the unresponsive and unpredictable experience I had upon clicking on To give the Helpchat team credit, Ankur did reach out through a common friend when he heard about my experience. The team is working hard on fixing some of this. A kickass Helpchat experience in the upcoming versions would be my reward for spending a couple of hours on this.

Because personas focus on creating a story made up of a customer’s attributes, instead of a story that explains a purchase, personas leave the brain in a unsatisfied state. To fix this, in just a split second, the brain decides to make up it’s own story about why the customer made a particular decision.The reason why the brain work like this, has to do with cognitive biases; specifically, a phenomenon Daniel Kahneman calls What You See Is All There Is (WYSIATI).The way to mitigate these unintended effects is to replace Personas with models that enable cohesive stories. These models are called Characters.via Learnings from the Facebook Design team on spending a few weeks designing for the Samsung Gear VR — including the hack-a-month methodology and some takeaways on the design process and patterns used.The mythical UX unicorn; we’ve all felt the pressure to become one, and many of us have gained or are actively pursuing unicorn status. But do we truly need to be masters of the entire UX spectrum?When it came the time to redesign Dropbox’s five-year-old Android app, the goal was to downplay design even more. Now, that may not seem like an impressive feat, but the company managed to make the UI even more straightforward.Late last month, Wyatt Mitchell left The New Yorker for Apple. The question is, why? At the end of May, word quietly slipped that New Yorker creative director Wyatt Mitchell left the publication for a job at Apple.Incorporating the needs of users for a feature that has not explicitly been developed or used is a tough endeavor. Designing and developing the needs that surround beacon optimization comes from a contextual understanding of their function and the user’s needs.One of the biggest flaws of today’s tools is their failure to allow designers to easily work with real data. Because of this, designers often fill their mocks with idealized information that is anything but representative. How do we fix that?“I often come across questions from UX aspirants enquiring about courses they should take up in UX, HCI or Interaction Design. Instead of writing to each of them separately I decided to put it together in this post.”via Brought to you by your friends at Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Come check out Salesforce User Experience team in the Lightning Experience is a modern, productive user experience designed to help you do more and be more efficient. With the launch of Lightning Experience, we’ve focused on your sales reps, with a re-envisioned desktop experience to support your sales process. The result is a more productive interface, designed to support how sales reps work on a daily basis.We’ve been working hard building the next generation of Enterprise UX, and are proud to present the We’re partnering with Learn how our partners and customers build on the Salesforce Platform using the Salesforce Lightning Design System and how the Design System is a game changer for their apps’ development.Do you have thoughts on how to improve Salesforce? Our research team would love hear them! Stop by our Research Wall to post your comments, praise, or new ideas.No conference would be complete without session and hands-on workshops.Check out our Learn more about the Salesforce Lightning Design System with UX Design Producer at SalesforceA collection of stories, case studies, and ideas from Salesforce UX

Há algum tempo tenho reparado que vários profissionais estão atualizando o nome do cargo no Linkedin para UX/UI Designer. E esses dias me deparei com esse artigo de Catalina Rusu chamado “O artigo começa com o seguinte lembrete:Depois de um tempo que o nome “UX/UI Designer” começou a surgir por aí, ficou muito mais raro encontrar empresas querendo contratar “apenas” UI Designers. Por que eu vou abrir duas vagas se eu posso pagar um salário só para ter o pacote completo? E foi aí que os designers começaram a perceber que adicionar a barra inclinada no nome do cargo ajudava a torná-los mais atrativos para as empresas contratantes. Dois-em-um. Muito melhor.O problema, segundo o artigo, é o seguinte:E prossegue:Polêmico. E nesse ponto eu discordo um pouco.Eu mesmo conheço vários UX/UI designers que realmente têm experiência nessas duas áreas. Profissionais que conseguem pensar nos detalhes das interfaces, nas peculiaridades das interações, design visual, branding e usabilidade — e que também são ótimos em fazer pesquisas com consumidores, definir estratégia de produtos, roadmaps, testes de usabilidade, colher insights e ajudar a definir o público-alvo do produto, bem como suas necessidades e desejos ao percorrerem a jornada.Na dúvida, o artigo termina com uma lista de atividades comuns de um UX Designer, como forma de ajudar o profissional que está no meio do caminho a entender se ele realmente desempenha esse papel (UX) ou se ele está mais focado no desenho das interfaces (UI):Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

By User Experience is focused heavily on trying to understand context, activities and people to better solve their problems. If we know and understand the people who are using our product, we’ll be able to design a better product for them. Below are six tried and true strategies for ensuring your website is user friendly, taken from our Keep in mind that many users will come to your site via a secondary page. For example, a user can be sent a direct link to a specific page on your site through email or social media. Some common secondary pages that may be linked to include:Wherever a user enters your site, it’s an opportunity for you to suck them into your experience and convert them into a regular user. Therefore, all possible landing pages should easily convey what the site is and why they should stay.Simple page titles mean users can quickly find what they’re looking for. When naming your navigation bar, keep in mind what your target audience would use to describe your categories.Do your research to figure out what terms people are searching when they get to your site and make those pages easily accessible in your navigation.One way people research in the UX space is with an Knowing this, it is key to align your content within the pattern. For example, When you write for the web, it’s important to avoid long paragraphs. Large blocks of text work much better on paper than they do on the web.Consistency is also something you need to keep in mind in terms of readability. If you are working on a site which has many content contributors, it’s important to train them on proper headings and line breaks, as it helps users quickly identify which content is significant.When taking into consideration contrast, it’s good to know that black text on a white background is the easiest to read. There is an exception here when a user might be staring at the screen for a long time. This can then cause the eyes to strain, and so using a black background a white text is recommended in that case, just like how most developers tend to use a dark background for their work.If someone is looking to fill out a form on your site, chances are they’re ready to dive right into whatever you have to offer. Making this experience easy for them is vital in converting. Every bit of extra work you require from them, the less likely they are to return.There are pages on every single website that a lot of people forget about. One example is the 404 Page. Some tips to turn the frustration of your user hitting a 404 page into an engaging experience are:Take a deeper dive into user experience design.GA transforms thinkers into creators through education and opportunities in tech, business, and design.Latest stories in the growing field of UX Design

Talking to many product managers and designers from companies as big as Google and eBay to mid size startups as Fiverr and down to small teams — Nobody is practicing the same process.Of course, they all know The Lean Startup by heart, and swear by their scrum or kanban boards, but every organization has optimized its agile process to fit the skillsets of people on board and to help them bridge any communication gaps they might be having. In that sense, from what I can tell, a lot of companies look at processes very carefully and try to have as little process as possible to get shit done fast without becoming a bureaucratic mess.Companies customize their agile process to fit their workforce skillsets. The same rule applies when recruiting talent in general, and designers in specific. Companies are trying to find the person with the most relevant mixture of skills to fit what the company needs in that particular moment.Pardon my kitsch — each and every one of us is unique. I think it was Tim Brown who coined the phrase Building on that phrase from the company perspective brought me to think of a “This equation differs from place to place in what stands behind every part of it. In some companies value is created when designers do heavy front end development on a daily basis on top of some UX design (Go figure..), and in other companies a value is created when designers do UX design, some product work and UI design on top of that — This is the classic requirement in most early stage startups and the most challenging and exhilarating based on my experience. The point is, that everything goes as long as skills and needs are met. if not, one side usually has to adapt.Getting back to where I started — There is no “One Designer Title Fits All”. There’s no point in trying to make one or fight about it. That automatically applies to the essence of the job and to the skills we might believe are a must for every designer.We all must find the title and skills that fit best with our Designer  Thinker

#HCI/UX4 — 애플의 UX가 다른 기업과 다른 이유애플이 간밤에 아이폰6(iPhone 6), 아이폰6 플러스(iPhone 6 Plus), 애플 페이(Apple Pay), 그리고 One more thing, 애플 워치(Apple Watch)를 발표했다. 여러 가지 제품들과 앱, 그리고 서비스에 대한 이야기가 오갔지만, 시간 순서에 따른 단편적인 키노트 소개는 다른 유명 블로그들에서 잘 정리해줄 것이다. 키노트의 상당수 시간은 아이폰6보다는 소위 애플 시리즈, 애플 페이와 애플 워치에 집중됐다. 특히 그간 스티브 잡스(Steve Jobs)가 보여준 친절한 키노트에 비하면, 아이폰6에 대한 이번 키노트는 굉장히 단순하고, 불친절 했다. 이는 애플이 아이폰에 거는 기대나 그간 쏟았던 역량의 수준이 더이상 예전에 미치지 못함을 방증한다. 사용자 경험(UX) 역시 혁신보다는 안정 속 작은 변화를 추구하는 것에 방점을 찍었다. 사용해보지 않은 제품이나 서비스에 대해 함부로 UX를 논하는 것을 꺼려하지만, 몇 가지 큰 변화를 중심으로 예상되는 UX를 논해보면 다음과 같다.디스플레이가 커짐으로 인해 발생할 수 있는 문제들을 해결하고자 몇몇 모드에서 UI에 많은 변화를 주었다. 하지만 전반적인 변화는 live streaming을 보면서 경악의 awesome을 연발하기에 충분했다. 갤럭시 노트에서 보았던 UI를 형태만 약간 다를 뿐 그대로 재현했기 때문이다. 한손 조작 모드, 가로 보기 등은 모두 갤럭시 노트 시리즈에서 제공해주었던 UI와 다르지 않다. 특히 한손 조작 모드가 주는 비주얼적인 우스꽝스러움은 애플이 아이폰 UX에 대한 고민을 크게 하지 않았음을 알 수 있다(“최소한 애플이라면” 이라는 기대를 꺾어버린 평범함 이었다.). 한편으론 정해진 폼팩터 하에서 UI의 변화를 통해 새로운 UX를 제공하는 것은 그만큼 어려운 것이라는 걸 새삼 깨닫게 만든 UI였다.그럼에도 불구하고 UX는 기존의 것들과는 다를 것으로 보인다. 애플은 예전부터 극도로 싫어하는 ‘설정하는 UX’를 피하기 위해, 추가된 기능들이 최대한 간결하게 작동되도록 단순화 했다. 한손 조작 모드는 별도의 설정이 필요 없이 홈버튼을 두번 터치하는 것 만으로도 작동되도록 했고, 가로 보기는 그들의 집착스러운 비율 디자인으로 굉장히 간결하게 보인다. HCI 분야에서는 이러한 architecture 요소(HCI의 3요소에 대한 설명은 커졌다. 커진 만큼 더 선명하고 잘 보여야 한다. 아이폰이 고수하던 4인치를 마침내 탈피했는데, 여기에 대한 사용자들의 반응은 사뭇 달랐다. 하드웨어 스펙 차이로 인한 반응의 차이가 대다수인지라, 그 부분은 빼고 이야기 하겠다.디스플레이가 커지면서 예상되는 발생 가능한 UX의 문제는 한손으로 파지하여 뭔가를 작동시킬때의 불안정성이다. 위의 한손 조작 모드도 그래서 나온 것인데, 그보다 더 큰 문제는 아이폰의 장점이자, 아이폰만의 감성인 사진과 비디오 촬영에서의 UX이다. 드러난 스펙으로만 보면, 올해 들어 사실상 거의 모든 스마트폰이 OIS(Optical Image Stabilizer, 광학식 영상 흔들림 방지)를 채용한 가운데, 유독 하드웨어적으로의 카메라 기술 도입에 소극적이었던 아이폰이 전격적으로 OIS를 채용했다. 또한 더 나은 센서 기술(매번 강조되는!), 더 향상된 소프트웨어, 더 다양한 기능(slo-mo 240fps, advanced panorama shot 등)을 부가했다.카메라와 관련된 다양한 UX는 사용해봐야 알겠지만, 그들의 말을 빌리면 더 정교하고, 더 정확하고, 더 감성적이고, 더 안정적이며, 더 자동화 된 카메라 기술을 채용했다. 이 기술들은 모두 UX와 연결되어 있고, 이것은 Task-Technology Fit Theory에서 주요 개념으로 꼽는 quality, compatibility, ease of use, systems reliability 과 연결지어 설명할 수 있다. 이 이론은 IS(Information System)분야에서 주로 쓰이는 이론으로, 개인적으로 키노트를 보면서 가장 먼저 떠올랐던 이론이었다. 여기서 쓰인 주요 개념들을 기반으로 쉽게 풀어보면 애플은 다음과 같은 철학으로 아이폰6의 개발에 접근했다고 볼 수 있다.일단 사용자 입장에서 8MP iSight camera, 1.5µ pixels, ƒ/2.2 aperture와 같은 스펙은 얼리어답터가 아니면 크게 중요하지 않다. 스마트폰은 이미 상향 평준화 되어 있고, 아이폰은 여전히 사진 성능에 있어서 타사 대비 훌륭하다. 애플은 매킨토시 시절부터 그래픽에 있어선 일가견이 있는 집단이기에, 하드웨어 논쟁은 본 글에서 할 필요가 없다. 매번 더 나은 센서로, 사용자에게 갤럭시 시리즈를 쓰다 보면 기능이 추가되면서 UI가 자주 바뀌는 것에 적응하기 어려운 부분이 많았다. 훌륭한 UX를 제공할 수 있는 functionality가 있음에도 불구하고 UI로 인해 UX가 저해되는 경우들이 많은데, 아이폰은 지겨우리만큼 안정적이다. 이러한 총평하자면, 더 크고 넓은 디스플레이와 이로 인해 발생되는 UX의 문제를 해소하기 위한 기술적 진보로써 더 나은 카메라와 소프트웨어 개선을 하는데 집중했다. 특히 그 과정에서 아이폰6와 아이폰6 플러스는 차별점을 두었는데, 보다 넓은 아이폰6 플러스만 OIS 기술을 채용했다는 점은 그들의 철학을 충분히 담은 결정이라 보여진다. 4.7인치의 제품에서는 OIS 없이도 사진이나 비디오 기능에 대한 UX를 일정 수준 이상 제공할 수 있다는 자신감이 반영되었을 것이다. 물론 그것이 ‘사용자’가 아닌 ‘소비자’의 입장에서는 납득하기 어려운 개똥철학으로 받아들여질 지는 몰라도 :-)그들의 평소 행보로 볼 때, 아이폰6에 대한 키노트는 는 이전에 비해 추가된 기능이나 서비스에 대한 설명 비중을 줄였다. 헬스케어에 대한 기능이 대폭 추가되었지만 크게 강조하는 모양새는 아니다.그럼에도 불구하고 몇 가지 변화를 위한 단초들을 제공해주었다. 결론적으로 애플은 헬스, 피트니스와 같은 비슷한 용어들을 썼지만 그들이 추구하는 UX의 목표는 Lifecare Experience라는 걸 알 수 있다. 헬스케어 서비스와 모션 센서의 진보, 그리고 개인화에서 해답을 찾아볼 수 있다.먼저 헬스케어 서비스는 사용자의 activity context를 기본으로 한다. 어떻게 움직이고, 얼마나 움직였고, 어떤 효과를 불러오는지를 분석하고 데이터베이스화 해서 사용자에게 의미 있는 형태로 제공해주는 것이 HCI에서 고민해야 할 부분인데, 아직 애플도 이 부분에 있어서 충분한 연구를 기울이지는 못한 것으로 보인다. 그래서 애플은 일단 데이터의 기본적인 형태를 visual graphic으로 보여주고, 사용자에게 신체에 대한 최소한의 판단을 맡겼다. 아직 제대로 작동되는 서비스의 형태를 보지 못했기에 UX에 대해 논하기 어렵지만, 세계적인 의료 단체인 Mayo Clinic과 제휴해 협력하고 있고 그 외에도 수 많은 업체들이 함께 하고 있어 이는 곧 굉장한 폭발력을 가질 것이라고 생각된다. 의료 서비스와의 연계를 위한 정보들이 얼핏 보이는 것만 봐도, 애플은 확실히 백그라운드에서 움직이고 있고 단지 이번 키노트에서는 이를 준비하며 지켜보고 있다는 싸인(sign)을 보냈다는 인상이다.Notification의 개인화와 Touch ID의 확장은 애플 워치에 가려졌지만 매우 중요하게 살펴보아야 할 부분이다. Touch ID의 경우 처음 나왔을 당시에만 해도, 사용자의 개인정보 우려를 불식시키기 위해 자사의 앱스토어와 아이폰 제어에만 한정적으로 작동되는 것임을 강조했다. 타 앱에서 활용되지 않게 하겠다는 뜻이다. 그런데 아이러니 하게도, 아주 강력한 이 보안 시스템을 짧게 스치듯 언급하며 슬그머니 써드파티에 확장 적용했다. 물론 API공개를 통해 WWDC 2014에서 이미 확장한 사안이지만, mint.com의 예시를 통해 이를 스치듯 강조하고 나선 것은 모든 서비스 보안체계의 중심을 Touch ID로 통합하겠다는 것이다.한편 앞서 언급한 mint.com은 개인화된 금융 관리 서비스이다. 새로운 Notification 역시 개인화 된 알림 기능을 제공하기 시작했다. 키노트에서 mint.com을 Touch ID의 예시로 들고, Notification의 개인화 UI를 선보이기 시작했다는 점은 개인화에 역량을 집중하겠다는 것이다. 실제 애플은 사용자에게 이러한 개인화 서비스나 UI를 강조한 적이 없다. 결국 개인화를 위해 옵션을 부여할 부분은 부여하되, 보다 높은 레벨에서의 UX 관점에서 Notification이나 Touch ID와 같은 기능을 정비하고 사용자가 어느 서비스나 기능을 활용하건 동일한 수준의 UX를 느낄 수 있도록 준비했다는 인상을 받았다.키노트는 순서상 애플 페이를 먼저 설명하였지만, 본 글에서는 애플 워치를 먼저 살펴보고자 한다. UX에 있어서 이 글의 핵심이 될만한 철학들을 엄청나게 담아낸, 말그대로 앞으로 애플의 방향을 가늠해볼 수 있는 요소들이 많기 때문이다. 그들은 키노트의 많은 부분을 애플은 서두에서 그들이 만들어낸 제품군에서 HCI적으로 어떤 Interaction 기술을 도입해 UX를 만들어냈는지 설명하였다. 클릭휠이나 터치 등 애플이 선구적으로 대중화시킨 이 UX는 모두 21세기 최고의 UX라 칭할만큼 혁신적이었다. UX라는 용어의 대중화 역시 그들이 만들어낸 제품에 녹아 있는 이 UX 철학들이 일반 사람들에게도 와닿으면서 이루어졌다. 그만큼, HCI/UX 분야에 애플의 공헌도는 높다는 사실을 그 누구도 부인할 수 없을 것이다.그들의 철학은 이번에도 이어졌다. 굳이 키노트 장소를 바꿔가면서 애플이라는 집단이 어느 방향으로 나아갈 것이라는 걸 강조한 것은, 그들이 이야기한 대로 혁신의 출발을 그들이 가장 잘하는 UX에서 찾았기 때문이다. 스마트 워치는 아예 새로운 제품이고, 폼팩터의 변화에 따라 HCI의 3요소에 있어서 변화는 필수적이다(나는 이번 나는 크게 Traditionality(전통성), Borderless(경계없음), Inherent Depth(내재된 깊이감)을 애플 워치에서 볼 수 있는 조나단 아이브(Jonathan Ive)는 애플의 기존 제품 디자인 철학을 그대로 담았다. 키노트에서도 팀쿡이 잠깐 언급했다. 스마트폰의 Interface를 그대로 옮겨 담는 것은 어리석은 짓이지만 대부분의 제품들이 버튼과 터치에 의존하고 있다. 스마트 워치를 바라보는 사용자들의 UX에 대한 인식을 계속해서 ‘스마트폰’의 UX에 맞추게 만드는 이유이다.그래서 그들은 스마트폰의 Border는 사각이다. 사각 프레임 내에서 적합한 GUI 프레임은 당연히 사각이다. 그러나 애플은 애플 워치가 거의 사각에 가까운 형태임에도 불구하고 사각 프레임을 버리고 철저히 곡선적이고 경계 없는 GUI를 제공한다. 이는 세 번째로 소개할 깊이감과도 관련성이 있다.내가 HCI/UX분야에서 연구하는 주된 영역인 그러나 애플이 손목에 착용하는 스마트 워치라는 특성을 놓치지 않고 있음은 몇 가지 센서를 보면 확인할 수 있다. 눈에 띄는 핵심은 시계의 뒷면에 있는데, 애플은 가시광선 LED와 적외선 LED가 탑재되어 있다고 밝혔다. 4개의 LED 가운데 2개는 심박수를 측정하는 Green LED이고, 나머지 2개 가운데 하나는 적외선(IR) LED이다. 나머지는 산소포화도를 측정하는 적색 LED의 투과율 변화를 받아들일 Photodiode이다(이 설명은 직접 현장에 다녀온 모 기업 관계자분께 들은 설명이다.). 물론 애플 워치의 출시가 내년 초인 만큼 탑재되는 센서는 얼마든지 변할 수 있지만, 키노트에서 가장 많이 강조했던 “애플 역사상 가장 개인화 된 디바이스” 라는 것은 personal data를 적극적으로 활용하겠다는 방증인 만큼 이 센서들은 Bio-signal Detection에 활용될 것이 자명하다.아무튼 이러한 센서를 비롯해 음성 인식 등 다양한 센서들을 활용한 Interaction이 특히 부각되었다. 건강 정보를 활용해 진동 feedback으로 적재적소에 정보나 알림 사항을 전달할 수도 있고, GUI를 활용해 사용자의 생활에 도움을 주는 Interaction을 시도할 수 있다. 음성 인식을 활용해 Interaction하는 것은 Siri의 성능에 달렸는데, 그들은 이것 역시 내년 초까지 최대한 업그레이드하려고 노력할 것이다.가장 특징적인 것은 또한 사용자의 생체리듬과 커뮤니케이션 데이터를 기반으로 Interaction을 시도할 수 있게 도와준다. 적절한 소리, 진동, 그 외에도 그래피컬한 GUI 메시징은 애플 워치의 지향점이 단순히 정보를 보여주는 것에 있지 않음을 드러내는 대목이다. 사용자는 사람-사람 간의 상호작용을 매개하는 역할로의 기계가 아닌, 주체하는 역할로의 동반자에 대한 경험을 애플 워치를 통해 할 수 있다.애플이 어도비사의 Kevin Lynch를 영입해 웨어러블 분야의 CTO로 앉히면서 특히 Architecture에 있어서 큰 변화를 주도할 것이라는 생각이 들었다. 그는 어도비에서도 드림위버 소프트웨어 사업부를 이끌던 인물로 멀티스크린, 클라우드, 소셜컴퓨팅 전략 등을 수립했던 인물이다. 복잡한 그래픽 소프트웨어 툴에 관여한 경력과 멀티스크린, 클라우드 등 Architecture가 핵심인 분야에서의 경험은 분명 새로운 제품군의 전략에 녹아들었을 것이다. 애플 워치에서 확인할 수 있었던 Concreteness, Symbolicalness, Connotation의 키워드는 이는 다른 화면에서도 동일하다. 기본적으로 곡선의 Interface를 가진 애플 워치가 Architecture의 안정감을 가져오기 위해서 자연물의 모양을 그대로 가져왔다. 네모와 원으로 구성된 UI의 기본 컨셉은 Architecture를 안정적으로 설계하는데 도움이 됐다. 기본적으로 애플 워치가 기록하고 보여주는 정보는 대부분 한 화면에서 보여질 때 효율적이어야 하는 context나 status 정보들이기 때문에, Symbolicalness의 속성을 잘 드러내고 있다.특히 스케치, 워키토키, 탭, 심박 의 4가지 새로운 커뮤니케이션 요소들은 사용자들의 social interaction 방식에 큰 변화를 일으킬 수 있는 대표적인 connotative architecture이다. 종례의 문자 메시지가 주던 딱딱하고 함축적이지 못한 메시징 요소들을 social media에서 사진과 비디오로 대체해가고 있다면, 한편으로 스마트 워치와 같은 간단한 도구에서는 오히려 감성적이고 추상적 구조로 커뮤니케이션을 대체하도록 하고 있다.나는 이미 기업들이 스마트 워치에 대한 접근을 패션으로 해서는 절대 안된다고 여러번 언급하였다. 스마트 워치를 패션으로 생각해 구매할 사람은 세상 어디에도 없기 때문에, HCI/UX 관점에서 새로운 철학으로의 접근이 필요함을 이야기 한 적이 있다(“애플 워치는 이러한 측면에서 참 애플은 패션의 핵심을 ‘취향’이라는 키워드로 정의했다. 가장 ‘개인적’인 디바이스, 이것도 강조했다. 동시에 일단 용두를 달았다. 시계를 최소한 알고 설계한다는 인상을 주었다. 제대로 된 시계의 기본은 용두이다. 또한 용두를 돌리는 방식을 시계 사용자들은 이미 이해하고 있다. 시계 사용자들이 갖는 시계에 대한 기본적인 이미지를 읽었다는 이야기다. 또한, 그들은 기존의 업체들과 collaboration을 통해 타사의 브랜드 이미지를 가져오지 않았다. 이미지에 편승한다는 것은 그들만의 철학이 사라진다는 것을 의미하기에, 그러기 보다는 애플 브랜드가 어필하는 고유의 이미지를 고수하고자 노력했다. 애플 제품 사용자 특유의 취향을 자극해보고자 했다. 달이나 행성과 같은 GUI와 다양한 Watchface는 스마트 워치가 가질 수 있는 fancy한 속성은 살리되 시계에 대한 사람들의 기본 취향에 충실하겠다는 의지가 반영된 결과물이라 할 수 있다.한편 기본적인 UX 요소들을 일관되게 유지하면서, 크기에 있어 2가지의 애플 워치 플랫폼에 3가지 타겟 variation과 수십가지 소재차이를 두었다. 개인화를 이해한다는 것이다. 나는 애플이 단일 버전의 제품에 이렇게 많은 옵션을 둔걸 본적이 없다. 그들의 라인업은 맥프로, 아이맥, 맥미니, 맥북프로, 맥북에어, 아이폰, 아이패드 시리즈를 거의 1년에서 1년반에 한번씩 커다란 리뉴얼을 하며 성능 차이에 따른 2~3가지 옵션 이외에 그 어떠한 구색도 추가적으로 제공하지 않았었다. 사파이어 글래스는 고급 시계 카테고리의 취향을 반영하겠다는 것이고, 18k 시계를 만든다는 건 기존 시계들의 흐름도 튀지 않고 편승하겠다는 것이다. 나만 해도 고급 시계 뿐만 아니라 스포츠 시계, 악세서리 시계 등을 갖고 있다. 이러한 시계 사용자 타겟에 따른 개인화 가능성을 높이려는 시도는 애플이 시계의 특성을 제대로 이해하고 있기에 가능했다.그런데 이러한 전략은 애플의 과거 행보를 보면 고개가 끄덕여지는 전략이다. 그들은 고집스러게도 어려운 제조 공법을 활용하는 것에 주저하지 않는다. 한 때 ‘유니바디’ 맥북이 유행할 만큼, 소재 특성상 만들기 어려운 소위 ‘통짜’ 디자인도 해 냈던 것을 기억하지 않는가?더구나 시계에서 단적으로 가장 중요한 것은 제조이다. 삼성이나 LG등 국내 기업들이 앞다퉈 좌우에 버튼이 달렸거나 터치 스크린을 휘거나 원으로 만드는 것에 승부수를 거는 것은 틀린 전략이 아니다. 다만, 이것이 제조를 위한 제조로 느껴지는 것이 사용자를 고려하지 않았기 때문이다. 반면 애플은 사용자를 위한 제조를 고민했고, 시계가 갖는 고유의 특징적인 외관 디자인을 대부분 그대로 가져오는 전략을 택했다. 스마트 워치 시장에서 UX에 대한 철학 없이 헤매는 수 많은 제품들을 뒤로 하고, 애플의 그것을 기다리게 만드는 이유가 바로 그들의 UX에 대한 깊은 사고 때문이다.사실 수 많은 회사들이 NFC를 기반으로 결제 시장에 진출했지만, 뾰족한 성공 사례는 찾아보기 힘들었다. 사용자들은 화폐가 아닌 신용카드를 온전히 결제수단으로 받아들이는데 오랜 시간이 걸렸다. 역사적 흐름을 보더라도 기존의 수단을 ‘디지털화’의 물결 속에서 대체하는 시도는 수백번의 실패 끝에 성공한다. 가장 큰 이유는 사용자들의 “굳이 기존의 것을 대체할 필요가 있는가?”라는 질문에 대한 강력한 해답을 내놓기 어렵기 때문이다.그런데 애플이 드디어 아이폰에 결제 기능을 넣었다. 애플 워치도 가능하다고 밝혔다. 더 이상 지갑에서 신용카드를 꺼내어 타인에게 전달해 긁는 것은 할 필요가 없다. 결제 과정에서의 기술로는 항간에 ‘애플에게선 버려졌다’던 NFC가 전격 도입되었다. 그들은 패스북(Passbook)을 만들어 카드 지갑으로써의 역할을 부여한 아이폰에 대한 사용자의 인지도를 높이고, 터치 ID로 보안의 편의성을 높인 다음, NFC 기술을 채용하고 애플 페이라는 결제 서비스로 마침내 새로운 UX를 설계했다.기본적인 내용은 다음과 같다: 신용카드는 패스북에 있고, 사용자는 지갑 대신 패스북을 쓴다. 신용카드 정보는 패스북에 없고, 아이튠즈를 통해 등록된 정보를 패스북이 가져온다. 결제 과정에서 신용카드 정보의 노출은 아예 없다. 기기마다 부여된 고유 계정 번호(Device Account Number)가 암호화 되어 아이폰과 애플와치의 보안 엘리먼트(Secure Element)에 저장된다. 이 번호는 결제 과정에서 일회성 고유번호로써 승인되며, 카드 뒷면의 CVC 코드 대신 동적 보안 코드(dynamic security code)를 생성해 확인한다.여기까지가 기술적으로 작동되는 모든 것이다. 사용자에게 제공되는 UX는 어떨까? NFC기능이 켜져 있는 상태에서, 단말기에 아이폰을 대고 Touch ID로 지문인식을 하면 끝난다. 모든 결제의 주도권은 사용자에게 주어지며, 그 과정은 간단하다. 보안성과 편의성을 중시했다는 애플의 설명은 허언이 아닌 셈이다.은행과 통신사의 다툼 속에서 안드로이드 진영의 NFC와 결제 시스템의 조화는 전혀 찾아볼 수 없었다. 그러나 애플이 애플 페이를 공개하면서 드러난 협력사들의 면면을 보면, 그들이 가진 플랫폼이 협상력을 발휘하는데 얼마나 위대한가를 새삼 확인하게 해주었다. 애플은 뱅크오브아메리카(Bank of America), 캐피탈원뱅크(Capital One Bank), 체이스(Chase), 시티(Citi), 웰스 파고(Wells Fargo) 등 주요 은행이 발행하는 아메리칸 익스프레스(American Express), 마스터카드(MasterCard), 비자(Visa) 등 미국 3대 결제 네트워크가 모두 참여하도록 했다. 또한 가맹점 역시 자사의 애플 스토어를 비롯해, 블루밍데일, 디즈니 스토어, 디즈니 월드, 메이시스, 맥도널드, 세포라, 스테이플스, 서브웨이, 월그린 등 미 전역에서 벗어날 수 없을 정도의 영역을 커버한다.더 놀라운 것은 애플 워치에 있다. Touch ID가 구조적으로 탑재되기 어려운 디바이스인데, 대안의 하나로 다른 의미의 Touch ID를 탑재할 것으로 예고됐다. 앞서 언급한 워치 후면의 센서들은 다양한 정보를 detect할 수 있기 때문에, 피부 인증을 통해 보안성을 담보할 수 있다는 이야기다. 이와 관련해 실제 마스터카드의 모바일 결제 담당인 에드 맥러플린은 최근 인터뷰에서 “애플은 접촉 없는 결제에 대한 위험을 알고 있으며, 이에 대한 해결책을 갖고 있다”고 언급해 애플 워치가 애플의 새로운 결제 서비스에 준비가 되었음을 알렸다.오늘 키노트의 처음에 등장했던 그들의 메시지는 ‘이러한 철학이 잘 녹여 실제 사용자에게 경험을 제공하는 것에 대한 연구 분야가 바로 HCI/UX이다. 그래서 애플이 근본적으로 HCI/UX를 대하는 태도는 우리나라의 그것과는 완전히 다르다. 대부분의 회사들이 UX를 ‘기획’, ‘개발’, ‘디자인’의 단편적인 관점에서 용어를 무턱대고 남발한다. “사용자 조사를 해서 UX를 디자인 해야 한다.” 라고 하면서, 경험(experience)이 무엇인지에 대한 고민이 전혀 없다. 그러니 사용자를 제대로 이해하고 만들어낼리 만무하다.서두에서 밝혔듯, 이 글은 철저히 HCI/UX관점에서 이번 키노트를 분석한 것이다. 거의 live로 작성해서 서두른 감이 없지 않지만, 가감 없이 분석했고 본질을 보려 노력했다. 제품의 장단점이나 소위 ‘뽐뿌’에 대한 설명이 필요하다면 다른 블로그나 뉴스 기사를 보시면 더욱 좋을 것이다. 나는 애플빠가 아니기 때문이다. 그래서 한번도 키노트를 이렇게까지 본방 사수해가며 본 적이 없었다. 내가 굳이 이렇게 한 그 이유는 그들의 키노트 준비 행보와 관련이 있었다.애플은 이번에 공개한 아이폰6 시리즈와 애플 워치, 애플 페이의 성공 여부와는 관계 없이, 스티브 잡스의 흔적을 없애고 완전히 새로운 출발을 하고자 키노트 장소까지 유서 깊은 곳으로 바꿨다. 발표 방식이나 형태도 스티브 잡스 작고 이 후 가장 달랐다. 통상적으로 제품이나 서비스를 준비하는데 2년 정도의 기간이 필요하다는 점을 감안하면, 스티브 잡스의 숨결이 하나도 남아 있지 않은 첫 제품과 서비스였다고도 말할 수 있겠다. 이러한 의미로만 놓고 봐도, 이번 키노트에서 공개된 제품이나 서비스의 완성도나 겉모습과는 별개로 반드시 눈여겨 봐야 할 이유가 있었다.따라서 키노트의 내용을 단편적인 소개로 보지 않고, 내가 HCI/UX 관점에서 바라보았던 것처럼 다른 렌즈(눈)를 가진 타 분야 분들께서 좀 더 세세히 분석해 주셨으면 한다. 그렇다면 다른 연구자들이나 기업 관계자들이 차세대 연구 방향성이나 제품, 서비스 전략 수립에서 무엇이 중요한지에 대한 insight를 충분히 가질 수 있을 것이다.Ph. D. in HCI, Cognitive Science  Engineering / UX Evangelist‘HCI Think’ publication deals with the IT trends from the point of view of HCI.

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: У маркетологов есть понятие “целевая аудитория”. По аналогии, у UX-дизайнеров есть пользовательские профили или персонажи: описания пользователей, основанные на данных исследований. Поэтому сегодня мы рассмотрим тему:Это то, что описывает цели, ожидания, мотивы и поведение реальных пользователей. Почему они зашли на ваш сайт? Что они ищут? Что их нервирует? И так далее.Всю необходимую информацию вы должны получить из результатов исследований и баз данных. Если вы не можете подкрепить профиль этими данными, то вы занимаетесь фигней, и вам лучше бы это прекратить.Также вы поймете, что не стоит запускать рекламу на Facebook, потому что ваши пользователи там не сидят. И что лучше посылать Когда вы размышляете о наборе функций, вспомните несколько реальных пользователей, чьи действия и поведение на сайте вам особенно выгодны.Теперь нам нужно лишь подтолкнуть их к “идеальной” модели пользователя.Также не стоит забывать, что все пользователи разные! У вас, скорее всего, сформируется несколько различных поведенческих групп, и каждая заслуживает хорошего пользовательского профиля!Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

← (Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Иногда поведение человека можно предсказать. Иногда — нет. В этом уроке я хочу представить вашему вниманию модель, которая поможет понять, что вы способны контролировать, а что — нет. Две основные части этой модели: психология и мировоззрениеВсем нам при рождении достается более-менее одинаковый мозг. Некоторые различия могут существовать, но в целом эта деталь у всех одинаковая.Мы все способны чувствовать счастье и грусть. Нам всем хочется, чтобы нас уважали. Мы все можем научиться ездить на велосипеде, и мы все жалеем о тех лишних рюмках текилы вчера.Психология, в этом смысле, у всех нас одинаковая.Основная масса того, что мы изучим в этом курсе, будет касаться психологии. Того, что обсуждают все. Того, как предсказать действия людей и использовать это в дизайне.Но не будем забывать и об уникальности мышления каждого — это тоже очень важно.Уже после рождения, мы “отправляем” свой мозг в уникальное, непредсказуемое путешествие по жизни. Возможно, вы ученый-христианин, покоривший Эверест, или атеистичный художник с запада, подсевший на реалити-шоу.Возьмем простой пример: правосудия хотят все, но одни считают смертную казнь необходимой, а другие — неприемлемой.Или вернемся к примеру Pinterest: собирать что-то интересное нравится всем, а вот то, В этом смысле, мировоззрение у каждого свое.Да, оно может быть схожее у людей с похожими судьбами и характерами. Тем не менее, мировоззрение любого человека абсолютно уникально.Некоторые разделы сайтов основаны на Другие разделы или элементы сайтов ориентированы на индивидуальное Эта информация пригодится вам по мере того, как мы будем строить поведенческую модель в этом курсе.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Не так-то просто объяснить, что такое информационная архитектура. Хорошо, если вы можете поговорить о ней с вашей командой и с легкостью обдумать ее в голове. Итак, сегодня мы приступаем к теме:Пользовательская история — это полное, законченное описание одного из возможных путей взаимодействия между пользователем и вашим сайтом/приложением. Для того, чтобы описать весь дизайн, понадобится много пользовательских историй.Заметьте, в истории не говорится, какие конкретные дизайнерские решения применить в проектировании; лишь описаны возможные процессы. Такие истории нужны для описания “Менеджеры часто думают, что пользовательские истории нужны, чтобы сделать дизайнеру “Ладно, теперь, когда вы знаете как писать пользовательские истории, вернемся к Но позвольте разбить это все на логические кусочки (DJ сейчас нажимал бы cue):Представьте себе розничный магазин типа HM. Перед глазами сразу рисуется меню с категориями: Мужчины, Женщины, Дети, Скидки и так далее. Это самый распространенный тип информационной архитектуры. Но иногда категории получаются сложными — как в случае с банковскими продуктами, или промышленными химикатами, или секс-игрушками (это мне друзья сказали). В таких случаях, ваше представление о том, что должно находиться в данной категории, может отличаться от представления пользователя. Тогда все становится очень запутанным. Если мне нужна анальная пробка, то где ее искать? В категрии “на батарейках”? Или “светящееся в темноте”? О, жизнь полна сложных вопросов…Еще один способ структурировать ваш сайт или приложение — это положить в основу задачи, которые пользователю нужно решить. Если вы банк, то задачи могут быть примерно такие: Вклады, Займы, Инвестиции, Помощь, Открытие счета.Если пользователь знает, что ему нужно, то такая архитектура будет отлично работать. Но будьте осторожны… пользователи не всегда достаточно подкованы, чтобы самим планировать свое путешествие по вашему сайту.Если вникнуть глубже, понимаешь, что (в рамках одной и той же компании) сайт, построенный на категориях, кардинально отличается от сайта, построенного на задачах. И очень важно, какой вариант вы выберете.Если ваш сайт достаточно сложный или практически полностью состоит из контента, создаваемого самими пользователями, то, вероятно, вам стоит построить вашу архитектуру на поиске, как у YouTube. Если бы у YouTube были только категории (смешное, грустное, реклама, фильмы и др.), пользоваться сайтом было бы сложно и много усилий уходило бы на поддержание категорий в порядке.Если вы новичок в UX, сейчас ваш мозг может взорваться: вы можете спроектировать информационную архитектуру, которая изменяется во времени. Самый простой пример — ваш почтовый ящик, где сообщения отображаются по мере доставки. Это и есть дизайн, построенный на времени. В случае с веб-сайтом, это бы выглядело как страницы типа: “актуально прямо сейчас”, “в архиве”, “почитать позже”, “новинки” и т.п. Примеры такого “временнFacebook — или любая другая социальная сеть — это информационная архитектура, построенная на людях. Дизайн вращается вокруг конкретного человека и его отношений с другими людьми. А вот внутри каждого профиля Facebook использует для организации информации систему категорий (фотографии, друзья, места).Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Ах… Конец курса. Хотя, на самом деле, это начало — ведь если вы следовали всем советам и техникам, приведенным в этом курсе, то у вас уже накопилось много работы. Но прежде чем вы начнете свой путь UX-профессионала, нужно изучить еще кое-что. А точнее методику, которая поможет там понять, какой из рассматриваемых вариантов действительно “лучше”. Итак, наша тема:Кстати, A/B тесты очень любят создатели лэндингов. Читайте Представьте, что вы проектируете страницу для продажи обуви. И, естественно, вам хочется продать как можно больше обуви. Чем, по вашему мнению, можно убедить людей купить обувь?Как же сделать выбор?Если вашей первой мыслью было “спросить пользователей!”, то это неплохая идея. Но зачастую — когда опции настолько субъективны, как в нашем примере — опрос людей просто подтвердит, что о вкусах не спорят.Так как же вам, подобно боссу, сделать выбор между двумя субъективными вещами?Спроектируйте все сразу! А потому запустите все варианты одновременно, в рамках A/B теста. Возьмите на заметку, A/B тест — это способ узнать мнение тысяч, а то и миллиов реальных пользователей о том, какая версия лучше. Просто спроектируйте все варианты, которые хотите сравнить, и запустите их!В ходе теста каждый уникальный пользователь видит только одну опцию, а потом — когда достаточное количество людей пройдет тест — вы увидите, на какую из версий кликали больше. В тесте также должен быть некий статистический “уровень уверенности”, который подскажет вам, что тест закончен (чтобы вы не завершили его слишком рано!)Вы можете одновременно запускать как две версии, так и двадцать. Но помните: каждая опция будет видна только части вашего трафика. Поэтому чем больше версий вы проверяете, тем больше нужно трафика.Теперь вы гораздо более сформировались, как теоретик в области дизайна; а если вы примените полученные знания на практике, то обретете достаточно востребованные в IT-индустрии навыки.Мы уже перевели на русский язык кучу полезного контента по UX — пользуйтесь на здоровье:2. 3. Коллекция А ещё, если хотите попрактиковаться в UX или поделиться собственным опытом, то ждем вас на курсах Нас можно найти в Facebook: или вконтакте: Спасибо, что читали, комментировали, исправляли, рекомендовали, фолловили, лайкали и учились вместе с нами!До встречи!Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

As UX designers we’re often challenged to quickly mockup concepts that improve or extend functionality of an existing product or service. Sometimes making a few high-fidelity mockup images and evaluating these with the stakeholders just isn’t enough. You Now, please note that it’s beyond the scope of this text to discuss when you want one or another. So please go with me and agree that in this case When proposing changes to an existing product, how much of its existing features do you need to replicate in your prototype, to allow these changes to be testable in the context of related functionality? Now, I work at a company, Tradeshift, where one of our services is creating and sending invoices. When you create an invoice you type in all kinds of things; an invoice number, recipient information, dates, payment options, and you’ll also type in a number of lines consisting of descriptions, taxes, amounts, etc. Modifying or extending the invoice creation page to, say, allow you to create the invoice lines by selecting products from an inventory list, calls for a rich prototype. Especially if you want to do usability testing before implementing. Just having to replicate the existing markup and styling in a new environment would be quite a job. So it’ll be a long day at the office, since your test and research people probably want this tomorrow.Say hello to browser extensions! An easy and affordable way to use the actual product you’re designing for as a canvas for your experiments. Imagine a super-powered DOM editor with the ability to persist your modifications after reloads and across pages. And, when done, you can easily share whatever you did with your colleagues…Now, I’ve only been messing around with If you’ve decided to become a UX designer chances are that you know a bit about these front-end technologies, but you’re not a super-awesome front-end developer. This shouldn’t stop you – in the case of Chrome Extensions, Google has done a really good job flattening the learning curve. Bonus: Since you can inject JavaScript, you can also inject jQuery, which (double bonus) can interact with the existing elements on the page you’re hacking. This means you can leverage the nice usability of jQuery to juggle the DOM elements to your needs. The What this means is you can create your prototype in the product you already have. Mutate it, break it, make it shine, wrap up your modifications in a Chrome Extension (it’s a zip file) and give it to the people who should experience the product with the latest ideas or suggestions for changes.Triple bonus: You don’t have to just hack your own product, since all this happens client-side, the power is in the hands of the user – or at least the user’s browser. So if you want to see how users and others react to using your competitors product with purple background and fresher input labels – nothing should hold you back. It’ll probably be way faster than making a Photoshop comp when you get the hang of it.Install the Google Chrome Read the Now write some styles that improve the looks of your product or website, add a new menu item that when you click it does something you’d always wanted.I believe browser extensions are not just for releasing in the browser app stores. They can do so much more, and I also believe that some designers will feel liberated and way more productive once they embrace this approach. A few weeks after discovering this I’m still wondering why I didn’t think about this before.Hi. I’m Head of Design at Tradeshift (global b2b collaboration network SaaS). I’m designer and engineer, living my hobby ☺ and tweeting at 

先日、500Familyのミートアップにて、EvernoteのUXデザイナーである@JOSHUANTAYLORから直接お話を聞く機会がありましたので、その概要を共有したいと思います。ちなみに、Joshは、UXを考える上では、まずはどんな体験をユーザーに届けるのかを考えることが重要です。ユーザーに届ける体験は、Functional/Emotional/Aspirationalの3つのレベルに分けられるとのこです。Functionalなレベルを求めるユーザーは、サービスに対して機能的であることを求めています。例えば、ボタンを押した時にどう動作するのか、どんなガジェットが使えるのか、検索結果をソートできるのかといった、機能を求めています。MicroSoftやAppleがOSを出した頃のユーザーは、コンピュータを選ぶときに、ユーザーはそのコンピュータは何ができるのかによって決めていました。どんな容量があるのか、メモリはどのくらいなのか。90年代になりMicrosoftは、ソフトウェアにおいて、このFunctionalレベルのものをすべて整えていきました。Functionalであることが価値となったのです。プロダクトにおいて、Functionalレベルが整った後に、ユーザの求めるもの（=ユーザに提供する価値として）としてEmotionalレベルを考えます。Emotionalレベルでは、プロダクトがユーザーに対して、どうのような感情を引き起こすのかを定義していきます。システムの動作スピードや、トランジションの仕方、使い心地が良いといったことです。Aspirationalなレベルは、人々の作りたいものや、ブランドといったものについてのユーザの要求です。人々が心から欲しがるものです。いま、エヴァーノートでは、このAspirationalレベルのUXに取り組んでいます。Aspirationalなプロダクトの代表例は、iPhoneです。人々は、発売後にiPhoneを熱狂的に求めました。UXといっても、さまざまな意味があります。ユーザーが、プロダクトのインターフェースに触れるポイントがすべてUXの対象範囲となります。インターフェースが作られる裏側には、ユーザーリサーチやInformation Architectureといったものもあり、それらなしにはインターフェース、UXは作られることはありません。つまり、UXを考えるときにはそれらを含めた全体としての、つまり”Macro”のUXを考える必要があります。Macro UXは次のように分類することができます。ユーザーが何を求めているかを知る段階です。ABテストを行ってはいけません。ユーザーが必要なものを探していきます。どのようにコンテンツを構成するかを決める段階です。パーツの構成やページの遷移など、全体の流れを決めていきます。プロダクトに対して、コピーを決めていきます。どのOSなのか、どのプラットフォームなのか、それらにどんなコピーが合うのかを考えていく必要があります。Evernoteでは、今年はじめてコピーライターを雇いました。それぞれのUIがどんなユーザーの反応をもたらすのかを考えて決めていきます。アニメーションを付けることによって、人々が楽しんでアプリを操作させることができます。また、アニメーションは、アプリがどう動作するのかの理解を助けることもできます。一つ一つのインタラクションには、すべてユーザーの反応が伴います。それらがUXを変えていきます。インタラクションによってユーザーがどんな反応をするかを考えて決めていきます。スピードには、システムが反応するスピードと、ユーザーが知覚するスピードの2つがあります。この２つを意識して決めていきます。システム開発者と十分にコミュニケーションをとって進める必要があります。Evernoteでは、これらの工程に対して、usertesting.comを使ってフィードバックを得て、反映していきます。Usertesting.comは素晴らしいツールですが、コメントをくれたユーザーがどんな意図でコメントしてくれているかまで汲んで、考慮しなければなりません。最後に、最近ローンチされたEvernoteの新しいWebアプリケーションを紹介してくれました。入力を始めると、フェードアウトのアニメーションとともに、サイドバーが消え、入力部分しか見えなくなります。これはユーザーが入力に集中できるようにした結果だったということでした。またフォントを選択した時に始めて、フォントメニューが現れます。これはフォントを変えるときに、ユーザーがフォントを選択するという習慣を利用して、そのときにだけメニューを表示させることによって余分な動線を排除しています。「iOSのUXに非常に近づいた」と本人も言うこの新しいWebアプリケーションには、この他にも素晴らしいUXが含まれています。上記でご紹介したようなMacroなUXについて多くの学びを得ることができますので、ぜひ使ってみてください。ちなみに、僕自身もこうした優れたUXのアプリを見ると、UXの実装のリバースエンジニアリングのようなことをして、どのような意図で何をしているのかをいつも考えています。これは、UXエンジニアとして非常に成長に貢献する良い習慣なので、ぜひ試してみてください！このサンフランシスコと東京でエンジニアをしています

When you really think about, the element that is key to all technology is whether it empowers the user to do something more efficiently, more creatively, more expressively, and just plain better. Imagine a history running from Gutenberg’s printing press to Job’s Macintosh and you can imagine a stream of innovation that has empowered humankind with tools that extend their hands and minds. We all know a good app when we try one that makes our lives better in some way and preferably empowers us to “be a better me”. This is in large part what we’re talking about on our home page with “helping people be smarter, live well, and have fun”. Don’t forget, having fun can be hard work, especially if you have kids of varying ages. Another function that I like is removing unnecessary routine from people’s lives which is well expressed in a recent Atlantic Magazine But what is the place of the user experience designer in this picture? I mean, aren’t inventors, programmers, engineers and other technologists mainly responsible for empowering people? Admittedly, in some cases it may be true. For example, the invention of a shoe string solution that solves a lead users problem, but what about that killer app for the rest of us. That is what Apple is known for doing so well that it’s cliche for even mentioning it. The Cupertino guys bundle functionality with the right interface that people gain real utility from the iPhone, iMac and Apple TV. They KNOW user experience is key to empowering people. It’s not just about looking good but about anticipating the needs, motivations and engagement of users before even bringing technology into the world.Another more recent example is the soon to be released bluetooth device and iOS app called Tile is great because it solves the problem of forgetfulness and empowers people by helping them avoid losing a kid or two. But what about something as simple as choosing a wine? Our agency iiD was excited to help Gallo Family Vineyards solve the problem of how to help unsavvy wine drinkers (myself included) choose the right wine. This might be easy for the sommeliers in the room but for the rest of us, we simply lack the experience and know-how to pick that perfect wine for that perfect evening. We began our process by researching the possible user scenarios in choosing wines. By considering a variety of “wine moments” we came up with highly useful tools for transitioning wine drinkers to choose wines by type, taste, food, recipe, and occasion. We created an interface that had an app-like appeal, encouraging users to try a variety of different filters to decide on the right wine. Not to mention people can have an engaging experience with the brand. Feel free to The Gallo wine tools empowered people to make the right decision on what wine to drink, without having to get sommelier certified. Not life saving but certainly a nice thing to have in the world for those of us who like drinking. So ask yourself, what other user experiences have changed the ways you do things for the better? And just as important what situations in life are lacking the right user experience to help you get over hurdles. The more you look at it this way, user experience design is everywhere around us from the way bus stop signs are situated to the checkout counter at Safeway. UX designers can hold their heads up high. And with empowerment as one of our main goals for our design, we can really make a difference.by we create awesome user experiences that help people be smart, live well, and have fun. articles are written by iiD strategist lance shields.  — 

User experience (UX) is not a deliverable like user flows or wireframes. UX is not a checklist of best practices. At its core, UX is a deeply humanist philosophy that puts people ahead of faceless organizations. There cannot be “good” UX behind products that don’t offer some deeply human value to the individuals that will use them.But conversely, an app or website that solves a real-world, human problem will always have value even if it breaks standard UX precedents. Case in point, consider Uber.When looking at the digital presence of Uber, the brand hardly nails all of its UX details. For example on the Uber website menu, the language selector is inaccessible becuase it’s coverd by oversized CTA thumbnails prompting the user to download the Uber app on either iTunes or Google Play. This is hardly ideal UX.But I would argue that Uber is still one of the pre-eminent practitioners of UX. The essence of Uber as an app and as a business is about recognizing and responding to pain points in the traditional customer experience of using cabs.The first challenge with the old model is getting a taxi in the first place. In many cities (aka places that are not New York), the streets aren’t exactly teeming with cabs waiting to be hailed. This means you must call a cab company, talk to a dispatcher and then wait an indeterminate time for them to send you your cab. All of this is a gigantic waste of time, and if you’re in an unfamiliar city you’re unlikely to have the phone number of the nearest taxi company. So enter Uber, which lets you hail a car and set your location via a mobile app with no awkward phone calls to disinterested dispatchers.A second pain point of the traditional taxi experience is paying for your cab. Many cabbies are reluctant to accept credit cards. And even when they do, they seldom have their card terminals actually activated. So instead they take a rubbing of your card and write down your credit card numbers. Now I don’t know about you, but I am generally opposed to giving strangers a copy of my credit card to bill at later date at their convenience. Uber streamlines payment for the rider by requiring users to have a credit card on file with them, which will be charged for each ride. That means no having to carry cash and no payment snafus. It also ensures that drivers don’t have to worry about passengers trying to dip out and avoid paying for their ride.A third issue with the traditional cab model is the drivers themselves. Now I personally have never had any major issues with a cab driver, and I would assume that the majority of them are like any other professional group — decent human beings who are reasonably competent at their job. However, when you hail a cab you have no idea what sort of person you’re going to be getting. Will they be a good and safe driver? Will they be honest and take you the most direct route to your destination? Under the traditional taxi model, you just don’t know. But enter Uber, and you know you’re getting a good driver. After every Uber ride is complete, Uber prompts the user to rate the driver on a scale of 1-5 stars. Uber only retains those drivers who average above a 4-star rating.The components of Uber are not earth shattering. It’s essentially a combination of location-based mapping, online payments and online reviews. But the brand found a way to apply these existing solutions to pain points in the customer experience of cabbing that had been in place for so long that they were taken as givens. And in doing so, Uber has disrupted an entire industry that hasn’t evolved in decades, building a strong position in the market as a result.As agencies and brands increasingly adopt UX as a discipline, the challenge is not to get wrapped up in deliverables and details. Wireframes, user flows and best practice checklists are pointless deliverables and mere buzzword fodder if we don’t use them to deliver an experience that offers actual value to the end user.Im passionate about writing and all things digital and social. I create, critique and curate culture. Curiosity and creativity drive me. Opinions are my own.

I do about 90% front end development. I’ve done some php development and am loving node.js and JavaScript MV* frameworks such as AngularJS. They give me the opportunity to build applications instead of just websites and remain in JavaScript, a language I am oh so familiar with. I favour programming logic over design. Despite my interest in programming, my experience coding up the front end of a website always gives me the most work. So I would like to make a very bold statement when it comes to the relationship of the Front End Developer to the UX team. The Front End Developer should be married to the UX Team.My previous statement doesn’t mean that a Front End Dev has to actually design the site. However, he needs to be reviewing each wireframe as it is created. Why? Because he is the one that will be making the potential beast. Before the designer opens up Photoshop, the wireframes should be approved by the powers that be and the Front End Dev should say “this is no problem”, “this is possible, but at a cost”, or “please god, don’t’ even think about going this route”. I can think of no better example than when building anything that is responsive.Responsive sites provide all kinds of front end challenges. Content needs to flow properly with the document flow. You want to create an optimized view for each screen size but not at the cost of loading additional content and increasing the page size. Despite all the new grid systems and UI frameworks such as bootstrap and foundation that are supposed to make throwing up a responsive site a breeze, if you do not design for one of these frameworks, in the end you are going to be hacking up existing code. Why not roll your own system? Or even better, why not decide on what everyone will be doing together from the initial site conception? Simply put, work together from the beginning.I work in an incredibly fast paced environment. I do not know the reasons why everything needs to be done last week. I suspect it’s simply because business is competitive. I’ve heard in an acting audition if you are asked if you can juggle and speak Zulu you say “absolutely I used to work for a traveling circus in South Africa”. I guess folks in the technology industry do the same. From my experience, I do know the main reason why projects are buggy and the client is left unhappy is because communication is poor. “Wow I just listened to him complain and that’s all he has to tell me is ‘communicate better’ ”. Yep!UX teams working together with or as the Front End Development can come up with functionality that makes sense and is achievable technically. The smallest change in the UX can change the complexity of a site. However, if there is something that is challenging from a technical perspective, the reason for doing it a particular way can be noted from the very beginning and a plan can be made to sort it out. If you are not in communication the developer is left with a round peg, a square hole and instructions to make it fit. Going back and changing the UX of a site never happens because something turns out to be technically challenging. So if you are a Front End Dev, put yourself in a position to liaison with your UX team. Get in there from the beginning. Speak up for yourself. Not just to make life easier for yourself but so the end result is something that everyone is happy with and no one has to pull their hair out all the way through, only to repeat the same process with the next project.Freelance Software Developer

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Работая в сфере UX — а особенно, начиная новый проект — мы часто оказываемся в ситуации, когда приходится опрашивать реальных людей. Поэтому сегодня мы узнаем:Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

At Yammer, we put a lot of time and care into our hiring process. Everything from our A typical hiring process looks something like this:Your post a generic job description, get some candidates, and then have to figure out if they match up.At Yammer, we decided to work backwards:We started by asking ourselves “Who is the right person?” and tailored our entire hiring process off of that. This allows us to focus much more on skills, and not just titles.To start, we got our design team in the room, and did a brainstorming exercise to find out what qualities would make a successful designer. Things like: had they shipped their designs, could they articulate and defend their design decisions, did they value analytics? All things that we really care about and would want in a potential hire.After that, we used what we came up with like a script to generate specific interviews and design exercises to look for those things. Because, let’s face it, generic interview questions suck. I’m talking the “What do you think is your greatest weakness?” kind. Most of these are only determining if the candidate is good at interviewing or not. We used the skills our team outlined to craft deliberate questions. We also give individual team members specific skills to focus on and ask questions about. This prevents unnecessary overlap throughout the day of interviews.Our final step was to write the job description. On most job boards, if you’ve seen one designer job post, you’ve seen them all. I strongly suspect that most UX job descriptions are derived from an original set of five requirements that have just been copy-and-pasted since the beginning of time. We try to be more deliberate than that. We asked ourselves, “If I was this type of designer, what would I be looking for?”It’s important to think through your hiring process from start to finish. You want each step to make you more certain that a candidate is the right person for the job. It’s as much a user experience problem as anything else.We’re hiring designers, product managers, and researchers. Are you one of those things? Drop us a line at Stories from the people who make Yammer happen

This is the second post in the series of posts on UI / UX comparison of the three major hotel booking portals. You can read the The previous post dealt with the first page that the users interact while booking hotel rooms. Now, what happens after the user clicks on “search hotels”? Let’s see.Cleartrip has done an excellent job here. Once the user clicks on “search hotels” button, this happens:This is a brilliant design because it never makes the user feel that he is waiting. There is information being shown at every point in the step. This is cleverly done by loading the images (which are heavy in size compared to text) at the end of the process. After all, images are not the most important thing anyway here.Also, the map view is presented in a nice manner on the right side.Cleartrip also does a fantastic job of opening the individual listing details in a popup and not on a different page like in the other two sites. More on this will be discussed in the next post in this series.Few things which could be improved:Clicking on “select room” opens up a panel with more details. However if the user clicks on this button on the last result in the page, it does open up but its not visible unless the user scrolls. This can be solved by automatically scrolling the page to the desired position after the user clicks on “select room” on the last result that’s visible to him.One of the filters on the left side is “Tripadvisor ratings.” It currently looks like this:Natural affordance is that if you drag a slider to the right, something should increase and something should fill up. Here the inverse use of green and grey colors in the slider creates the confusion.Star ratings is a big confusion for first time users. Why? What do you think if you see the yellow stars (circled in red) on a search results page for all the results:Since we see these kind of star ratings in most sites (like Redbus for bus ratings), we assume these are user ratings given for these hotels. But these are just an indication what-star hotels they are. i.e. 5 stars indicates it’s a 5 star hotel; 1 star indicates it’s a 1 star hotel. That’s all and it has nothing to do with the user ratings and hence you can’t decide if the hotel is good/bad based on these. Those are shown by tripadvisor ratings on the right (highlighted in blue). So essentially there are two ratings which are completely different from each other. This problem is seen in makemytrip and Yatra as well.I also never understood the intention behind mentioning “Booked time ago”. It is seen in the other two sites as well. Probably it’s to tell the user that the rooms are getting booked and the hotel may run out of rooms; so book your room asap?Here is how it happens in Makemytrip after clicking on search:The results page looks like this:Lot of clutter when compared to Cleartrip; Two things that block the view from showing more results — “please tell us your preferred hotel category” section and “my trip rewards” section both of which are an additional load on the user’s brain. The user is here to just see hotels. These two sections can be removed completely. The former is just a filters option which is anyway present on the left and the latter — something to make users login to save points which 80% users don’t care. So it can probably come at a later stage.Makemytrip’s design (and also Yatra’s) treats each search result as an individual entity by separating them with border and box-shadow. Whereas Cleartrip does a nice job with Typography and proper white spacing to simply differentiate the results and not treating each result as one group.And here is what happens in Yatra:After clicking on “Find hotels”, a popup comes saying something about “QuickBook” and asking me to register. Not only I, as a user, don’t know what Quickbook is but also I don’t give a shit. Just show me the search results, damnit! And after this, there are about 4 different loading indicators before the results come up. No idea what and why.Coming to the listings page design, it looks very very noisy. There are too many problems here.2. Chat with friends — Seriously? Here? with whom?? why?3. Redundancy: The search information (place and dates) are shown twice -4. There is only one result that is completely seen above the fold. (and half of second result) This shows that the page is poorly designed.5. There is no proper feedback given when the user shortlists a hotel.6. There is an option to close a search result. Why?! It’s not a file on my computer!7. The filters in Yatra are not as good as those in the other two sites. there are many more issues with the page layout and design.Overall, Cleartrip has done a much better job than Makemytrip and Yatra needs to invest more on UI/UX design here.This is the second post in the series of posts on UI / UX comparison of the three major hotel booking portals. You can read the Sr. UI / UX Designer at Housing.com. I do a bunch of interesting things in design/web/startups. More on raviteja.in.Reviews, journeys and analysis about using Indian websites, apps and services. Also thoughts and writings by Indian UXers/Design Thinkers.

My inbox gets requests from agencies and recruiters almost daily, and I have gotten pretty good at filtering through these requests. If a request looks un-spammy, I’ll courteously respond — even if the request for “UX work” that isn’t really UX work.Just as often though. I also get requests for UX work that is “UX work” in a broad sense, but does not fit into my realm of My goal with this article is twofold: 1) To explain what UX Strategy is, and where it fits with its sibling disciplines, within a project-type. And 2) To help you understand identify what is the best UX role fit for your project.First, Keep in mind that it’s an evolving job role that encompasses a multidisciplinary skill-set.If you think that I just made the waters muddier, hang tight. In fact, quite the opposite is true.So why isn’t educating non-UX people—particularly those staffing UX roles—a priority? I really don’t have a good answer, except to say that we are in a period of rapid change. However I can provide some definition and differentiation for you.One FYI: If you aren’t curious or don’t care about UX theory, feel free to skip the next section. The rest of us UX nerds are going to hang back a second…Ok nerds. Let’s review…In chapter two of Rex Hartson and Pardha Pyla’s essential (and criminally underutilized) tome “Since there are only four Interaction/Work Domain combination choices, the visual representation is four quadrants that reflect the system types being developed…in theory.In reality, what you have are three quadrants to describe a variety of projects that overlap at times, followed by a fourth option, which for most projects is a false fit. More on that shortly.Below is the diagram mapping out the basic concept:Okay, everybody back? Lets get started…While reading about Process Choice, it occurred to me that if the quadrants in the exercise can help UX specialists, then it might also be useful to non-UX people to understand their UX role needs.In order to help the non-UX people, I repurposed the quadrants to reflect real-world project types, and the corresponding roles that might be needed. Below is a breakdown of the combos.Below I have added some visualizations of the concepts discussed in the previous section to help get you up to speed. If you have gotten this far, know that everything above is a lot to absorb in one sitting.The first one below is the interaction and work-domain graph from earlier, but with project example types and the CI/SWD process combo crossed out.The second graphic is a vertical chart summarizing the combinations reviewed, along with UX role needs, task types, and example projects.The awareness of UX as an important tool in the project lifecycle is increasing within organizations, but understanding the types of UX roles, and where to insert them, is still something that recruiters are in the process of refining.Thoughts on this article? I welcome any comments, criticisms or angry volleys. Reach out to me at Be well.Downloads For Reference:Sources:Hartson, H. Rex, and Pardha S. Pyla. “Chapter 2, Section 2.3: “Choosing a Process Instance for Your Project”” “Modified Work Domain/Interaction Graph”, “Modified Work Domain/Interaction Graphic, Marked”, “Work Domain/Interaction Summary” Graphics by author. 2014. By Jacob Harris. From source Dissemination and alteration of all original graphics is encouraged under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License: 

It would seem like a win as an app maker to have a large number of downloads — and to some extent it is — but that sense of victory and accomplishment slowly diminishes once you realize the downloads are not being converted into active users.That initial excitement disappears when you realize there is not much value to an app lying dormant.The good news is this is avoidable. There are multiple approaches to creating an app that appeals to users and keeps them coming back, but it is necessary to determine what it is specifically that makes an app stand out in such a competitive market.Surely solid development plays a role, but finding a well-developed app is not exactly difficult.So, what is it then?If you test out enough top apps, you will begin to decipher a pattern among them: fantastic user experience (UX) design. The best apps go beyond basic appeal and transport users into a preternatural state of clairvoyance. A state where each tap is intuitive and never requires a second guess.There are a lot of factors that go into excellent mobile UX design and an equal amount of ways it could go wrong.We will take a look at some of these factors and help you avoid all of the common errant UX pitfalls, most notably failure to retain users and obtain conversions, so you– and more importantly, your users — can get the most out of your app and maintain engagement.You know your app — inside and out. You conceived of it, designed it, developed it, launched it, and marketed it. You innately understand its purpose and precisely how to operate it… but that is just you.What happens when others attempt to use your app and it is not as obvious?One of the easiest — and most damaging — mistakes an app creator can make is not having others, be they family, friends, or a test group, test your app first. They have a resource you can never have again — new eyes.Have them share their thoughts throughout the initial interaction to get an idea of what works and what they are thinking. This is a valuable lesson in learning how to optimize for your users rather than yourself.When you are ready to test your app, take into account three key elements: network environment, device targets, and testing types (functional, performance, security, and compliance.) For more information on app testing, you can learn It is best to begin at the You cannot just assume that a user knows how your app works and therefore must provide some guidelines and tutorials for the introductory session. The onboarding process is important for retaining your users, and if it does not work well it is likely users will quit your app and not return to it.Inline hinting is traditionally used for someone new to an app. Whenever a user reaches a new point of exploration, some text appears inline explaining what is happening or what action needs to take place in order to advance. It is discreet enough to not interrupt the session, but prominent enough to help out when necessary.Also popular are tutorials in which a screen overlay appears over the app, guiding you either throughout each step or with a quick account of what takes place at each juncture.It may seem obvious to some, but not everyone realizes that the mobile experience is going to differ vastly from the web. Users interact with mobile devices in a completely different way and designers need to take this into account when creating an app.Clearly UI contributes to great UX. Some of the UI constraints that affect an app should be taken into consideration when designing for an app.One important factor is screen size. There is a lot less real estate to work with and without a mouse to navigate and an abundance of screen space, a user is required to interact using their fingers. Successful apps almost always utilize a minimal UI design, meaning only what is necessary for usage should appear and clutter on the screen should be avoided at all costs.Consider how icons are used to represent buttons, how a virtual keyboard should show up on-screen whenever it is needed, and how help and error messages should appear.User behavior is another consideration. When designing your app UX, take into account that unique gestures — pinches, swipes and taps — are required on mobile devices and that a percentage of your desktop users may not be familiar with them.If something is typically clickable on a desktop website, be aware that it might be expected that a similarly designed app will yield similar expectations.The last place you would want any difficulty with your app is at the checkout point. If a customer or user is prepared to make a purchase — whether it is an item of clothing or bonus points to advance in a game — it is imperative the experience is uncomplicated and unflawed.Having too many steps until the purchase point is one potential problem, as are unclear navigation and flow, and call-to-action buttons that are not prominent enough.For a smooth process, offer multiple payment options, such as the ability to connect to a PayPal account, and be sure to avoid any technical problems at this most critical step to prevent a user from leaving your app without paying.Everything mentioned until now essentially leads to this point, which cannot only help you locate the problem but also solve it.Analytics solutions, such as Visual tools grant you the ability to see your app through users’ eyes, understand the reasoning behind the actions they take, and identify which UX issues are leading to your app’s abandonment.Visual mobile analytics tools give you the ability to play back video from actual app user sessions and touch heatmaps help you identify problem areas — perhaps users are getting stuck on a particular screen, or your app is taking too long to load — and correct them without all the guesswork.This can help you you can pinpoint problem areas with your app — perhaps users are getting stuck on a particular screen, or your app is taking too long to load — and correct them without all the guesswork.Delivering a great mobile UX design should be your goal if you want your app to stand out. Avoiding all of these common mistakes and implementing the tips listed above gives you a reliable way to determine the sort of difficulties your app may face and what it will take to optimize its UX design to keep your users coming back.Appsee is a simple and powerful visual mobile analytics platform that enables you to measure, understand and improve the user experience in your mobile apps.

This week I’ve been brushing up on my UX design and usability testing.In my studies I found a few awesome free and paid tools that I thought you may enjoy, so here I am, writing a list of tools at 6:30 in the morning:🔥Yes. You should follow me.🔥

What’s hot in UX this weekIt’s right there, like a glittering lure in a dark sea. An email from Apple. They want to feature your app when it launches in the App Store. This is it. Fortune will follow fame. You’re set.No, you’re not.A funny thing has happened on the way to the iPhone going mainstream: the App Store has gotten really, really big. You often hear about the app discovery issues now with over a million apps in the store. What you don’t often hear about is the flipside: when Apple does bestow a coveted featured spot upon your app, you get to rise above the noise, but the end result of that is a lot of noisy would-be users.via A UXB member recently asked…”How do you make links in Sketch?” The simple answer is you can’t. Due to the popularity of Photoshop and Sketch — which are dedicated UI design tools — prototyping tools like Axure get overlooked.There’s a shift under way in large organizations, one that puts design much closer to the center of the enterprise. But the shift isn’t about aesthetics. It’s about applying the principles of design to the way people work.As many of us move away from designing pages toward designing systems, one concept keeps cropping up: modularity. We often hear about the benefits of a modular approach; modules are scalable, replaceable, reusable, easy to test, quick to put together.The risk of any organization growing fast is that it grows incorrectly. This can mean failing to welcome and culturally assimilate new hires, which can degrade company culture. It can also mean hiring the wrong balance of people. In nature, good growth is called adolescence; bad growth is called cancer.A design sprint can encompass a specific aspect of a product. It’s a highly collaborative and budget friendly way to spike on an idea. Design discovery is a holistic approach to goals and strategy for a product.As a product designer you constantly have to make decisions about the product. Those decisions can be based on data, feedback or on the designers own experiences. The interpretation of feedback, data and experiences should be objective but often it is colored by the designers own believes and thoughts.In mid-January 2015, Weave reached out to a number of librarians who are doing user experience work with the hope of instigating and documenting the conversation they might have with one another.via Brought to you by your friends at Share the love ♥Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Working in the UX field is exciting. There’s a constantly growing and evolving body of knowledge, an ever-increasing amount of tools and methods at our disposal and people with various backgrounds to share and discuss insights with.Yet, something often seems to be missing in this dynamic UX world of rock stars, ninjas and thought leaders. While we hear and read a lot about knowledge exchange in the UX community, tweets, blog posts and presentations that remind us to pause and reflect are relatively sparse.We need to keep up with new trends and approaches to UX design, clients require us being agile and lean. We hear catchphrases like “debating ideas is waste” and we learn that UX design is about making. On Twitter, we need (and want) to make our opinion heard, when reading blog posts, we are almost immediately confronted with the opinion of others in the comments sections.Pausing and reflecting seems to become more difficult nowadays. This is the case within the UX community as well as within UX designer — client relationships. “I don’t know, I have no opinion and I need to think this through” often doesn’t seem to be a valid answer. In the community, there are a lot of others who can immediately come up with an opinion. In a client project, time is money, so you quickly “build and learn”.I wonder whether this has something to do with feeling inadequate or the fear of appearing incompetent. Pausing and reflecting does not immediately deliver tangible results and in addition, it takes time. But this does not render it useless or inferior per se. Pausing and reflecting on your work — and on yourself as UX designer — from time to time can go a long way, actually. It improves your work and it also helps in improving yourself.This does not mean that pausing and reflecting is always the best way of handling things. But neither is quickly jumping to action or generating an opinion on the spot. Ideally, stating “I need to reflect for some time” should not be a courageous act. It should be a valid option for a UX designer. Not more or less valid than other alternatives we have in our portfolios. In the end, as always in UX design, it depends. Not least, it depends on our self-confidence and on our ideas regarding the goals we want to achieve and the kind of UX designers we want to be.Usability Engineer. Trained psychologist. Follow me on Twitter: 

Jeez, I didn’t know ux-app, it’s beautiful.A Brazilian digital nomad, that likes to cook, code, sales, and help startups.

Hi, my name is Adam and I’m a User Experience Designer. My job is to help people create products which other people love. It’s not that easy to introduce this thinking to a company, even if it sounds obvious. I’ll tell you how I try.A lot of folks identify User Experience with “wireframes”: those black-and-white drawings.User Experience is not that.But first and foremost, That’s right, in most of the cases, it’s not your head. This is espeically true if you are a business owner, designer or developer of a technology product.Still, what happens a lot of times, that someone tries to come up with a set of ideas, intended to make the user happy (usually we try to make users happy. Or ourselves happy.)I know what you’re thinking. You might be in one of the following two groups:None of you are necessarily correct: the user is not you. It’s someone else. It’s everyone else, it’s anyone else.The fact is, if you’re involved in a product, you know too much about it. You invest too much emotions into it. It’s your child after all. Or at least, partly your child. You want it to succeed. You want it to contain your funny ideas.User experience starts with watching others. Watching other people going through their days, fighting with their problems or just living their life.But most importantly, watching them while they use your product.Of course, it’s hard to find out what are the You have to ask them to act like you weren’t there and it wasn’t your product. It isn’t about saying nice things to you. ItThis is where User Experience Design starts.UX Designer, Researcher, Software Engineer

Berikut adalah materi presentasi “Berikut slide yang saya ambil dari Mas Mari kita mengenal apa itu Pengalaman apa?. pengalaman menggunakan suatu produk atau jasa. Mulai dari mereka Mari kita simak beberapa contoh produk UX yang ada di sekitar kita ☺Memberikan Kursi sebelah kanan, untuk orang orang yang mengalami keterbatasan fisik, terutama di bagian kaki. yang akan dengan mudah menggerakkan kursi yang mereka duduki dengan memutar roda besar di samping kursi dengan tangan.Sekali lagi… Memberikan Saat datang ke kelurahan (jaman dulu) untuk mengurus KTP, saya langsung mendapati ruangan ruangan yang dipenuhi dengan para pegawai kelurahan.Mari kita simak cerita saya ketika ke Bank, Begitu memasuki Bank saya langsung disapa oleh Satpam rupawan nan kekar yang sangat ramah dengan senyum merekah. dan bertanya dengan sifat kebapakannya. “Sekali lagi… Memberikan Mari kita beralih ke sebuah website. andaikata anda dihadapkan pada suatu tahap pendaftaran. anda akan merasa nyaman menggunakan yang mana?. sebelah kanan atau kiri? ☺Saya akan meninggalkan anda dengan pemahaman anda sendiri… ☺Selalu ingat… Memberikan Kenapa UX itu penting?. Let’s See ☺Kepuasan datang dari sebuah pengalaman. Begitu kata Lalu kenapa kalau mereka mencintai produk/jasa kita?…..Pengguna yang puas tentu akan emh…. sepertinya tidak perlu saya ceritakan, karena ilustrasi diatas sudah sangat jelas. ☺Memberikan sebuah pengalaman yang menyenangkan ke pengguna produk/jasa anda, tentu akan bagus untuk bisnis anda ☺ , dan tentu kita semua tahu bukan, kemana muaranya?… ;)Mari kita beralih ke tahap tahap perancangan UX ☺ Semoga anda belum bosan sampai di tahap ini…. :DAda 5 Tahapan mendesign sebuah UX… yang pertama adalah…emh.. karena saya takut anda bosan mendengarkan penjelasan saya, mari kita langsung loncat ke slide selanjutnya… :DCase Study!!!! :DAkhir tahun lalu, saya diminta mas mari kita lihat bagaimana implementasi 5 tahapan mendesign sebuah UX untuk aplikasi ini.yang yang Begini, terkadang seorang designer memiliki imajinasi yang liar. saat mendesign sebuah aplikasi kadang2 karena saking liarnya malah menambah fitur ini dan itu.dengan adanya Ruang Lingkup yang jelas maka membatasi juga designer untuk tidak melenceng jauh dari Strategi awal.Waktu dan Biaya merupakan dua hal yang penting. dengan pertimbangan waktu dan biaya yang ada, tentu membuat kita untuk memilih metode dan tools yang tepat untuk men-develop aplikasi ini secara cepat dan sesuai biaya yang tersedia.Ini hanyalah contoh simple Ruang Lingkup dari aplikasi ini. beda aplikasi/produk tentu akan berbeda ruang lingkupnya ☺yang Gambar diatas adalah Structure lama dari aplikasi ini. Ketika User membuka aplikasi, maka aplikasi akan menampilkan jadwal sholat dan ketika user ingin mengetahui arah kiblat, user harus memencet menu arah kiblat. dan aplikasi akan menampilkan kompas arah kiblatDi Slide berikutnya akan saya tunjukkan Structure yang baru dari aplikasi ini.Structure yang baru dari aplikasi ini akan sangat ringkas. semuanya terangkum dalam satu proses. kembali ke strategy awal… “yang Pamer Time!!!! :Dyang Design aplikasi ini menjadi lebih simple, sesuai dengan Strategi awal tadi. “Berikut beberapa tips dalam perancangan design UX. Cekibrot…. ;)Kata om Peep Laja… kita gak boleh nakal… *haiah :D*Begini maksudnya om satu ini. kita ambil contohnya website ya.. di dalam sebuah website itu pasti terdapat buanyak elemen… entah itu banner, produk, tombol dll.Buatlah design yang menggiring mata pengunjung. buatlah mata pengunjung melihat website anda sesuai dengan apa yang anda inginkan. jika prioritas anda adalah agar pengunjung mendaftar di website anda, maka tempatkanlah tombol pendaftaran yang gede di homepage.emh… bingung ya?… kita pake contoh aja lah ya.. :DHayo…. gimana kalau kalian nerima undangan kayak gini?. mau dibaca dari mana? bingung kan?.gimana kalau kayak gini?.. lumayan lah ya.. tapi masih bingung juga -_-”Nah… ini lumayan Enak…Ditambahin Bold, makin enak :DMakin tambah enak liatnya…. :DHore!!!! enak!!!Buatlah pengunjung nyaman dan jelas untuk melihat website anda.dalam hal undangan ini, orang yang melihat undangan ini akan melihat ke arah judul. karena itu yang paling mencolok, kemudian ke bawahnya lagi dan terus ke bawah. urutan yang jelas akan membuat nyaman orang yang membaca dan sangat membantu untuk tersampaikannya pesan.Begitu juga dalam men-design sebuah website. Kejelasan Hirarki adalah hal yang penting. tempatkanlah tujuan utama anda ditempat yang menarik perhatian pengunjung dan nyaman untuk dilihat pengunjung.Contohnya adalah website KartuNama.net. Tujuan utama si pembuat tentu adalah agar para pengunjung membuat kartu nama disini. maka dari itu designnya pun menggiring pengunjung untuk membuat kartu nama.Lihat kolom atas. langsung ada tulisan yang jadi Point Of Interest. “Aseeeekkkk!!!. sesuatu yang indah belum tentu berfungsi dengan baik.Saat ini kita banyak menjumpai efek efek keren yang digunakan di website. Paralax, Slider, dan efek lainnya.Indah memang, cantik. tapi apakah membantu kita mencapai tujuan awal kita?. mari kita simak cerita dibawah ini…Suatu ketika saya diminta oleh sebuah bimbingan belajar untuk men-design website mereka. mereka ingin menampilkan 7 paket utama mereka dengan cara simple, elegan dan tidak memakan banyak tempat.mereka meminta menggunakan slider. seperti gambar diatas.Lalu saya memberi argumen ke mereka “Begini Pak… Slider memang bagus, tapi dengan menggunakan slider, anda hanya akan menampilkan 3 paket anda. dan pengunjung harus meng-klik tombol di tengah itu lalu akan muncul paket yang lain. atau jika slider tersebut otomatis bergeser tanpa di-klik, pengunjung harus menunggu untuk melihat paket yang lain.”Masalahnya adalah…Mari kita berandai andai jika kita menggunakan Slider…Lalu saya menawarkan untuk menampilkan ke-7 paket dalam sekali pandangan mata. berikut adalah sketsanya…Dan berikut adalah hasil akhirnya.Sesuatu yang indah, tapi tidak membantu untuk menyampaikan tujuan/strategi kita, maka itu sama saja dengan suatu kegagalan ☺Berawal dari kesamaan visi untuk saling berbagi tentang bagaimana membuat interaksi semakin nyaman untuk pengguna. terbentuklah UniteUX. kami adalah komunitas yang berfokus pada User Experience.Tiap bulannya kami mengadakan seminar, workshop dan sharing tentang bagaimana meningkatkan kenyamanan interaksi pengguna.Website: Facebook Group: Twitter: @uniteuxTerima kasih telah menyimak presentasi ini. mohon maaf jika ada kesalahan ☺Tidak ada design yang sempurna, tapi semua itu dapat mendekati kesempurnaan jika kita mendengarkan masukan dari para pengguna. ingat… kita bukanlah pengguna kita, apa yang kita pikirkan belum tentu sama dengan yang mereka pikirkan.Web Developer  Mobile Apps Designer | 

(And My eyebrows knotted as my boss tells me I had been given the role of a UX Manager.In 2007, I joined a Nasdaq-listed, Top 1oo e-commerce website as a project manager. My expertise back then was Search Engine Optimization (SEO). I was under the marketing department and my role transitioned into User Experience (or UX for short — I know, why X and not E?). At that time, you could not find a UX job in the popular job-hunting sites in Manila (jobstreet, jobsdb, trabaho.com) so the job description was vague for me. The only place I could find a UX position with description was at Monster Jobs (a US company).This was my first encounter with UX. Few people knew this career choice then. I had to find out what this User Experience really meant.Where did UX come from?If you search for a It was only in 2007, the year the iPhone came out, that the term User Experience become widely used. The iPhone was a “leapfrog” product with an amazing touch screen interface. The thinking was that you had to be UX designer to create amazing products like this.I wanted to reach out and learn from people with the knowledge to help me improve. I remember searching online for anyone with the title “User Experience” in the Philippines. I could not find one.My friends were SEO guys, the designers and the web analytics people and my burden was to be the “UX” guy.Following his lead, I had also purchased the domains UXPhilippines.com  UsabilityPhilippines.com. For a long time, these two domains just pointed to a Luckily, I found out where they were.In the Philippines, people seemed to associate UX with User Interfaces (UI) and in particular — websites with great UI. The They were the first people I could talk about UX with.For a time, my understanding of UX were prototypes  wireframes. That’s what we did, along with competitive UI analysis. We conceptualized based off designs we knew had worked before.Our lead designer at work was If you ask in Rico would later say in one of our This was a recurring confusion in the UX scene.What was UX and how web design related to it? Is there more to the designing interfaces that we needed to have another term called User Experience?There were no real sources of training for anything that we did and we had to learn online and through books. We pitched for creating a usability lab but we could not justify the prices of eye-tracking hardware.I felt like we machines simply churning out websites based off wireframes  best practices. What about the people who were actually using our websites? Was there something more we could do to help them as they shopped online?My role in the company changed from UX to that of a Product Manager in 2010. This was when I met Allan.Allan is the kind of guy who would cry over the death of Steve Jobs. He was that passionate. He had an excellent relationship with This became the door to UX that’s beyond just websites. Discussions on Ergonomics, Cognitive Science and Industrial Design became regular discussions points with Allan.In one evening, Allan, Dr. Rose, After this discussion, we decided to formalize the group and use the domain UsabilityPhilippines.com for it. We had our first event — the It was at this time that another design professional, Andrei would be critical on this issue of content in one of my chats online with him. Designing with “Andrei would later on work in the Despite the initial successful World Usability day event, the founding members became too busy with their day jobs. We planned for another World Usability event but it did not push through.Allan created the The first It was in one of our UPH meet ups that I met the Sulit.com.ph team. I joined Sulit as a product manager then eventually as its UX Manager.The local communities were now really looking at UX — including the startup scene.The community discussions transitioned more and more from Usability to User Experience. By 2014, a number of active UX members, including Micael, Even design agencies were taking a serious look at what UX meant in their space. IMMAP had an Cebu city also started their own Companies like UXMNL, in particular, became popular for bringing in foreign speakers like Briane and Thus we planned the the UXPH Conference in 2014. It was the first time we had a really large event for our the growing UX community.We had audacious plans. We wanted a big name foreign speaker to Manila.We wanted Russell Morgan told me and Mica De Rivera one time as I visited him and Christine Balatbat in UXMNL. We were planning for UXPH. Whitney was part of the grand plan.We called her via Skype and we talked about the possibilities. After some discussions on logistics and expenses, Whitney finally saidI felt the warm air then and my sweat began to drip. What was she going to ask?We sighed. It would be tricky to estimate the number of people coming and reserving a venue for the event. We thought we could do it.With that, she nodded. That was good enough for us. She was coming to Manila. We were elated and planned for the venue.The venue was indeed tricky as reserving for a large event of around 300 people would cost us a hundred thousand pesos or more. This would have a significant impact on our ticket pricing.We knew PWDO was going to hold their event (FFC2014) at DLSU’s Henry Sy Sr. Hall. The prices were much more reasonable. We thought, can we also get the same venue?Thus we asked Briane and Ralph, our two UXPH members and DLSU professors about it. They indicated it was possible. We had a venue!The Russell emailed Hess a couple of times. Finally we had a confirmation — it was still on. Whitney was still going to Manila.The UXPH Conference had around 300 participants. It was the first time we had a major event for UX in the Philippines.With more and more companies embracing the Human Centered Design, UX, and the Design Thinking Culture, the future looks promising for UX here in Manila.The UXPH Members have now been active doing their own teaching sessions and events. Others have been adopting UX in their own way.We’ve come a long way from a simple domain name way back then.I smile as I write this article. In a way we accidentally designed our own UX Community. It’s been a product of many iterations of meetups and sessions. I’ve also understood about what it means to be “human-centered.”It’s about the people. The people make the community work. This article is a tribute to them and to you — the reader.Perhaps someday whatever we’re doing here might have a significant impact in this country.Perhaps we’ll have our own little ‘ding’ in the universe.Marketer. UX/UI Enthusiast. Dreamer.

Having missed the UXSG conference this year, I was really excited to attend Although it was a short, one-day conference, I learned a lot.Since I have been the lead designer in the team, I made tons of design decisions and had to defend them. With no other UX designer in the team to discuss with, I would doubt my design skills when I wasn’t completely confident. In the past, I asked colleagues for feedback or even to vote on which design they liked the best.During the conference I listened to what other designers think, the problems that they encounter and the things going on in their mind. It’s quite reassuring to know other designers are also dealing with the same challenges. This was that little nudge that I needed.During The most important thing is that we should use our judgement, trust our instinct and test our assumptions.We have to remember that user experience design is basically designing the digital product. Then it becomes the team’s responsibility and not just the designer’s. The team’s responsibility is to listen to your recommendations, implement them and together test your assumptions.You can find more of my UXMY notes on Twitter. (UX/UI designer, dancer, foodie, traveller.

What’s hot in UX this week:We know Been there, done that.Clickbait headlines generate extra clicks, extra shares — but not necessarily relevant discussions and thinking.We think it’s time to take UX discussions to the next level. From now on, you’ll start seeing less and less clickbait headlines in our newsletters.You know, we are capable of more than that.Here are the most relevant (not the dumbest / not the easiest) UX-related links this week:President Obama has quietly recruited top tech talent from the likes of Google and Facebook. Their mission: to reboot how government works.The New York Times is blocking access to the desktop version of their website inside their headquarters, for all employees. The “experiment” aims to make sure staff understand how crucial mobile is to the future of The Times.Adobe just announced their big new release for Photoshop Creative Cloud 2015. Here’s an overview of the features designers all over the world are most excited about.Here’s some backstage information and thinking on crafting Facebook’s newest mobile app “Moments”.A collection of UI patterns neatly organized in categories. Inspiration all over the place.Get to know Jonathan Sketch in his journey through the valleys of technology and the mountains of design and aesthetics.Interesting look at how Disney’s animation principles are possibly being applied to some of the best motion driven apps currently on iOS.Website redesigns from some of the most-visited media destinations on the Internet may be leaving users with a bit of déjà vu since many are sporting the same visual elements.Image of the week (via Share the love ♥Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Over the years there has been many tools and techniques weve all come across that have helped solve a problem, illustrate a solution or define an insight.For me the many canvases and templates Ive used across the internet and collected over the years, have been a mash-up of various file types and formats.With a spare day to myself recently I embarked on a task that had been long overdue — to standardise and collate all of the common canvases I use in product management, UX research and UX design, in So, here we have the rather lengthy titled “As I discover more tools that fit the bill of making product management and UX easier or more insightful, Ill continue to update. Ill also shortly add the project to Github for the more techy of users out there to fork.Here’s an illustrated list of all the canvases you’ll find in the Super Pack:Use the Document Cover sheet to summarise your project, and add any contextual links that will assist in providing more details, such as the Axure Share or InVision Share address. This adds the most value if you decide to print your document, so you have a physical work book.Duplicate the Blank Template to create your own canvases, or free-text or illustration pages within the Axure template.The Need to spend some time prioritising that backlog? Maybe a Completing an Adoption Improvements Audit can help assess the uptake and ROI of features delivered within a product.Im a huge Jira fan-boy, through and through, however when it comes to sitting down with all stakeholders of a product and crowdsourcing Epics, Stories and Tasks for agile development, I have found that Jira simply overwhelms those who have not come across it before.So in those instances I complete the same workshop and collate it all in to the Epics and Stories canvas that you see below, and using Axure Share, send out the link for feedback, before working with the Scrum Master or a BA to migrate these to Jira or Trello.This canvas also includes 2 key variables that I find essential for backlog prioritization, development sizing and business priority, which are purely personal preferences.For development sizing, I prefer the t-shirt sizing method of XS, S, M, L, XL, and for business priority, I typically customise Jira’s priorities to:I have found this approach much more engaging and standardised instead of Critical, High, Low as I believe “Critical” alludes to a time constraint.I find the Research Approach Template useful for summarising the when where and why of UX research projects.The Persona Overview Template is great for smashing out some persona’s side by side, or you can go into more detail in the Detailed Persona Template.The User Interview Template is great print out for those user interviews, and includes a mini-persona and some guidelines to help keep the interview open and flowing.Great for illustrating the outcomes of user interviews, or contextual enquiry, the Affinity Diagram also is great for documenting all the post it notes you may of collected along the way.Documenting a template for Contextual Enquiry I found quite difficult, so and appreciate any feedback on how I can improve this one for you all.The Empathy Map Template I find really useful when in the workshop environment for the team to “become” the persona.Best used with Axure “flow” feature, this template helps layout the IA in the traditional linear style.The storyboard templates I find help summarise a process before getting into the details of wireframing and prototyping.Once there, you can use the Wireframe and High Fidelity Templates to begin those journeys.And that’s it for now. Please do let me know what you think of the Super Pack by hitting the “Recommend” button below and leaving a comment, and I hope you find the pack of some use in the future.#axure #productmanagement #agile #ux #cx #userexperience #lean #leanproductA very English Digital Product ManagerWritings for Product Managers and Non-Products Managers alike.

Hello!We’re We’ve noticed that it’s too difficult for clients to find UX professionals. Where exactly do these people hang out? How do you find them?To make things a tad easier we’ve created UXdesignin.X. A curated list with the best* UX Design agencies and professionals in every country. To help our industry and to help clients find the UX team that fits their needs.We think you should be part of this list! If you want to set UXdesignin.X in your country, Best,– *“People who design solutions for a living. People trained to solve problems. People, clients can count on to solve problems, present good work on time, be accountable, and argue from an informed point of view.” — Mike MonteiroUX Designer at Central — aspiring climber, biker, bread-maker apprentice, flâneurWe help international companies design and optimize digital products. 

At But I don’t do it alone. There is a team of UX designers and prototypers spanning multiple cities that help me. They are the backbone to the elegance that we deliver. But a major challenge we face everyday is deciding where and how to focus our energy.In our business, nothing is equal; there’s always a hierarchy of trade-offs whether that be in the design or in our day-to-day activities. Understanding how you are making these trade-offs is critical to running an effective team.Here are the five most important things a UX Director should do:Hire smart people so that they can produce great work. Do not muddle their time with unnecessary work.There’s a lot to team chemistry: trust, communication, and honesty. When building my teams, I focus on two primary things to build team chemistry:And once you’ve hired that right person…Our UX team solves some pretty incredible problems. In order to do so, they need to be constantly thinking critically. So it’s my job to make sure they have the outlet for asking questions, communicating issues, talking about their growth, or just venting. However, with a growing business and team, you become a bottleneck very quickly. How do you keep details and priorities from falling through the cracks? 1) Set up a format for regular conversations and 2) Find and hire people that are damn smart.Here are a few real-world examples that are the result of focusing on these two priorities:My role to Kareo’s business is to constantly make sure we’re delivering value to our customers. Sometimes, the UX process and our commitment to delivery don’t align. Maybe it’s scope creep, or maybe it’s a crazy strain of the flu that knocked out half my team — who knows, it could be anything. If that’s the case, it’s important to inform other stakeholders of the situation and try to remediate the problem as soon as possible.Finding stakeholders and coming to alignment on expectations is the key to unblocking your team. Take the time to familiar yourself with other organizations. The more you know about their process, the easier it will be to have trade-off conversations.One of the reasons I joined Kareo is because of their dedication to learning how to become a design-driven company.When I first started, there were only 3 designers, including myself. We supported a lot of engineers so naturally we were treated more like a service team rather than a key member of the product. But if we were truly going to be design-driven, we needed to make a few radical changes.Here are 4 things we put in place immediately. Some of these things take a long time to develop, so start having these conversations early!Structuring our team in this format makes sure that we have a voice and a seat at the table.Interested in being part of this Brady Bunch? Read more about us here: UX  Design Director at Kareo. Previously, first employee at Redfin, managed Kindle Content Design at Amazon, and UX Director at Conenza and BlogTalkRadio.

Sitting on the other side of the table during a UX interview is a very different experience. I don’t see a lot written from the personal perspective of the UX interviewer. But I’ve never read something from the person who conducted these interviews.That is what this article is about. I wanted to write something with some personality and heart. So here it is; my experience over the last 15 months in interviewing dozens of UX candidates, and eventually hiring (two) Sr. level co-UXers that work with me as peers.Recently, more than a few articles have popped up concerning “what to do, what not to do, 5 biggest mistakes, one cool trick… etc etc.” The problem I had with these articles was that they were stale 600 word editorials that didn’t really provide anything interesting. The same boilerplate advice meant to generalize out to as many companies or candidates as possible. They were written from an anonymous, 3rd party perspective where there was no human voice, This is all just my personal take, it’s not a general guide or a how-to. It might provide something that helps you directly, and it might provide some things you disagree with and don’t like, which still helps you to clarify your own goals and preferences. Either way, I hope it’s not just another boring collection of things you can read anywhere.Before we begin, know I am not a hiring manager, I just brought my chosen candidates to the review committee.Over the past 15 months, I had the chance to have two separate job postings open, around 6 months apart.Each time, there was probably 50 resumes submitted. Being that UX is a fairly specialized and nuanced role, I had the HR recruiter send me every candidate that came through; there was no way to explain what we were going to be looking for.As the resumes came in, we looked at them usually within the same day. We had a system we went through first — the initial disqualification round. This is necessary, a lot of people don’t even try, or they just apply for every job with UX in it whether they are remotely qualified or not.I will always put as much effort into reviewing an applicant as they appear to have put into preparing or submitting materials. I believe in being fair. But like the Russian Police, that first look at a resume has to be a stern one. Stern, but fair.The email is forwarded with a resume attached. I drag it to the desktop and hit spacebar to preview it. Here are some instant DQ’s:With the resumes we didn’t instantly delete, it was time to check out any material you submit.A UX portfolio is a If the first phases went well, I’d want to talk on the phone or in person ASAP. My personal goal is to rule people in, not rule them out. I want to attract as many people with strong potential as I can, and the quickest way to do that is by talking. It’s not an interview yet, I just want to make contact and get a sense for each other’s personalities.I do have one question I ask that is more about how a person responds. The details of the answer aren’t super important.It goes “We believe in getting people the hardware they need. Tell me what we’d need to buy for you so you show up your first day and can just start.” Don’t say “just whatever” or “I can work on anything, I’m flexible.” Do you want a Windows box? Linux? A Mac? Do you need dual 27” screens? A big Wacom? What sort of keyboard? Mouse? Laptop? Desktop? Solid state drives? 16 gigs of RAM?I’m not trying to burn money or just indulge in “geek toys.” This is a serious job and every second you’re impeded by hardware is a second wasted. Plus, I like to know that people have preferences and that things that matter to them. Even if certain hardware isn’t feasible, at least you spoke up. It also let’s you know your prospective employer’s view on investing in new hires.My current CEO said to me during my interview, “If you’re working at a place that won’t get you the tools you need, you don’t want to work there.” That’s truth.After many months of interviewing people, I find finally was able to hire a peer, and then he and I repeated the interviewing process for a few more months. We eventually hired a 2nd peer. Here are the highlights of why myself, my boss, and our company chose them:But most importantly, Oh and I guess they had experience. But experience isn’t what excites me. Lots of people have experience. And lots of people have 10 years of experience in repeating the same year 9 more times.Smart people hire a person, not a work history. They ask “What can you do for me in the future?” I’d take a newbie with potential over a veteran who doesn’t seem excited. Your career history and past accomplishments are good, but remember; I’m hiring a person. I’d be more prone to hire someone that isn’t an exact fit for the role, but has too much potential to pass up.

It was October 9th, 2009 when we got the finalized paperwork from the Trade court here in Zagreb — a moment which officially marked the birth of UX Passion. UX Passion existed for quite some time — first as an idea and even as my private blog. When Often we are asked what is the secret sauce for success, how come that we made it… We don’t know about the secret sauce or a recipe (or even what the “success” means) but I think that some of the key ingredients are having a good team, be willing to adopt and learn along the way and be comfortable with making many mistakes. And I made my share of mistakes — something I still continue to do. But what I learned in these past 6 years is that mistake is a mistake only to the degree you let it be a mistake. Better approach is to take them as learning experiences. Granted, you’ll repeat some of those mistakes, but along the way you’ll learn how to avoid making some. It’s called growing up and accepting things as they are and then changing them in a meaningful way.Last year was And then there is this From the leadership and management point of view, personally, as a CEO I had focused on the three key things in the past year.Today, one year later, I can proudly say that we have the best team we ever had as a company. But the process is never finished and we are constantly looking for great people to help us deliver wonderful and meaningful experiences, services and products all over the world.While finances can’t be used as a single and only measure of success, they can be indicative. We kept investing in our people and in research and development activities. That is huge majority of our costs and that will never change. We thrive because of our people, their talents, ideas and personalities. We have no established hierarchy, no dress code or any real formality. We work in project-oriented teams and my main role as a CEO of the company is to serve and make sure my team has all it needs to do their job. To an outsider, it might be easy confuse our lack of formality for the lack of professionalism — we work for some of the world’s largest firms and organisations and we are doing our best to deliver greatest possible experiences to them. But we know how to have a lot of fun while doing so! Our unofficial motto is “work hard, play harder” — it helps us stay young and fresh.Another ideal we live by is our “financial motto” — we only spend what we earn, we don’t take loans or overdrafts, we are not seeking for an investment at this moment. It’s harder this way, but it is also something that keeps us alert at all times and makes us more agile. Just in last 6 months we politely declined 2 offers for investment in the UX Passion or our products. While honestly flattered, we think that at this moment in time that would not be in our best interest or in the interest of our potential investors. Maybe that moment will come later on, but now, it’s just not the right time.And lastly, So at the end of the day, we stay here looking towards the future ready for new challenges. We rediscovered ourselves, reignited our true passions and built the great team to lead us there. Expect many changes and new things to come from UX Passion this fall and winter — but hey, let’s keep that news for some future blog posts… Thank you for being with us, supporting us, critiquing us and challenging us!CEO at UX Passion. Passionate about all things user experience, design  product. I love biking, long rides and creating and growing stuff.

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Когда многие дизайнеры сталкиваются с одной и той же сложной задачей (к примеру, меню в мобильном приложении), и кто-то решает ее с особым изяществом (например, скрытое меню на Facebook), и многие дизайнеры перенимают это решение, — это помогает пользователям быстрее “врубиться” в устройство приложения или сайта, ведь они видят подобное решение снова и снова.Эти общепринятые решения так и называются:Некоторые виды дизайна становятся популярными только потому, что позволяют ленивым UI-дизайнерам избегать сложностей. Это все равно, что надевать пакет на голову кому-то страшненькому.На деле, многие пользователи даже не заметят скрытое меню и покинут сайт или запутаются.Это плохо.Это для ленивых.“Так вот, паттернов проектирования — сотни, и они эволюционируют изо дня в день, следом за девайсами и технологиями. Поэтому я не смогу составить список. Но вот вам хотя бы пара ссылок, на которые стоит обратить внимание:1) 2) 3) 4) 5) Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

What’s hot in UX this week:Creative sprints are typically multiple day processes that get a whole team together to define the challenge, come up with a lot of ideas, build the best ideas and test them out. Pioneered by Google Ventures for small start-ups, we have modified them for a company of the Guardian’s size.While this is an intensive process it’s also very effective at getting an entire team focused on solving a problem quickly. There are clear opportunities for stakeholders to have input but it also ensures the entire team feels ownership over what they are working on.Structured diverge (go wide) and converge (narrow down) opportunities mean vocal team members and quiet ones all get a chance to contribute. When done correctly they are also a lot of fun — having coffee and sweets throughout is a must.via For most products, fewer than 5% of new users who sign up will become actively engaged. In addition to patching a leak in your acquisition funnel, the LTV of a successfully onboarded user can be up to 500% higher than a user with no onboarding.Designing the user experience of a website involves more than figuring out what goes on each page. It’s also about figuring out how those pages flow together. If you don’t plan your page flow, you could run into problems when you start to design.“After wearing my Apple watch daily for the past two+ months, I’ve found myself wishing for a simpler interaction model for moving between content and apps. Here’s what I’d propose and why. The vast majority of my interactions with the Apple Watch involve notifications.”“A year ago I made a big move, and switched to using Sketch as my primary design tool instead of photoshop. When I wrote my article about moving to Sketch it received tons of feedback and you could say it went pretty viral. Some comments were supportive, and some were very disparaging.”“There are numerous ways to improve overall page load time. In this article I will concentrate on perceived load time. That is the time from when a page starts loading until the user is able to proceed.”Seasons have passed and advancements have been made, but there’s not a single trace of verdict been delivered on the debate of infinite scrolling versus pagination. As a result, some designers are still refereeing a tug-o-war between the two methods to decide which to implement into their projects.Designers are increasingly adding great photography for branding and storytelling, and when done well it sends a powerful message.via Brought to you by your friends at Share the love ♥Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Эти две, казалось бы, противоположные силы на самом деле не такие уж и разные, поскольку во главе угла все равно стоит пользователь. И чем раньше вы осознаете его нужды, тем успешнее будет ваш продукт.Всем наплевать, что у вашего продукта миллион функций. Людям важно только то, что продукт способен сразу начать выполнять их задачи.Ниже мы вкратце расскажем, как выглядят эти противоположные процессы в ходе создания нового приложения.“Универсальные принципы дизайна существуют давно и будут существовать еще долго. Если вы считаете, что ваше грандиозное приложение обойдется без них — одумайтесь!”, — говорит Ян. “Такие вещи, как гармония, иерархия и юзабилити — это инвестиции в опыт взаимодействия каждого продукта”.Чтобы достичь этого на практике, важно рассматривать UX как цель на каждом этапе дизайна и разработки, даже если главная задача — поскорее предоставить пользователю рабочий продукт. В этом случае, когда главной задачей станет UX, вы сможете с легкостью внести необходимые изменения.Вторым важным моментом является сбор фидбэка от всех заинтересованных лиц. Это не означает, что надо пытаться всем угодить. Это лишь означает, что, когда дело доходит до применения продукта на практике, мнения инвесторов и менеджеров могут быть так же ценны, как и мнения пользователей.Запускайте сайт в том оптимальном состоянии, когда его можно улучшить, при этом не разрушая. Текущий облик сайта ведь не высечен в камне. Важно, чтобы сайт мог меняться, развиваться в зависимости от нужд пользователей и под влиянием новых технологий.Продолжение следует…Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. “Минимально жизнеспособный продукт — это достижение совершенства через избавление от всего лишнего, это — ваше лучшее вложение денег, это — настоящая проверка суровой реальностью” — перевод электронной книги Криса Бэнка “The Guide to Minimum Viable Products”

I get asked on a more than regular basis “So, how do I get into UX?” It’s an odd question, as really, in the broadest terms, everyone is a UXer. We all create “experiences” which are liked or disliked by other users.My own trajectory into UX started with an undergraduate degree in Anthropology with a minor in Fine Arts. Interpreted from my current standpoint? I majored in deciphering the stories of humans and telling those stories visually. Even when I went back for a MA it was in Advertising/PR, not this odd creature called “UX” that’s now become so popular.What I’m saying is that for all that there are many amazing UX courses you can take, you don’t have to take them to be a UXer. Yes, you should probably bone up on the lingo — I had no idea what card-sorting was til I read about it in a UX book… I’d been using a similar technique for nearly the same purposes, but had never known it was “a thing.”There are also plenty of online courses you can take. Personally, I’m not an online learner. I’m a hands-on in-class working-with-the-other-students kind of learner.Or, I learn from books. I like books. A lot. I like having my arsenal ready at hand to thumb through. I take notes in the margins of my books to remind myself of what I’ve learned. I remember information visually and the spine of a book is the best way for me to recall what I read.So… to answer everyone who’s ever asked me — and those who haven’t yet — here is a list of must have books so that you too may enter into the magical world of UX.So there you go. Your intro to UX.Read up.Take notes.Scribble in the margins.I promise you won’t regret it.• Defenestration Expert • Applied Anthropologist • AgentFin Consulting • 

A teammate who recently joined our team asked me this question. I had to think a bit about what would be the best resources for him based on his skills and to make sure I don’t scare him with too much information.In this particular case, this colleague is an awesome front end engineer straight out of college with loads of passion for developing clean and beautiful websites.Below are my suggestions and why I think these would be helpful.With articles and resources for designers and developers, Smashing Magazine has been a goto resource for quick tutorials or a place to find great resources to help in my projects.2. Great curated list of articles on Design in general. A daily visit to this site has helped to draw insights and inspirations from All things Design.3. Medium has been my saturday morning destination for a weekly dosage of UX knowledge. There a bunch of great people like us publishing their thoughts and experiences. As long as the articles are taken as inspirations and the opinions in them with a pinch of salt, Medium is a great source of brain churning.4. Articles by the Brought to you by the awesome designers at Google Ventures( wish they write more!). Everything to do with UX + Lean + Startups + Products is covered and presented in the context of building great products for their portfolio companies.5. The place where the masters write about their recent developments in the world of UX. I love the articles especially which talk about the process of UX and how designers try and find better ways to make it work in different contexts and verticals.6. If you are serious about UI/UX/IxD/IA or any other name, you will land here. One stop resource centre on educational material on the theory and principles for everything related to experience and web design.What would you suggest? What are your favourite resources?Ethnographer, observer, user experience designer, part time cook, photographer, design researcher, innovation explorer, customer experience specialist

The first time I caught myself thinking about UX design was when I started reading the book called I used to work as a freelance web designer before I joined Make sure of having a clear picture of the product, that you are working on. Answer such question “what it does”, “how it works”, “what issue is it solving?” and make sure you understand the overall concept behind. What is more, make a flowchart and then a wireframe to help you understand the logic behind of user flow. This step is the foundation, the skeleton of your product, therefore it has to be strong and convincing. The most important thing - it has to make sense. If you are not sure about something, talk to your boss, your colleagues, ask their opinion or even conduct some pilot tests.For me personally, it took around 1 month to get to know the product and the concept of the EasySize product. I was lucky enough, that EasySize product is clean and clear in algorithm and the logic behind the technology is simple and easy. What is more, the product was already up and running, therefore I was able to save loads of time and just go and test some different prototypes (the next step).During the first weeks in EasySize, I have learned the data that we collect, how we use it and what the different scenarios in customer experience are. Moreover, it was easier for me to begin working at EasySize, because I do online shopping for myself quite often. I do believe, that UX designers have to somehow relate to the project he/she is working on, as this broadens his/her knowledge, experience and adds value to the design process.When I have gathered all the information about the product, I work on, I am then ready to put this knowledge to the first interactive prototype.Prepare your first idea. During this stage, you will need to put all the gathered information to your first prototype. The idea of this prototype is to present your concept. It doesn’t need to be perfect. But try your best to make sure 60%-70% of your general concept is presented via this prototype. However, it does not mean that you first interactive prototype can be just a piece of paper with random sketches and a few words. In other words, the prototype has to be clear enough to present the core concept without too many explanations. Moreover, from my own experience, depends on the scale of the product. If it is not time-consuming, I would also recommend to include the basic interactions and navigations. This interactive prototype will have a better representation of your design idea, therefore, you will be able to get the most out of it after the first test (step 3).There are many great Now, let’s move to the step 3 to test your prototype.It is time now for the most important part of your UX project. This is the stage where you need to start exploring “outside the box” by asking for people’s feedback and insights. In other words, testing is the core asset of the UX design. This step is divided into to two main parts: use usability test to identify main problems and A/B test to find out the solutions.Generally speaking, usability test is a qualitative test. It includes interviews, open questions and observations. The test result analysis is not aiming to find statistical patterns, but rather the problems like: whether the tester can understand the concept or the words he/she is seeing, whether they are looking for it in the right place and etc. Therefore, if the test participants ask such questions as “what’s that?” or “what’s next?” , you need to be alerted and write them down for further analysis.From my own experience in running tests for the EasySize products, I have noticed that usually Pick the element with A/B testing is also called “the split test”. The main idea behind it is to have a different solution for the same part of the product and then run the test to check which one performs better. The performance is usually measured by the conversion rate.)There are many great The A/B testing provides valuable statistics which give the confidence for the decision making process. For example, a while ago, I was testing how convert button in EasySize lightbox (“Find my size”) performs versus no button (automatic conversion) (look at the example below.) We found out that the original button (“Find my size”) performed better than no button by 42 %.This blog post wouldn’t have been called UX cycle if you didn’t have to do…a cycle again. Simply put, you will need to test your product again and again, once in a while. Adding new feature to the lightbox? Test different options and which one performs the best! Introducing a new website feature? Run a test to understand,whether users understand it, and if they don’t, then why? My honest advice for young UX designers would be:What is more, charge yourself with creativity and inspirations while reading books about the UX design, attend events, read various articles online… Take a look at those small usability details — why there is one solution, and not the other? How easy for users is to use this website, and why? This will train your mind to think more critically for the next UX project.And now, go to Haochen Xu, UX designer at Welcome to the world of new trends, insights and experiences

3 months ago my girlfriend and I packed our belongings, strapped a couple bicycles on my roof and drove over 4,000 km across America, to new careers opportunities in San Francisco.When we started to entertain the idea of moving to the other side of the country, we realized that you’re never really ready to get started. Realize that your portfolio is never as good as you want it to be. Getting yourself out there forces you to focus. Think of your work as a product. When the interviews start rolling in, be selective. My biggest regret was landing some of the heavy hitters before I was ready. I didn’t have answers to some of the deeper questions, and as a result I didn’t perform as well as I had hoped.If you can swing it try and schedule the easier wins first. You’ll build confidence and ultimately get better at selling yourself.There are so many tech companies in San Francisco. Unlike Toronto, SF has a lot of startups that appear very attractive on the surface — but may not be what you’re looking for. Be attentive to what you want to learn. Ask questions about the strengths and weaknesses of their (in my case, design) team. And base your selection on how you see yourself growing within the company you‘re interested in.As a Canadian, get an RBC account. They offer a So, all those wonderful services like And be ready for the higher cost of living. Rent is higher in San Francisco, travelling is expensive, and you need more savings than you think. All in I think I spent about $6k on things like transportation, rent deposits, and new furniture.Good luck!Thoughts to share? Product Designer at Pivotal Labs, San Francisco. Lover of outdoorsy things.What is your design idea? UI Design, Graphic Design, Web Design etc are all welcome. This collection is managed by 

Depois de alguns anos de profissão você acaba participando de número considerável de reuniões em que presencia um UX Designer apresentando seu trabalho para o restante do time. Consumer journeys, sitemaps, wireframes, benchmark, personas, resultados de pesquisas com usuários — entre uma É um momento que parece ser simples. Afinal, você já fez todo o trabalho: já quebrou a cabeça explorando várias opções de design, já colocou suas ideias no papel e muitas vezes já discutiu com outros designers, planejadores e desenvolvedores para verificar a viabilidade de determinadas soluções ou a precisão de determinada estratégia. Agora é só ir lá na frente e mostrar para o restante do time aquilo que você pensou. Não tem segredo.Acontece que o que parece ser simples pode ser muitas vezes decisivo para que as ideias que você colocou ali no documento sejam aceitas, aprovadas e implementadas no decorrer do projeto. Por melhor e mais infalível que seja a solução de design criada, se ela não for comunicada claramente para o seu time (e para o seu cliente), grande parte do valor e do talento que você colocou ali podem ir por água abaixo. Se o time não entende, não aceita ou não se encanta com a solução criada, isso pode criar problemas mais para frente. Afinal, um desenvolvedor não vai ficar feliz da vida em desenvolver uma interface com a qual ele não concorda.Tenho observado bastante esse momento de apresentação de trabalhos e às vezes me pego distraído reparando mais em É comum em ambientes de trabalho com muitos profissionais criativos esperar que todo mundo seja um extrovertido por natureza. Ainda mais em agências de publicidade ou estúdios de design. Aquele estereótipo do designer falastrão, que se comunica muito bem, quebra o gelo em poucos segundos e cria empatia com os colegas de trabalho é muitas vezes o mais esperado quando se pensa em um habitat como esse. Afinal, essas pessoas participam de brainstorms, têm uma mentalidade naturalmente colaborativa, mostram seus documentos com frequência para outras pessoas e muitas vezes são “jogadas na arena” para apresentar um trabalho sem nem terem tempo de se preparar direito.Mas a verdade é que alguns dos melhores UXers que eu conheço moram na outra extemidade dessa linha.Há algum tempo li um artigo da Smashing Magazine sobre Mas o que eu me peguei pensando esses dias é que existe uma relação direta entre a capacidade de um designer de se expressar bem em grandes grupos e o quanto o profissional se apega ao entregável ou não nesse momento.Um padrão que tenho observado nessas reuniões é que o Convenhamos, os entregáveis de UX costumam ser complexos por natureza. Sitemaps, fluxos, jornadas do usuário — todo o pensamento sistemático do UX Designer, se não explicado com parcimônia, pode acabar gerando documentos muito densos para serem digeridos nos 30 ou 40 minutos em que as pessoas conseguem manter o foco em uma reunião de uma hora.Designers mais introvertidos acabam suprindo sua reduzida habilidade de comunicação verbal com a produção de entregáveis que cobrem todos os casos de uso e variações imagináveis. Jornada do usuário detalhadíssima, wireframes impecáveis, sitemaps que deixariam É claro que é preciso ter cuidado para que a introspecção do apresentador não deixe coisas subentendidas ou omitidas no meio do caminho. Criar um documento que revele as informações gradualmente, cuidar para que haja uma boa hierarquia visual das páginas e saber balancear a quantidade de informação que os participantes da reunião conseguirão digerir são alguns dos truques que esse tipo de profissional acaba aprendendo depois de alguns anos apresentando trabalhos em sua carreira.Por outro lado, designers com mais desenvoltura verbal e com mais “presença de palco” na sala de reunião conseguem envolver as pessoas com a história que está sendo contada. E quando os designers sabem que têm essa habilidade, podem produzir entregáveis mais simples e garantir que a principal mensagem a ser transmitida seja verbal, e não necessariamente visual. Os slides são enxutos, com pouco conteúdo; servem mais como um lembrete para que o designer comece a contar aquele capítulo da história.A vantagem desse tipo de profissional é que ele consegue humanizar o problema que os usuários estão tendo e criar empatia com o restante do time. A desvantagem é que as vezes sobram algumas pontas soltas, já que para não quebrar o clima da narrativa o designer prefere não entrar nos detalhes técnicos de cada funcionalidade. Isso pode acabar gerando dúvidas ou falhas de comunicação. O curioso é que muitas vezes, quando mais cativante é a história, mais ela abre margem para a subjetividade e interpretações ambíguas.Usar o tom de voz correto, citar exemplos no meio do discurso e narrar a história sob o ponto de vista dos usuários são algumas das artimanhas mais usadas por esse tipo de profissional na hora de transmitir uma mensagem para o grupo.O ideal, é claro, é conseguir montar um time que misture profissionais das duas extremidades do espectro. Conheço duplas de UX Designers (ou mesmo de UX Designer + Visual Designer) que se completam perfeitamente. Um deles tem o pensamento mais sistemático e consegue conectar os pontos mais complexos no momento da construção do produto; o outro consegue envelopar a ideia e deixá-la atraente na hora de vender internamente e em reuniões com o cliente.Mas nem sempre é possível casar essas dois perfis em um mesmo projeto, e fica mais difícil ainda conseguir que esses dois profissionais estejam sempre nas mesmas reuniões o tempo todo.Um outro caminho é criar mecanismos que permitam que o mesmo designer caminhe mais livremente por esse espectro. Claro, com o cuidado de não forçar a barra e tentar mudar a natureza da pessoa para não deixá-la desconfortável. Profissionais híbridos, que conseguem transitar com facilidade entre esses dois mundos, acabam de destacando por conseguirem embrulhar empatia e excelência em um mesmo pacote.O problema é que No geral, boas práticas para tentar se manter no meio do espectro:Eloquência não significa necessariamente uma boa ideia ou um bom design. E um bom design não dispensa empatia nem poder de storytelling. Vejo que o equilíbrio sensato entre essas duas coisas é um dos maiores desafios para muita gente.Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Нашим первым экспериментом по переводу UX-контента на русский язык были “В ментальных заметках собраны Автором Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Новые подходы к разработке сайтов и приложений

When it comes to the experience of a product or service, the users are the focus. Do they find the product intuitive? Are they utilizing all of the features? How frequently are they returning or purchasing?However, there are some instances when companies also need to focus on the experience of the non-users. These situations are usually due to products that interact with the general public. As an example, there are many who dislike the loud exhausts of Harley-Davidson motorcycles. Without disregarding a signature trademark of its brand, Harley-Davidson should concentrate on how high the decibel level of their motorcycles should be when they leave the factory. There are laws that regulate how loud the bikes can be when they are purchased, but plenty of riders modify their motorcycles on their own. If this causes a large enough problem, the general public won’t have a problem with individual owners; they will go after the manufacturer. With a situation like this, it might be in Harley-Davidson’s best interest to intentionally lower the decibel level with the initial design to mitigate some of the issues after modification.Within the tech landscape of San Francisco, there is a company that recently launched its service and must also design for those who Leap has created an experience that solves multiple needs for urban commuters. Simultaneously, the startup has been mindful of the implications of particular decisions for those who don’t use the service but may be affected by it.Leap has focused on key elements of rider experience to set the service apart from public transportation options and other startups currently addressing the same need.Rather than have a multitude of stops that prolong the commute, Leap busses will focus on locations that will attract a critical mass.Since fewer and fewer people carry regular amounts of cash and the best alternative for public transportation in San Francisco is the Clipper Card, Leap riders will purchase tickets digitally and scan them on the bus via QR codes.Anyone who has been a passenger on public transportation in the Bay Area has seen first hand the aged condition of the trains and busses. Beyond that, it isn’t difficult to find blogs dedicated to bizarre activities witnessed on the vehicles. There are obviously people who would pay a small premium for a more desirable environment to spend a significant portion of their days.Whether riders need to start their day with some Blue Bottle Coffee or grab a snack on the way home, Leap provides snacks and drinks on the bus while wifi allows for a productive commute at a comfortable counter.There are plenty of people in San Francisco that rage against the tech environment that defines much of the city. They have targeted the employee busses for their protests which usually draw attention to outrageous situations pertaining to rent and living situations. Clearly, a company such as Leap needs to address the concerns of those who don’t use the service while simultaneously designing for those who do.Both the city of San Francisco and its residents have a valid complaint about the activities of the tech busses. These vehicles often use the same stops as the Muni busses. Obviously, that leads to late busses and traffic congestion when a tech bus sits at a stop delaying a city bus. Leap is establishing its own routes with its own stops. As long as the strategy behind the location of these stops is well developed, it should be just as unobtrusive as a delivery truck parked outside of a store.Google busses are exclusive to Googlers. Apple busses can only be utilized by Apple employees. Leap Transit is for anyone with a smartphone or access to a printer. It is, however, a premium service, so while a ride on Muni is $2.25, a Leap ride comes in at $6, or $5 if purchased in bulk. Therefore, while many people look at the tech busses as symbols of the elite due to their exclusivity, Leap busses are available to anyone willing to pay a rate slightly less than that of a typical ride on Lyft or Uber. As a result, Leap busses need not be viewed as divisive in the community.As part of its value proposition, Leap is focusing on areas of San Francisco that are underserved by Muni and could benefit from additional express routes between Pacific Heights and the Financial District. With additional mass transit options from the private sector, stress can be alliviated from some existing Muni lines and as the service grows, it has the potential to ease the tremendous traffic congestion at peak hours.With clear benefits when compared to riding public busses and implementing flat rates that appeal to commuters as opposed to the surge models of on-demand services, Leap has positioned itself to take great strides. Ultimately, the most daunting challenge will be the ongoing battle with public perception. In order to succeed, Leap must continue to focus on designing for the Non-UX.Experience Designer at Extole. Born in Ireland; raised in Santa Cruz.

I was invited to A UX persona was somewhat created. There are different approaches on creating a UX persona. The goal is to create a hypothetical character to represent a group of target audience. I would first come up with some descriptions of the demographics, then the behaviors, as well as the needs and goals related to the product or service; a visualization of the character with name, surrounding items and quote would be a great tool for empathizing.Yes, we create fictional characters, and that’s insufficient to build successful products. But this would be a start for recruiting relevant user research participants, as well as coming up with the feature set of your MVP.You may always create updated personas if you find your current personas not quite accurate, or if there’s a mismatch between the problem you want to solve, the target audience (the market), and the product.Back on the party, I decided on Rosemary  Chipotle Roasted Nuts. Thanks Leaving my family and setting up my own household have made me a more conscious consumer, especially on items that I have to live with for quite a while. Making good consumer choices can be such and art and science.What I demonstrated above are two user stories. After some initial understandings of contexts and audience, you are able to sum up users’ needs and goals, and come up with a list of features responding to those.I write users stories by loosely following the pattern — “As a (role), I want to (action), so that I can (goal). Starting with “epic stories” that illustrate high level goals, then step towards the details.I guess I wasn’t that horrible as a guest, I was invited back to Cliff  David’s home for a potluck party, the game this time was to represent a region. I came up with two creations.I would expect stew, bake, deep fry, and raw veggies (we actually had some sweet-as-candy tomatoes); the pan-fry-then-steam technique for potstickers is quite unusual outside of Northern China. And as I perceived, Americans are very into finger food with dipping sauce. I considered it a success.My Waterloo was the item I tried to represent my hometown Hong Kong. Sweetened red bean with crushed ice and coconut milk, an in-between of dessert and beverage. Sounds easy enough, right? What I forgot was the user journey.The event was for Cliff’s birthday, a birthday cake would be expected, and would usually be the first dessert item. With the obvious exception of Yōkan, most Oriental sweets would taste nothing after an American cake, especially when it’s the time that fondant cake dominates. David indeed made an impressive Minion cake, and my dessert tasted nothing.To visualize and communicate user experience in a series of interaction, we may create a experience journey map. I believe I created an anti-climax at the very end of the journey. No invite so far…Please follow, recommend and leave comments.Visit my portfolio site at The UXist 

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Как мы узнали вчера, паттерн создается тогда, когда что-либо повторяется. Однако, в некоторых случаях повторяющиеся элементы могут создавать некое подобие “фигур”, и это влияет на то, куда “упадет” взгляд пользователя. Поэтому сегодня объектами нашего изучения будут:Визуальное “натяжение” — это концепция, которая выглядит очень простой, но на деле является на удивление полезной. Наши мозги отчасти На первой картинке 8 уточек стоят в ряд. Мы не воспринимаем их как 8 отлельных уточек, мы просто видим линию. Это и есть линейное натяжение — видеть линию или “путь” там, где их нет.Наш взгляд обязательно “пробежится” по иллюзорному пути, чтобы увидеть, куда он ведет. Супер удобно.И если путь прервать (как и в случае с разрывом паттерна), внимание будет обращено на место разрыва.До сих пор мы предполагали, что воображаемая линия лишь одна. Но что, если мы создадим при помощи линейного натяжения сразу несколько линий?В результате получатся “фигуры”.На второй из представленных выше картинок уточки стоят таким образом, чтобы образовывать “углы” рамки. Вы Более того, теперь можно поместить что-то внутрь рамки (еще уточек?!) или в пробелы между уголками из уточек. Как и в случае с линейным натяжением, при пограничном натяжении внимание также концентрируется на разрывах.В контексте макета, этот ход поможет вам обратить внимание на что-то небольшое, вроде ярлыка. Или вы можете создать визуальный путь, ведущий к кнопке, которую нужно нажать. Эта техника часто используется в винтажной рекламе.И вот что удобно — этот прием делает макет ощутимо “проще” и “сплоченнее”, потому что путь, линия или рамка — это один ментальный объект, а 12 отдельных уточек — это слишком круто для восприятия.В этом уроке рамка, формируемая путем краевого натяжения, остается пустой, но вам не обязательно делать так же. Кроме того, вы можете использовать цвет для создания пути, как, например, в этом Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Разные люди используют сайты и приложения по разным причинам. И если при проектировании ориентироваться не на ту причину, то ожидаемых результатов не видать. Сегодня поговорим о разнице понятий:Когда вы заходите в интернет-магазин только потому, что товары в нем прикольно выглядят, или потому, что вы ходите оставаться в тренде, или потому, что мечтаете однажды зажить полной жизнью, наконец-то купив эту сумку за $2000, -это означает, что вы Просматривающий пользователь бросает беглый взгляд на большинство изображений, одно за другим, начиная с верхнего левого. Он может что-то пропустить, но это нормально. А вот на симпатичные фотографии он обратит особое внимание (возможно даже кликнет!)Когда кто-то пытается найти что-то конкретное, процесс поиска может быть походить на беглый просмотр, но данные по отслеживанию взгляда говорят об обратном — Ищущий пользователь игнорирует большинство продуктов и изображений. Правильная организация вашего лэйаута поможет таким пользователям систематично проработать все подходящие варианты; им не хочется ничего упустить!Лэйаут в стиле Pinterest работает против таких пользователей: он “расхлябанный” и произвольный. Но возможность “фильтровать” опции часто бывает полезна.Выделите только те характеристики, которые, скорее всего, критически важны для большинства пользователей, и ничего больше. Игнорируйте мысли о том, что “загромождаете” страницу — если информация полезная, она ничего не “загромождает”. Это не картинная галерея.Когда пользователь находит то, что искал, он кликает, чтобы узнать детали (или сразу покупает). В нашем примере интересными характеристиками, скорее всего, будут имя русской невесты, ее фотки и мнение о гадких, старых мужиках. А вот размер ноги и пристрастие к вафлям …. не столь важны.Ладно, скажем, пользователи просто не находят вашу потрясающую коллекцию антикварных казу, но вы уверены: стоит им наткнуться на нее, и они захотят купить. Как же помочь пользователям Скорее всего, ваше мнение о том, как люди обнаруживают новые вещи, в корне отличается от того, как они это делают в реальности. Добро пожаловать в чокнутый мир UX.№1 Пользователи кликнут какой-либо пункт меню, только если они ищут именно этот пункт. Вот так просто. “Находок” через меню не бывает почти никогда. И баннеры не сработают, потому что они никогда не работают. Вы что, никогда не пользовались интернетом? С чего бы людям вдруг начать радоваться баннерам?№2 Чем более опытны пользователи, тем меньше они исследуют новинки. На самом деле, только новички изучают сайты или приложения, чтобы узнать его возможности. Опытные пользователи знают, чего хотят, и знают, как это получить; так зачем им что-то исследовать?Вместо того, чтобы ждать пока пользователь обнаружит вашу “новинку”, лучше помогите ему найти Люди приходят на сайты вроде Reddit, чтобы почитать самые популярные статьи, а не новые публикации. Но ведь если никто не будет голосовать за новые публикации, не будет никаких популярных статей! Поэтому Reddit размещает новые публикации — в рамках интересующей вас категории — наряду с популярными; там их просматривают и оценивают, и круг жизни запускается по новой.Чем лучше вы понимаете своих пользователей, тем очевиднее для вас задачи вашего дизайна. Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

Алексей Копылов — Customer Journey Map — основной инструмент проектирования услугиHegle Sarapuu — How to Create an UX Industry from ScratchВиталий Фридман — Responsive Web DesignИлья Пухальский — Rest in PS — рабочий процесс современного веб-дизайнераНикита Манько — UX tips and tricks in Media and Entertainment. UX by feedbackЮрий Ветров — UX-стратегия на практикеНаталья Ядренцева — Визуализация данных: базовые принципы и инструментыНаталья Спрогис — Выбор правильных методов исследования. Опыт UX-лаборатории Mail.RuСофья Чебанова — Год в ТАНКЕ. Хроники UX-лабораторииАндрей Ланкин — Дизайн интерфейсов в детских играхГеннадий Драгун — Дизайн с темпераментомДмитрий Подлужный — Жизнь UX в маленькой московской студииВладимир Горз — Заметки путешественникаМаргарита Титова — История новой главной. От эскизов на бумаге к работающему дизайнуТатьяна Авлочинская — Мобильные игры: ID, UI, UXЕвгения Жадяева — О людях, их решениях и интуиции или поведенческая экономика для дизайнеров UXНикита Ефимов — Проектируем играючиВоронович Виталий — Разработка и адаптация дизайна для iOS 7 на примере приложений Sport.comАлександр Ревяко — Смерть и рождение дизайнераПлатон Днепровский — Тёплое местечко. Как ничего не делать и много зарабатыватьфотошоп-вАлшебникРазговоры про дизайн и всё, что с ним связано. По-русски.

← (Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Ваша работа как UX-дизайнера — не просто наблюдать за опытом взаимодействия, а создавать его. Поэтому нам мало поощрять или наказывать пользователей за то, что они обычно делают. Нам нужно освоить науку “дрессировки”, чтобы мы могли научить пользователей делать что-то новое. И продолжать делать это. Всегда. Итак, нам нужны:Как известно любому хорошему наркодилеру, клиента не подсадить на то, чего он не пробовал. Вывод: ваша миссия — дать пользователю максимум позитивных эмоций в первую же минуту, при первом же попадании на сайт.Причем это Хороший способ вознаградить человека— это Если вы сделаете мне что-то хорошее, я сделаю что-то хорошее взамен. А может просто Оба способа работают.Однако, если вы 100 раз сделаете мне что-то хорошее, то я 100 раз отвечу тем же. Ну или в ваших ботинках просто Большие, сложные сценарии поведелния начинаются с малого. Хотите, чтобы ваш голубь научился играть в боулинг? Без проблем! Поощряйте его, когда он приближается к шару. Наказывайте, когда он удаляется от шара. Потом требуйте большего. Пусть голубь В итоге, ваш голубок будет давать всем пять и распивать пиво с командой.До этого момента мы говорили о “кнуте” и “прянике” в отдельности. А как насчет “пряника” за Многие серьезные наркотики в первый раз приносят неверояные, удивительные ощущения. Поэтому люди их и пробуют. Однако, спустя некоторое время, человек чувствует себя ужасно без наркотика. И не может остановиться.Это привыкание. Или Веселая Ферма.Очень легко начать играть в Если только вы не пригласите друзей… или не заплатите…Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

I found a brilliant little trick Medium uses to make articles feel a little more worth your time.When Medium presents you with an article, this is what you see. The interesting thing is that there is no indication of i.e: Even when you try to find out how many people engaged with the article, Medium doesn’t make it easy for you. You can keep clicking “show more” and it’ll show you 5 or 6, but never let you get to the end. Is it 50? 500? 5,000,000?With Youtube, Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, Yik Yak, you can Medium does something a little different. It makes it difficult to tell In the future, when Medium articles consistently get tens of thousands of recommendations, they might attach “26,000+ Recommendations” to their content. Until then, “36 Recommendations” is a lot less satisfying than just leaving it as “iOS Developer, UX/UI Designer, Mythbusters Fan

If you think that digital design is that shaded part delineated by the Photoshop frame, I am afraid you are wrong. We have already talked about the job of a Professional design is close to engineering, no matter whether it’s an MVP of a shopping list or a particle-smashing super collider. Design is not the final product you can look at and play with, it’s a long process and a load of work preceding the final result. In order to deliver a successful high quality product that will satisfy the requirements of our clients and the wishes of the end users, we divide all the design process into user experience techniques.Whatever it is you have to do, there is always the most difficult stage and this stage is start. Once you take a pencil and do the first stroke, it gets easier. But what this first stroke should look like? In other words, what is the start in the designing process?The first UX technique is all about identifying roles. Hm…protagonist, secondary lead and all those guys extras who never get to talk? Not exactly, but these people are also important, no matter what you call them.Roles do not necessarily belong to people only. They can be the end user of the product, a mobile device, a server the app will communicate with, an organization the app is going to serve for and all other personas engaged in the interaction with the final product when it is being used.We need to identify the roles in order to understand the ecosystem we are planning to grow the product in. Once it’s done, it’ll be easier to outline the user experience landscape to define the functions the app is going to perform, as well as the scope of work each role has to complete.Now it really sounds like fiction. By the way, do you know that before inviting actors and shooting scenes movie creators sit down and draw? They need to understand visually the order of actions, the content of each film frame, the most favorable moments, weak spots and a lot more. Here is the Storyboarding used in movie production is one example. But as long as we are talking about design which is associated with graphics, why don’t we look back at the history of writing of the human race? It started from storyboarding – rock carvings, frescoes, painting animals on the cage walls and all that. Obviously, illustrating things works best for understanding of any concept or idea.Coming back to our digital age, how can we use storyboarding in mobile app design? We can draw comics with different characters and situations!You think you can skip this step if the situation is as clear as a day and as simple as black and white? Go ahead but there is a big risk that ignoring such an important technique won’t do any good for success of your product.The common mistake is to think that trivial at the first sight situation doesn’t need a spell-out. However, once you take a simple scenario of user interaction with your product and break it down into tiny pieces, you will notice a lot of issues you haven’t paid attention to. Storyboarding is exactly what you need to take into account all the nuances, determine design solutions and put them to the fore.The whole point of this step is to find those “a-Ha” moments we want from the team members and clients. Wonder what the hell is “a-Ha” moment? This is the moment of enlightenment when you get the idea of what is going on and why.Storyboarding helps us find problems and fix them. It can prevent possible issues in future, because discovering them later will apparently cost you more. We will make many mistakes in design anyway. Mistakes are needed for perfection. But the faster they become visible, the faster they will be corrected.“My strategy has always been: be wrong as fast as we can,” said Andrew Stanton, an American film director.Storyboarding helps us think. It helps us understand existing scenarios, as well as test the hypotheses for potential scenarios. Illustrating ideas is very helpful for others to get a better understanding of what we are trying to say. It’s like explaining directions to the train station in the city. You draw it on a piece of paper and any casual passer knows exactly how to get from the point where they are now to the destination where they want to be.Designer’s main skill is not Photoshop in fact, but the ability to formulate and describe a situation or a scenario. You divide the user of the product into a bunch of different characters and try out various stories that can happen to a particular character. Then you evaluate the probability of a situation in percentage and undertake measures to achieve the best user experience.Behavioral diagram describes behavior of external users (actors) visually. It identifies the exact actions each actor can take. For example, if we talk about library, there are two actors here. One is a librarian, the other one is a library customer. The library customer can search for or borrow a book, whereas the librarian can search for a book, add a book and remove a book.In our realia, a Greeting Card app, for example, will have two actors, one of which will be a Congratulator, the other one – a Birthday Boy. The Congratulator can log in with Facebook, choose a friend from the list of friends integrated from Facebook, choose a card, write his wishes and send a card to the Birthday Boy. Let’s assume, the latter does not have this app installed on his mobile device. In this he can get the notification about the greeting card sent by somebody he knows, come to the app store and install the Greeting Card application. Once there, the Birthday Boy can receive the card, like it and do whatever you wish him to do to enable the interaction with the Congratulator — send a reply, for instance. See below what the behavioral diagram for this case looks like.This part is an actual written description of each user case, that the interaction with your product can produce. We have talked about user stories in the When we have all the user stories thoroughly outlined, we can start planning sprints. For this we would need to set a priority for each user case and estimate the time in hours it will take to implement the function described in the user story. The highest priority items go to the production first. A sprint usually lasts one-two weeks. Its scope is planned according to the number of hours we need to implement a certain function. Typically one sprint will include a group of cases described in the user stories.When we have finished working on user stories, we get a clearer idea of the user interaction with your mobile application. This helps us create a diagram of the user behavior or a user-flow.User-flow is all about geometry. What I mean is that we need shapes with a certain definition to engage them in the diagram. Let me give you some examples:When we have all the shapes and user cases, we are good to put them on paper and draw a diagram that describes the process of the user interaction with your app.The user-flow helps to identify a set of functions for each page and how the screens intersect. Mind map represents the architecture of the product. It illustrates the structure of the app and relations between elements. Mind maps are some sort of wireframes without phone screens. Their main advantage is that they are very fast to make. There are Finally! Wireframes are the skeletons of the final design. The point of wireframes is to assign functionality to each screen and show the dependency between the screens. It’s the ultimate draft before coloring. Only when each wireframe is discussed with the team and approved by the client do we start working on colorful buttons, beautiful animations and original custom elements.Do you know that it’s possible to interact with and test the app before user interface design is passed to the coders? Fast prototyping services, such as Wireframing is followed by the mockups creation. We make prototypes of the mockups and send them to the client one by one. This way the client gets a working prototype that looks exactly like the future product. You can already brag about your app to your friends, show it to the investors or test on the target audience to get the feedback.Sounds like fun, doesn’t it?Looking forward to your exciting projects!Based on the lecture by Dmitry Prudnikov Designer and Art Director at YalantisJournalist. Mobile technology. Apps development. iOS, Android, Backend. Startups. Interviews. Creative writer.Mobile app technology, iOS  Android development, UX  Design, Startup interviews  Digests

Some are purists, such as the French and how they fight to keep their language from evolving and taking in words from the global melting pot. I am all for tradition, but if you don’t evolve you die, and I am very glad to have seen real user experience improvements show their face in this years World Cup.What has been exciting is how the solutions have been both high and low tech.Remember Tennis before we could see if the ball was in or not? Or American Football (There are still arguments regarding goals that were, or weren’t based on if we think they went in the net or not. It is really hard to tell from a lot of footage, and a goal in soccer is a big deal, and can easily change the entire match. Today we got to see the goal line technology and how it works:Yup, where can we use it next?My favorite “duh!” addition is the low tech variety. With one referee on the large field, it has been very easy for players to sneak a few yards with a ball, or inch up on the line. Thanks to “vanishing spray” (This of course just leads you to think, what next?The biggest problem in the game is the acting in my opinion. Whenever you see it, it makes you squirm with frustration. You see the diving to get a penalty or someone sent off, or clutching your body in agony, to then quickly see the person shake it off as though it was nothing (because it was). This has to be stopped, and I think we can offer some low to high tech solutions:What else can be changed? (Some solid additions to the World Cup. Here’s to more in the future as the beautiful game evolves.technologist, product engineer and human dev aggregatorThe ramblings of Ben and Dion (formerly: Walmart Labs, Set Direction, Ajaxians, webOSians, Mozillans, and more)

С 1 июня я продолжаю свою миссию по погружению людей в тему UX-дизайна. В этот раз я отвечу на 30 самых глупых UX-вопросов, которые мне приходилось слышать. Фишка в том, что ответы не столь очевидны, как кажется.И снова будет выходить по одному уроку в день, каждый день июня, как в Либо кто-то задал мне их в реальной жизни, либо я встретил их на дизайнерских форумах: такие вопросы и их храбрых авторов обычно высмеивают или игнорируют.Вы можете смеяться. Вы можете плакать. Иногда без этого невозможно.НО…… когда начинаешь задумываться глубже, удивляешься — так Ответить на эти вопросы бывает сложнее, чем кажется, и именно поэтому я собрал их вместе (на сбор 30-ти у меня ушел целый год!).Глупый вопрос — не показатель глупого человека. Это показатель Будучи новичком в чем-то, Рано или поздно ваш клиент или босс задаст вам один из этих вопросовЕсли вы UX-девственник — вы пришли по адресу!Буду счастлив ответить на любые глупые вопросы по курсу:Выпустили Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. От профессионалов новичкам

I’ve slowly been driving myself crazy at work by the seemingly simple task of (responsibly) throwing away my rubbish. Upon each visit to the sleek kitchen counter-tops I’m met with the minor frustration of trying to remember which counter-top holes are for trash, recycling, and compost. This everyday frustration is easy to forgive, but in the moment it’s real and has built up to the point that I blame myself for not remembering—after two and a half years—which hole is which.Am I really to blame? Donald Norman’s As the designer, builder, and craftsman of software experiences intended to delight, I must be mindful of avoiding these minor frustrations for my users, and to let them know that they should demand better.These counter-tops are frustrating because although they’re strong in When it comes time to throw away that banana peel, I’m left at a momentary loss because the usability of the counter-tops has been sacrificed to maintain their sleek silver beauty. Labels are provided on the sides of the counters to compensate, but they’re not visible from the point of operation. A clear indication, according to Norman, of failure, “when simple things need pictures, labels, or instructions, the design has failed.”One natural mapping that would improve this experience is a cultural one: By using this natural mapping—in the form of colour-coded metallic rims on each hole corresponding to its purpose—we can remove this minor everyday frustration. These colour-coded metallic rims would not only preserve the beauty of the kitchen counter-tops—and avoid any labels—but, thanks to their visibility at the point of operation, they’d serve to move memory as knowledge in our heads to memory as knowledge in the world.That it has taken me two and a half years to express this minor frustration is sobering because it means that the users I love to delight must similarly be frustrated and possibly blame themselves. Even though our Bringing the Tales from the Atlassian design team

Marketing, design, product, and sales all look at products differently for good reason. Some groups are focused on making the great product, while others are focused on selling the great product. Both perspectives are vital, and understanding the motivations behind each can better inform and unite across teams. At that, a good product team knows nothing is ever final- products are just in varying stages between testing and iterating. In my experience a lean, focused product team can really empower the sales teams to knock it out of the park. Here are a few reasons why UX is good for sales:There’s a commonality between all consumers (i.e.: humans): they really like when someone listens to their problems. Great customer service is about engaging and connecting on a human to human level. As UX designers we want to know every detail about your customers day. We’re interested in what their desks look like, what drives them, how they communicate, and how the product we design is going to make their day even better.An honest concern is that admitting any sort of weakness or imperfectino in your product with your users will weaken the relationship, when in my experience it’s quite the contrary. Sitting with users and asking how we can improve the product isn’t viewed as a liability, but actually an honest conversation that in my experience only shows how much we care about our clients. Admitting that there are faults in a product doesn’t hinder the relationship, in fact it shows that your team cares enough to change it and invest time in listening rather than telling.A sales team that works with product, design, and UX is at a significant advantage. A large part of creating a delightful user experience is aligning expectations with reality. It’s up to sales to help craft those expectations from the beginning so when customers begin using the product from the decision-maker down it’s what they expected and more. Being informed of which direction the product is being driven helps focus your pitch with fantastic detail.As sales teams build relationships with clients they are at a valuable vantage point to UX design and research. For a UX designer a new user to work with is a gift. Without those internal relationships and sales paving the way it usually takes UX valuable time and usually leverages personal relationships to begin the conversation. Any relationships sales teams can hand off or introduce to UX will speed the process along and show your company works together as one.Having a user-centered process means your next release is all about satisfying user needs. If it’s not then it’s not a user-centered process. So what’s in your next release? If your end-users and customers aren’t excited and amazed by the features you’re adding it might be time to go back and revise your goals and change that backlog.I overheard a head of marketing at SXSW say “People are concerned that their brand equity is on the line if they fail.” This frankly scared me- and it wasn’t because their brand equity might fail- it’s because they wait until they launch to test. You should be testing numerous times with actual users before launching. That’s the whole point of iteration- to cast a safety net so when you do launch there are little to no surprises.A good persona properly rooted in actual hands-on research allows your sales team to run on high octane. We all understand that your end user and your decision maker are usually two separate people (and if you don’t you have bigger problems than empowering your sales team), but the caveat is being able to speak to the specific benefits of your product per persona. Instead of saying “developers love it,” you’re now able to say “developers write 60% less code and have 70% fewer runtime errors. In our next release we’re planning on 90% fewer errors and 90% less code” Even if your decision-maker doesn’t quite understand the specifics, they’ll know that if their end users are happy they’re happy. Knowing who you’re talking to, what drives them, and what their motivations are is good business no matter which side of the product you’re on.To sum up, in today’s competitive landscape where startups compete with enterprise products the relationships made with users from both a sales and UX perspective are vital to a continuous iteration and deployment of successful products. At the very least having a conversation about sharing skills and leveraging information will payoff in spades.Product Management 

As an innovation agency, we at We’re also passionate about design, but we like to think of design as a complement, a feminine Pleasurable experiences and meaningful interactions aren’t mutually exclusive of course, but the driving principles and design process can be very different depending on which alternative is prioritised. By way of example, we’d like to share a few insights from the development process of At Kwamecorp, we have developed a Early in the design process, we decided LokLok should espouse 4 core values, namely:1. Coming back to our earlier point on meaningful interactions, let’s explore how shared meaning is born. Shared meaning is born out of sincere exchanges among peers, arriving finally at a common understanding. We asked ourselves how we could design a messenger that connects people in a novel yet meaningful way? At the same time, we also pondered the difference between say, a face-to-face conversation and a Facebook connection — the former is synchronous, and the latter could be both synchronous and asynchronous. How could we take advantage of this freedom?First and foremost, we designed the app for people who share their thoughts and activities, their lives even, with each other. While this seems a rather narrow target audience, there are a lot of advantages to this approach. Shared meaning is after all the basis of close relationships, and close knowledge of the other can be an affordance that apps can take advantage of. There is a sense of comfort when communicating with a loved one that doesn’t translate seamlessly when communicating with mere acquaintances. An app that preserves that warmth allows for a privileged safe space in the always-busy, ever-buzzing digital world.Speaking of ever-buzzing, let’s talk about notifications. We live in an increasingly asynchronous world, not least because of time zones and lifestyle differences. Of course, asynchronous communications are not quite as demanding as real-time conversations and that gives us some breathing space to engage with them when we wish to. The paradigm of push-notifications is impressive technically, but is only a necessity because of this On the other hand, we love serendipity, a mini-surprise that transforms an instant into a moment as if randomly noticing a curious object. In practice, Thanks to the Internet, and more recently, the big push towards mobile connectivity, we find ourselves in an environment of ubiquitous connectedness. We are spoilt for choice in even the number of ways we can be contacted — be it (video) calls, mails, (chat) messages, comments, tweets… the list goes on. And yet, So we asked ourselves how we could design an app that takes advantage of mobile connections to enable human connectedness? At Kwamecorp, we believe in connected creativity. When we create, we feel a sublime joy, a deep sense of satisfaction. Anyone who’s been in a band can attest to an almost magical feeling when playing together. So this principle inspired us to explore how we could unlock shared creativity. And looking around at ubiquitous formats for digital communication, hypertext messaging is vastly over-represented. But the inner artists in us felt instinctively that this was an unspoken tyranny… Free-hand drawings, we felt, had many advantages, chief among which was that they constitute non-verbal communication, which seems like a vastly underused mode in this hypertext era. Secondly (and on a related note), there is an intrinsic inescapable aspect of creativity to drawing, not least because there are no shortcuts or acronyms, no question of productivity, no race to efficiency. To choose to draw necessarily implies a By defining a value like “affinity over reach”, we further enshrined the commitment to meaningful interactions. The notion of a shared lock screen attracts mostly intimate groups. After all, it is unlikely that ambiguous drawings can be used for serious communication, not to mention the awkwardness of sharing lock screens with passing acquaintances. So, Building on their existing relationships, even ambiguous drawings become imbued with shared meaning. So, To preserve this intimacy, we really had to fight our habitual instincts to include excessive social networking functionality. While some features, like share buttons, are so ubiquitous nowadays, we felt they took away from the spirit and values of the app. Users do appreciate the safe personal space that LokLok allows them to share with their loved ones away from prying eyes.On the other hand, the lack of content being shared on social networks translates directly to lack of exposure. A call-to-action as vague as “Draw” can be stressful; imagine being given a blank page and told to impress the audience. That’s why the UX/UI had to be designed to minimise as much friction as possible.LokLok is designed primarily as a lock screen app, meaning it would be the first thing the user sees when looking at the phone. Entering the app is as simple as two taps on the cover-screen itself. Two taps and the user is in the app. Within the app, the most obvious and immediate interaction possible is to draw. Drawing is the raison d’être, and everything about the app’s interface is designed to encourage stress-free drawing. We realized quickly that photography is also a dominant means of sharing nowadays, if the prevalence of selfies, the popularity of image-text memes and the success of Instagram are any indication. So we added the functionality to take photos as well. Even if the user snaps a photo first, LokLok invites the user to draw We were inspired here by Buddhist monks who draw intricate mandalas with coloured sand, spending days on end with utmost concentration to finish a single piece, and then almost without a second thought, brushing away the entire piece. In LokLok, there is the possibility to choose colours or different types of brushes, but As such, the interface gives the drawing-board the fluid continuity of face-to-face speech as well as the oddly satisfying transience of ephemeral messaging. This is to free the user from ultimately unimportant choices, unnecessary stress. Just an innocuous fun way to communicate with someone else. Doodle away. Once you’re done, one button-press and the user’s lock screen is instantly updated. Connected lock screens update shortly, without interrupting the other’s activities. Fire and forget, back to the rest of life.For the most part, we have found that defining and then designing with values in mind help us achieve apps that are not just pleasant to use, but also bring a sense of lasting satisfaction from their use. That said, it is not always a perfect fit.For example, a core value in LokLok is “On the other hand, It’s been a lot of fun and sweat working on LokLok, and we are proud of our little baby app. In the short time it’s been in the wild, it has reached an install base of over half a million people, with a 4.1 rating on the Play store. From our user surveys, we have found that indeed the key demographic are couples who love using the app. We couldn’t be happier!This essay was just a compilation of some of our insights from designing LokLok. We’re sure we’re not the only ones having to choose between user value and business value, and certainly many others in the mobile space are exploring more intimate ways of communicating. So share your story, we’re listening.A creative collective of nomads roaming the planet and occasionally writing about it.

When most people say design, they usually mean visual beauty: an asthetic harmony of elements that looks and feels right. But when it comes to digital products — sites and apps — good looks are not the main driver of success.The goal of UX is speed. Specifically, the speed with which a user moves through a process or series of tasks. When a user can pick up your product and complete actions effortlessly, it builds a trust that leads to repeat usage. If they get stuck, confused, or even bored, the interaction is over, regardless of how pretty your design may be.In practice, designing for speed is primarily about reducing or eliminating the number of decision points. Making decisions is hard. Not just big decisions, but lots of small, tedious decisions. It requires alertness and is mentally draining.In a website or app, every interface element is a decision point. What is this thing? Is it important? Should I click it? All these processes happen subconsciously, but they still take up brainpower. This rapid process of evaluating decision points is known as “cognitive load,” and one of the key goals of UX is to reduce cognitive load so that action can happen as fast as possible.Consider examples of excellent UX such as Amazon or Craigslist, which are not particularly visually attractive but always fast and easy to use. And conversely, there are thousands of sites with pretty graphics and typography, or fancy animations, that are essentially unusable.Of course, speed and beauty can, and do, often coexist. Many modern designers are bringing together the best of both worlds to create the world-class digital products we read about every day.Interestingly, visual beauty often occurs naturally as a by-product of designing for speed.Since UX design is concerned with removing cognitive distractions and keeping information to manageable amounts, this usually results in clean and simple layouts. Importantly, this is not minimalism as an aesthetic choice; it’s the natural consequence of rigorous UX thinking.This is why the interface design process must be led by UX, and visual design is applied later as a light skin (or, more accurately, a few key choices regarding color, typography and graphics).In fact, many visual design principles and habits often make for bad UX.Subtlelty, for example, is often considered beautiful. But UX design strives to be totally clear and unambiguous — the opposite of subtlety. Color is used as a guide, not as a decorative element. Typography is chosen for legibility across devices and styled to indicate hierarchy of importance.Most designers are trained think in terms of a finished layout, where they are in precise control of the relationships of visual elements. However, software design is inherently modular; most sites and apps are essentially libraries of components that are dynamically assembled in real time. UX designers think in a systematic fashion about how those parts come together in different contexts, not in one unique case.Traditional designers often have a tendency to overcommunicate instead of using simple cues to drive action. Long blocks of copy and lengthy video introductions are common symptoms of this problem. Instructional text is often used as a crutch when the underlying interaction design is poor.Finally, many non-UX designers choose design elements by how they look rather than how they function. A common example is using a droplist to present a list of options instead of laying them all out as buttons. The thinking is that the droplist takes up less space so it’s more elegant. However, it takes the user significantly more time to realize there’s a droplist, click on it, and read the options — especially if it’s on a mobile device. Of course there are many cases where a droplist is appropriate, but this example shows how something that may seem to look “cleaner” can actually slow a user down.As more and more businesses are developing their own software products, decision-makers can often bring old biases to their evaluation of interface design. Years of looking at design for print or video can skew one’s understanding of what constitutes good design in the interactive medium.I encourage decision-makers to question their old assumptions about what is good. When the UX is right, visual beauty will take care of itself. With apologies to JFK:Ask not “How good does this look?”Ask “How fast does this go?”

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Большинство людей принимают за UX то, что мы называем Wireframe-ами: набор схем с блоками и связями. К сожалению, большинство людей также считают, что создавать Wireframe-ы — означает заниматься UX. Поэтому давайте изучим:Если вы изучили базовый курс до текущего момента, вы уже поняли, что UX — это айсберг: та часть, которую мы видим, — лишь небольшая доля существующей проблемы.Прежде чем начать, прочитайте, Wireframe — это технический документ, как, например, представленный выше (но не обязательно такой же “симпатичный”). Линии, блоки, подписи. Возможно, пара цветовых акцентов. И все!Wireframe часто сравнивают со строительным проектом-светокопией, потому что у них похожее назначение.Проект подсказывает строителям, как выполнить замысел архитектора. В нем не указывается, какие выбрать обои или мебель. Проект воспринимают серьезно. Про него никогда не скажут, что это просто предложение по строительству, или грубый черновик, или быстрый скетч.Все эти наброски, выполненные на доске во время мозговых штурмов, конечно же, важны, но это не wireframe-ы. Это мысли и идеи для wireframe-ов, которые будут созданы позднее.Иногда рисование wireframe-а занимает лишь час, а вот его планирование происходит неделями. Важно, чтобы ваши коллеги и клиенты это понимали.Если UI-разработчик или UI-дизайнер не может использовать ваш “wireframe”, то это просто скетч, а не wireframe. Продолжайте работу.Может показаться, что урок какой-то неполный. Тем не менее, мне бы хотелось закончить. Следующие 12 уроков (почти половина этого курса) улучшат ваши навыки разработки wireframe-ов, помогая вам создать дизайн, который не просто Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

← (Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Когда приходится долго изучать мышление людей, постепенно начинаешь теряться в глубоких философских вопросах. Обычно я стараюсь избегать таких вопросов, но есть один из них, который поможет вам лучше понять ваши цели:Наверное мы с вами могли бы вечно говорить об опыте в философском смысле, но я не собираюсь учить вас философии. Что касается UX, нам нужны Поэтому давайте смотреть на опыт с точки зрения Именно об этом трещат Желания пользователя гораздо важнее, но их сложнее описать. Мотивация — это двигатель всех действий пользователя. Все, что они делают: кликают, выбирают, покупают, и даже то, что они слышат и видят, зависит от того, чего они хотят. Как говорится, Давайте представим Убеждения людей — хитрая штука. А вот Забавно, но почти все дизайнеры забывают об этой части восприятия. Люди не запоминают события и информацию целиком (например, мы не помним просмотренные видео ролики сначала и до конца). Зачастую, память играет с нами злую шутку: мы запоминаем только отдельные куски, со временем модифицируем воспоминания, а иногда даже помним то, чего и вовсе не было! При помощи дизайна вы сможете сами определять, какая информация запомнится пользователям, а какая — нет.UX-дизайнеры должны также создавать элементы, которые никто не заметит, не прокомментирует и даже никогда не вспомнит. Но это и хорошо! К сожалению, ни один клиент никогда не отметит такие элементы где-нибудь на совещании — ведь он их тоже не заметит. Эти элементы дизайна повлияют на действия пользователя, но вот как? Это покажут только Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

Today it occurred to me, there is one I’m talking about the way users interact with the apps. When a user opens up Instagram, they are presented with a feed. This is a passive UX; I believe Instagram is passive for a reason. They want users to enjoy their feed, like posts, and share posts. On the opposing end, Snapchat directs users straight to the camera Recognize and position your app to one side or the other. Vine is similar to Snapchat in that they require the use of their product to post media. However, they are currently sporting a very passive UX,showing users a feed before the camera. Founder, designer at getontracks.com. Previously GrubHub, Samsung. Studied 

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Работая над своими дизайнами, вы обязательно столкнетесь с необходимостью запрашивать информацию у пользователя. Поэтому сегодня мы вихрем пронесемся по теме:Формы — это та область дизайна, на которую вы потратите много времени, и все ради юзабилити. Формы вечно вызывают у пользователей недопонимания, ошибки, потерю интереса к происходящему, а еще формы — это одна из самых ценных частей вашего дизайна.А если они не являются для вас одной из самых ценных частей дизайна, то зачем же вы их используете? Вы же слышали меня: они вызывают недопонимания, ошибки и потерю заинтересованности.Один из самых распространенных вопросов, возникающих у UX-дизайнеров и прочих маркетинговых ребят — “Какой длины должна быть форма?”Как правило, чем короче форма, тем лучше. Но не бойтесь разбивать ее на несколько страниц, когда в этом есть смысл, или когда вы хотите пошагово сохранять данные, на случай, если пользователь покинет страницу где-то в середине процесса заполнения.Главное, чтобы форма Цель формы — это ввод — т.е. информация от пользователя. И получить ее вы можете несколькими способами. Не важно, используете ли вы обычный текстовый ввод или супер-индивидульный слайдер, — вы должны выбирать тот тип ввода, который дает вам максимально качественные ответы.Пример: Допустим, вам нужно, чтобы пользователь выбрал его любимую породу коз. Выбрать опцию из списка можно, например, при помощи чекбоксов (флажков, галочек) или радиокнопок (переключателей). Однако, с помощью чекбоксов можно выбрать более одной опции, а вот радиокнопка позволяет сделать только один выбор.Если вам важно, чтобы ответ был полным, выбирайте чекбоксы. Если вы хотите, чтобы пользователь был избирательнее, вам больше подойдут радиокнопки.О том, как Когда вы добавляете к полям ввода метки с подсказками — а как еще узнать, что там писать? — пусть они будут краткими, вразумительными и предельно ясными. По большому счету, это должно решить 99% проблем с метками.Иногда, когда вопрос неоднозначный или сложный, инструкции просто необходимы. В таких случаях, объяснение не помешает. Если инструкция умещается в несколько слов, разметите ее рядом с меткой и полем ввода. Если объяснение длиннее, разместите его сбоку от формы (а не Очень рекомендую книгу Люка В. — Когда дело касается форм, ошибки встречаются. Наша работа — предотвратить большую их часть, а с оставшимися разобраться как можно элегантнее.Можно предотвратить ошибки, сделав поля ввода “умнее”. К примеру, если текстовое поле предназначено для номера телефона, убедитесь что оно может умно трансформироваться в “(000) 000–0000” или “000 000 0000” или “0000000000” или “000.000.0000”. (Поговорите об этом с вашими разработчиками).Подсказывая пользователю, какую информацию вы ожидаете в данном поле, вы уменьшаете количество ошибок. Ваша подсказка может как находиться в самом поле ввода, так и быть частью инструкций к вопросу.Когда пользователь пропускает вопрос или ошибается, вы должны его предупредить, чтобы он мог исправиться. Если вы можете проверить правильность введенной информации, отображайте рядом с полем галочку или крестик (в зависимости от того, правильно или неправильно введены данные). Это называется исправлением ошибок При помощи этого inline-метода обычно проверяется надежность введенного пароля (“слабый”/“надежный”).Не нужно использовать inline-метод исправления ошибок, если вы не можете проверить правильность введенных данных, как, например, в случае с именем человека.Когда пользователь нажимает “Далее” или “Готово”, вы можете проверить форму на предмет ошибок или пропущенных вопросов. Если что-то не в порядке, очень доходчиво — при помощи визуальных приемов — сообщите пользователю, Вы задаете пользователям общие вопросы, типа “Имя” и “Адрес”, или более специфические, скажем: “Какая твоя любимая картина из бархата?” Если ваши вопросы общие, располагайте метки В случае нестандартных или сложных вопросов, используйте форму с метками Как правило, кнопку “Готово” следует размещать слева, на оси взаимодействия формы.Но если заполнение формы может привести к каким-то критическим или разрушительным последствиям, то расположите кнопку справа. В этом случае, люди на секунду “притормозят” в поисках кнопки, вместо того, чтобы нажать ее автоматически.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

Calma, o título desse post é apenas uma metáfora.Pra começar, dá uma olhada no vídeo abaixo:Através de sensores e smart objects espalhados pela casa, o usuário é capaz de configurar algumas “regras” que acontecem automaticamente assim que ele se aproxima de um dos sensores ou entra em determinado cômodo. Como acender a luz do banheiro automaticamente assim que seu smartphone se aproxima, por exemplo.Legal.Agora dá uma olhada nesse aqui:Um robô inteligente que realiza as mesmas funções que seu smartphone (tirar fotos, fazer ligações via vídeo, ler mensagens em voz alta, receber comandos de voz e muitas outras funcionalidades – mas tudo isso envelopado em um casco de robô com movimento e “personalidade” próprios.Muito se fala em conhecer e entender o contexto de uso dos produtos na hora de desenhá-los. Ainda mais para quem trabalha com UX. Afinal, você é a pessoa dentro do time responsável porExistem muitos fatores no contexto de uso que acabam afetando a forma pela qual as pessoas experienciam determinado produto. A hora do dia, o dia da semana, a localização geográfica, o ambiente, as pessoas em volta, a configuração física do espaço onde a interação acontece – e a lista é grande.São fatores sobre os quais a empresa que cria o produto não possui muito controle, mas isso não é necessariamente o problema. O ponto é que nos últimos anos (e certamente nos próximos), mais e mais experiências passam a depender do contexto de uso para funcionarem bem. Fatores e tendências como Mais um vídeo para setar o tom da conversa:Aliás, dê uma olhada nos cases recentes de Mas se você trabalha dentro de uma empresa, que fica dentro de um prédio, que fica em uma zona comercial de uma grande cidade, como é que você vai entender o modo como as pessoas interagem com o celular assim que saem da cama?Bom, sentado em sua cadeira é que não é. Já falei por aqui sobre formas de Mas estamos chegando Em um ponto onde você não precisa simplesmente “sair da sua mesa e ir até onde o usuário utiliza o produto” para conseguir testá-lo.Estamos chegando em um ponto onde muitas vezes compensa mais você Não se trata de mandar um caminhão de mudança instalar sua mesa, computador e samambaia na cozinha de uma dona-de-casa para desenhar o aplicativo de celular enquanto ela cozinha o feijão. Assim como os produtos que desenhamos, as próprias estações de trabalho que utilizamos para o fazê-lo Designers (especialmente de UX) dependem cada vez menos de lugares físicos para trabalhar. E dependem cada vez mais de inputs dos usuários para conseguir projetar experiências que sejam realmente relevantes para aquele específico contexto de uso.A soma dessas dependências faz com que muitos designers optem por um arsenal de ferramentas mais “móvel” na hora de trabalhar. MacBooks Air, Smartphones, Tablets, post-its, whiteboards sobre rodas, war rooms, google hangouts, dropbox, acesso VPN a redes de arquivos – cada vez mais o designer está preparado para depender menos de “estar dentro do escritório para conseguir trabalhar”.As mesmas ferramentas que viabilizam o tal “home office” também podem viabilizar o “contextual office”.Outro caminho, tomado por algumas empresas, é o recriar completamente a configuração de seus escritórios e ambientes de trabalho para se adaptarem a essa mudança.Um exemplo recente é layout do novo escritório da Barbarian Group, aqui em NY – um espaço desenhado para que os designers tenham menos assentos “fixos” dentro do prédio e passem mais tempo em momentos de colaboração com outros membros do time.Cada vez menos computadores desktop, cada vez mais laptops. Cada vez menos assentos fixos e cada vez mais espaços que promovem o “encontro” entre diferentes disciplinas para que as pessoas colaborem mais.Em outros casos, as empresas montam verdadeiros laboratórios dentro do seu espaço para Dá uma olhada no Grandes empresas estão investindo cada vez mais em espaços como esse para testar ideias de produtos o quanto antes. Muitas vezes ideias que parecem lindas no PPT acabam se mostrando um fracasso quando chega a “hora da verdade” de testar em ambientes físicos. Melhor descobrir isso logo.Diferentes de websites que são visualizados em computadores desktop, nesses produtos que mostrei como exemplo no início do post o contexto de uso tem influência muito maior em como será aPor isso mesmo pouco adianta os designers passarem dias, às vezes semanas aperfeiçoando aquilo que será exibido dentro da tela se eles não levam em conta o contexto de uso.Aliás, grande parte da experiência Então quando digo que “o UX Designer precisa trabalhar de pé” ali no título do artigo, leia Não existe uma opção melhor que a outra entre essas que listei durante o post, mas existe a capacidade do designer em transitar entre elas e realizar um bom trabalho em qualquer um desses ambientes. E claro: de preferência, com usuários em volta ☺Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

We can do better than this. Imagine what the iCar would look like?Leading a new product initiative at Facebook and investing in early-stage startups at Betaworks. Previously CEO and a Founder of Branch.

Пару недель назад все СМИ облетела новость об окто-коптерах компании Amazon, которые через год с небольшим будут развозить небольшие посылки по домохозяйствам США. На сайте появится новый вид доставки — не более 30 минут. Будущее уже почти сегодня! Мало того, об аналогичных нововведениях написали и другие компании, которые специализируются на быстрой доставке грузов с небольшим весом.Не буду поднимать тему новых возможности для терроризма (коптер, конечно, весьма удобен для доставки тротила), а также о том, что нам явно предстоит изменение правил использования воздушного пространства не только в США, но во всем мире. Также можно легко представить доставку товара дроном внутрь частного сектора, в так называемую одноэтажную Америку. А вот задача сделать тоже самое в условиях мегаполиса выглядит существенно сложнее.В данной статье я хочу сфокусироваться на теме появления новых возможности для eCommerce, а также о последствиях этих возможностей.Давайте вспомним, какой новый User Experience нам принес App Store и iTunes Store. Цепочка «захотел купить — купил — наслаждаешься покупкой» стала отнимать всего несколько секунд, что произвело настоящую революцию в области eCommerce программных продуктов и цифрового контента. Такое потребление провоцирует на эксперимент, особенно, когда стоимость потребляемого продукта не высока, а также имеется возможность отменить покупку и вернуть деньги. Также это провоцирует на спонтанные и ненужные покупки и требует от пользователя повышенной потребительской дисциплины.Любой человек быстро привыкает к хорошему, а особенно быстро он привыкает к новой скорости взаимодействия, т.е. в нашем случае к скорости покупки. После того, как пользователь привык к новой скорости, для него будет мукой возвращаться на старую. Об этом эффекте хорошо написал Стивен Сеов в своей книге Вернемся к коптерам — 30 минут доставки сделают с eCommerce материальных товаров примерно тоже самое, что сделал App Store для рынка приложений. Это приведет, естественно, к увеличению количества спонтанных покупок и к экспериментам среди потребителей. Однако это сулит дополнительные преимущества для потребителей. Культура TryBuy, принятая в мире цифрового контента, перекинется на потребительские товары и станет стандартом де-факто. Ведь товар можно вернуть также легко, как и получить — заказывайте коптер и он унесет вашу покупку обратно.Можно предположить, что все это кардинально повысит уровень конкуренции, причем сразу по нескольким фронтам.Во-первых, конкуренция ожесточится среди брендов — потребители будут покупать сразу несколько однотипных товаров, чтобы после периода тестовой эксплуатации выбрать самый подходящий.Во-вторых среди интернет магазинов — не все смогут обзавестись необходимой инфраструктурой доставки, особенно на первых порах, пока технология слишком дорога ( DHL объявила, что ее коптеры будут стоить порядка $30 000). Особенно большой прессинг будет оказан на небольшие интернет магазины, которые продают уникальные товары. Кроме того, небольшим магазинам будет сложно поддерживать политику возврата товаров.Однако рынок, как всегда, найдет выход из любой ситуации: мне, кажется, появятся специальные компании, которые будут предоставлять магазинам коптеры, а также будут страховать от частых возвратов товаров потребителями. Также часть расходов за возврат товара, наверняка, возьмут на себя бренды.Чрезвычайно любопытно посмотреть, что, в конце концов, получится из этой идеи, ждать осталось недолго!Работаю в компании Flexis главным по User Experience

Let me tell you a story…It all started with a very simple goal: I wanted to buy a birthday gift for my dad. Now, I live in the US and my dad lives in Uruguay, but with Internet and credit cards that should not be a problem, right? Right?!After some web surfing I found the site of a Uruguayan company that sells weekend escapes for couples. Not only do they take online orders but they also accept credit cards (or so they say). Sweet! Happy to have found a winner, I started the shopping process: I picked a weekend escape, I filled out my personal information and when I hit ‘Next’ –expecting a page where I could enter my credit card info­­– I got a confirmation page that read something like “Thank you for your purchase. You will receive an email with payment instructions.” Weird.I checked my email and indeed I had a message from this company explaining how to proceed: I could conveniently pay with a money order at my local authorized store, or make a payment using my bank account. The credit card option was nowhere to be found, so I called them for assistance (international phone call #1). It turned out that despite the fact that their site states that they accept credit cards, the answer I received from the customer service lady was “that feature is being implemented and is not yet available”. Awesome.I still have a bank account in Uruguay, so I decided to try that payment method only to realize that since I had not used my account in such a long time, I could not remember my password. I tried three possibilities and my account got blocked. The ‘Forgot password’ feature does not work while an account is blocked, so I decided to call my bank’s customer service number (international phone call #2). The representative asked me for my ID number, my date of birth and a security question (that I answered correctly). Everything checked, so she unlocked my account. Great. However, the ‘Forgot password’ feature was still not working (?) so I asked her if she could give me a temporary password. Her answer blew my mind: “Our security policy demand that you make three more tries, and if your account gets blocked again you can call us back and we will give you a new temporary password.” I went back to my bank’s website, entered the word ‘bananas’ three times, my account got blocked again and I called them back literally 30 seconds later (international phone call #3). Since my account got blocked a second time, the protocol now authorized her to send me an email with a new temporary password. I received an email with a temporary password contained in a PDF attachment (?) and after 20 minutes and 2 phone calls I was finally able to access my bank account.I went back to the email from the company I was trying to buy the gift from and I clicked on the option for paying with my bank account. The link took me back to my bank’s account management page that I already had open. After a few minutes of wondering where to go next, I found a tab that read “e-payments”. When I clicked on it, I got a message saying that my account is not set up for this feature, call customer service to learn more, so I did (international phone call #4) only to find out that in order to use that feature, I need to show up at one of my bank’s physical locations with my ID to sign a contract. I explained that I am overseas and asked if there is a way to enable that feature over the phone, but there is not.I ended up getting my dad a bottle of scotch that I bought through a Uruguayan online store that accepts PayPal, after ultra-shaming the bank and the weekend escape company on Facebook.I had a bad user experience with both these organizations, and it had nothing to do with their site’s interface. (The weekend escapes company actually has a pretty nice looking, easy to use website.) False advertisement, senseless processes/policies, and bad customer service can ruin a user’s experience in a matter of minutes, and it is for this reason that when we think about UX, we must do so with a holistic approach. Everything that happens from the moment that someone decides to make a purchase, open an account or whatever your business’ goal is, matters.Working to make the world a more user-friendly place. Lead #UX consultant at 

Em época de longas baterias de entrevistas para contratar novos profissionais de UX, é comum parar um pouco para organizar os pensamentos e analisar: “É claro que essas habilidades variam muito de empresa para empresa, mas algumas delas são onipresentes em vários times de design no mercado (tanto em agência, em cliente, em consultoria, em produtora etc.).Penso que esses profissionais de nível junior e pleno são um bom termômetro do que está acontecendo no mercado. Normalmente não são exigidos deles habilidades como contato com cliente, apresentações ou definição de estratégia de marca – o que faz com que eles fiquem bem focados no “craft”, no desenvolvimento do trabalho.Olhando para o job description desses caras é possível entender:Abaixo algumas habilidades comumente procuradas:Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

As a UXNight regular (this was my 9th time attending), I find the event to be a tremendous value for designers of all levels. Here’s a recap of my experience from UXNight on Wednesday, April 8th at Eventbrite HQ.For the first part of the event, 30 pre-selected senior designers mentored designers, developers or anyone who wanted to participate. Each design mentor has a unique background including Visual Design, UX Research, Strategy, Entrepreneurship, and UX Design. Participants signed up for two 20-minute sessions, and asked anything from design feedback on an app, product or portfolio or even career guidance or advice.For those not being mentored, the event offers activities to keep everyone entertained, including the new “Inspiration Station”. Designated tables are covered in drawing paper so attendees can sit down, interact with each other, and sketch ideas.Another new addition to the event is a “Headshot Photo Station”. Photographer, Lead designers from Eventbrite’s UX, Product Design, and Brand-Communication teams presented the inside-scoop on the lean, yet powerful teams within their organization. We also learned about some of the current projects they are working on and got a strong sense of their fun team culture.One of the standouts of the presentation was Product Designer Josh Price’s explanation of Eventbrite’s YES Campaign. What I took away was the importance of a company’s voice being interjected into a product.The YES Campaign emphasized that Eventbrite users are makers  movers, that they love trying new things and they do what they love. This ties in closely to Eventbrite’s mission of “bringing together the world through live experiences”, and serving users that are “passionate, curious, and driven”. Eventbrite has their mission and voice nailed, and this clear strategy is so key in their success.Author For May’s #UXNight, 

Ancient cultures learned about their world through storytellers. They learned about their gods and devils through ceremonies, rituals, performances — that is, experiences. Without being able to read, these experiences were the only way to learn how to be a good person in the eyes of the gods. They had to be accurate. Every tiny element had to support the stories and teachings. One didn’t dare distract the congregation with meaningless props, words, characters, movement, or costumes when teaching people how to avoid angering Zeus or avoid turning into a pillar of salt. Telling the right story was a matter of life, death, and eternal rivers of fiery damnation.We still learn through experiences, but now they are mostly digital. And small. And getting smaller. They don’t fill an amphitheater or a cathedral. They fit in the palm of our hands or even sit on our wrists, which makes the stakes even higher for the storyteller. The smaller the space, the more amplified every element becomes — for both good and bad. We might not be preaching gospel, but the experience is just as important. You are asking them to read, explore, touch, swipe. That’s a privilege, and with great power comes great responsibility. You have their attention so don’t be “That Guy.”“That Guy” is the one who annoys everyone by showing off. Stealing focus. Being over the top. As a designer, That Guy annoys the user by “acting” like their product or message is exciting. They spend a lot of time showing how exciting they are instead of concentrating on who’s on the other end. The posing and prancing upstages the real message. If you want the user to be excited — don’t “be exciting.” Make *them* feel excited. It’s a subtle difference but one that makes all the difference. “Acting” fun, popular, funny — it never works in the real world and it doesn’t work in design. It makes your app look fake and sad, just like your fake British accent. When we take the focus off ourselves as fancy pants designers, and think about what the user really needs, elegance appears. Making your user feel young and vibrant — dedication to the user’s desires, not your ego — has potential to engage them.The literal meaning of “upstaging” describes when an actor moves upstage (up towards the back wall), therefore forcing the other actors to turn their backs to the audience. When you make your user sign up for something to get to content, or sit through exceptionally long, irrelevant ads, it’s annoying. You are forcing them turn in a direction they don’t want to go in. And they know you’re doing it on purpose. Not cool, man. Not. Cool.Shakespeare didn’t always write in verse. He often wrote in prose and only turned to formal verse when the message was so important, the emotion so high, that it could only be communicated in poetry. Broadway musical actors should only burst into song when the story and the emotions demand it. Use animations the same way. It’s singing for the sake of singing and it’s weird. It’s annoying, it’s distracting, and it’s why people hate lots of Broadway musicals. They’ll think “ooh look at that catchy song or that bouncing thingamabobber on my screen!” and forget your message.So how do you decide to use animation or not? Can you tell the story without it? Then probably no. What seems contrary is that animation does not encourage interaction. Animations should be a reward for interaction, not the other way around. Videos that start automatically upon loading (I’m looking at you, Yahoo Screen) are horribly annoying. Anyone that’s gotten in a NY cab knows what happens when the loud video starts playing. In the cab — and I can say this with certainty — the video does encourage interaction — frantically poking the shut up and go away buttons as fast as humanly possible.So — when do you need to sing your message rather than give a speech? Well, an example of a site that needs to sing their message Oakley’s Airbrake Goggles campaign:Oakley knows their customers kick up mud and rocks. Using animation, the impact of their product message strikes right, literally, in the face of their user. The page makes them feel like they’ll be protected. The exploding pair of goggles showing the components of protection breaks down the technology proving that the user will be protected. It doesn’t say “DUDE LOOK HOW MY COOL ANIMATION IS! LOOK HOW COOL OAKLEY IS FOR USING THE PARALLAX OF ALL PARALLAXES!” Oakley’s hardcore customers are serious about their fun and more advanced protection means they can push their limits farther. Dangerous flying rocks actually flying in their face communicates the message. Lesson: use animations for good, not evil. Or don’t use them at all. You risk your users coming away with bad show tunes in their head which makes everyone unhappy.There is an old saying that performers should never work with kids and animals. They cannot be controlled. They will do what they want, when they want, and probably when you really need them to do something else. Unfortunately, as mobile designers, there are millions of factors about the experience we can’t control. From environmental distractions to basic reception issues, it’s out of our hands and in the palm of theirs. Connections will drop. Automatic notifications will distract from your experience. What are you gonna do? Design for the inevitable. Just like the goat will eventually crap on your stage, their network connection will crap out on your app. If (hopefully when) your user re-opens your app, do they have to log in again? Is any of their info saved? Or have you just left them with a pile of goat crap?Upstaging, jerky actors have an old trick to pull focus away from their cast mates. They deliberately place a glass on a table like this:WHY DID THEY PUT THAT THERE LIKE THAT?! WAS THAT A MISTAKE?! I CAN’T STOP LOOKING AT IT! SRSLY ZOMG! IT IS GOING TO SPILL ANY SECOND!! WHY IS THIS HAPPENING TO ME AND I CAN’T EVEN REMEMBER WHY I AM HERE?! Don’t have your users deciding if something on your site is a mistake or it has a bigger purpose. Are they supposed to be looking at it? Is the potential spill a part of the message?Take this site fromEvery time I see this layout, all I can think about is the purple. Even though I’ve seen it referenced at least 5 times, I *always* have the following thought: “Oh, I accidentally have text selected. How did I do that? Wait — it’s not all selected. Oh, that’s a design choice. Hm.” Also — every time I try and reference the site to a friend and can’t find it, I have to look up “wait, which politician is that about?” Yes, I did it for this post too.Now let’s be clear — I’m very familiar with ‘ol Jeb and his shenanigans. But for the life of me, the purple highlighted text gets me every damn time. I don’t remember who it is or what it said. All I remember is the “is that selected text” hiccup, not the content. Every damn time.Think about the things you push to the edge of the design table and if the choice supports the message or not. Otherwise your users will get distracted, asking “what” and “why” and “how” and “wtf?!” You’ve just upstaged your message again, even if you didn’t do it on purpose. Or did you? Or didn’t you? I CANNOT THINK ABOUT ANYTHING ELSE!What happens after the performance is also a part of the user’s experience. Some ancient cultures believed that gods were invoked and brought down into the performance/worship space. Applause at the end released the deities from the sacred space that had been created. For the audience, clapping was used as a confirmation that the gods were here among us, it was good, and they could go home now. Without applause, the gods would hang around and make trouble. When designing, don’t forget about acknowledgement. Remember to use appropriate confirmations to thank and reassure the user that all is well. They initiated that action successfully — yep. Give them a little animation or color change to make sure they know they are on the right track. Send them a well-designed confirmation email if they bought something from you or signed up for your newsletter.Kate Spade’s email subscription confirmation feels sweet and personal. It’s just nice manners.When designers stop showing how friggin’ awesome they are and just design useful things for their awesome users, they’ll be doing the gods’ work and the user will be thankful for the experience.UX Designer with a past in org building, PR,  roller derby. A recovered actor/singer with a BFA and a Minor in Religion. Enthusiastic champion of the “why?”

We have a firm belief that because of the many decisions being made during the production process, it’s imperative that everyone understands the “why” behind those decisions. Going one step further, the real aim of researching users is to help us empathize with them, and understand what users love or hate both inside and outside the application.This means not just visualizing who the user is, but to really get a grasp on understanding their traits, how they’ll use the application, and what they envision the application to be. We use a variety of methods to gain that knowledge and though some are effective all of the time (I’m looking at you, user personas), some are used on a product to product basis. To name just a few, they are:Now you’re probably asking yourself why getting user feedback and input is so necessary, here are four key reasons for why “getting out the building” is insanely important for a project’s success:All of the points mentioned above and more ultimately help you discover and create features based on ACTUAL insights from users. Products ship and fail because they assume what customers want instead of going out and asking them. The Mad Men days where you determine what customers want are over. Today, you need to create something (or fall into something) that customers truly have a need for, and user insights are one of the best ways to discover just that.You also only have so much time in a project and the product has to ship eventually. User research helps us determine and define a roadmap or scope of the project. If features and scope negatively impact each other and you can’t get more time, you need to determine what features are critical for a first release and what can be pushed back.Finally (I mean, let’s face it) user research and testing just ends up creating better user experiences. Which in truth really is the Holy Grail we search for in our work; making amazing digital experiences for people. It’s also something that we strive towards collectively as a team and are not satisfied with until we get it right.This was originally posted at: Reader of the Internet.

Trabalho a 5 anos com desenvolvimento em Java para web e nesse período passei por 4 empresas onde vi sistemas que funcionam, sistemas com boa usabilidade e design e com muitos conceitos antigos, que foram criados através da cultura das empresas e seus clientes.Um certo dia, surgiu uma oportunidade, na empresa onde trabalho hoje, de assumir um projeto novo e inovador. Cansado desses conceitos e a mesma cara dos sistema comecei a pensar em como mudar. Fiz a base do sistema com o layout antigo e saí de férias. Estudei bastante a respeito de front-end, e aprendi como melhorar e voltei cheio de ideias. Quando comecei a aplica-las, todos me disseram, “cuidado, você está mudando muito, está fora dos padrões!”. Ótimo, era exatamente o que queria e junto com um profissional de edição de imagens, tornei as telas muito mais próximas do mundo real, ficando muito mais intuitivo. Resultado? O pessoal adorou e o sistema é visto como referência aqui na empresa.E então percebi que não adianta termos um sistema incrivelmente bem arquitetado por trás, se na frente o usuário não recebe o que precisa, da forma que precisa. Ele vai tentar um pouco e logo se cansar e vai voltar a fazer o que fazia antes, pois para ele é mais fácil, está mais acostumado.Depois da descoberta comecei a me aprofundar no assunto e fazer diversos testes, sempre pensando no usuário e não no trabalho e tempo que teria para implementar aquela funcionalidade, afinal o que faz uma boa aplicação é a experiência do usuário. E ano passado com a lançamento do livro de “Introdução e Boas Práticas em UX Design” do Fabrício Teixeira que passei a conhecer o termo UX e quais eram atividades do profissional. Achei o máximo e venho estudando a respeito, desde então.O que é UX para mim como desenvolvedor? UX para mim é o que trará valor para o que estou desenvolvendo no back-end e fará com que dê certo ou não, é o que vai fazer a diferença entre o sucesso o fracasso e o que vai fazer com que minha aplicação se destaque das outras. Uma boa UX conquista usuários, faz com que eles usem meu sistema por quererem e não por terem que usar e também é capaz de mudar aos poucos a cultura das empresas, seus clientes/usuários e como se relacionam.Se você quiser fazer a diferença, nunca aceite um não, nunca aceite um “isso não vai dar certo”, até você tentar. E se não der, ótimo, serviu de lição de qualquer forma. Errar é bom, ruim é não tentar, pois você nunca saberá se daria certo ou não.Conceitos de UX podem ser levados para qualquer lugar, inclusive no código que desenvolvo, para que fique bem organizado, bem estruturado, fácil de ler e entender, facilitando muito meu dia a dia, afinal além de outros desenvolvedores, também sou usuário do meu código.E quanto a mim? Se vou sair do desenvolvimento ou não, ainda não sei, só o tempo poderá dizer. Apenas sei que quero continuar proporcionando excelente experiências para as pessoas e transformando o mundo para melhor.Usabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

Recently I’ve become increasingly curious about the current state of the local UX community in Melbourne. A prime example are the burgeoning number of UX meetups occurring on a regular basis.This year I stumbled on Looking at those running events in the local community, I see some amazing UX advocates, but also see a great deal of fragmentation, cross-purposes, and differing agendas. Not sure I know what to do about it yet, but I guess step 1 is admitting we’ve got a problem…The original UX Book Club idea was formed by Steve Baty and others late in 2008. The idea was that people could get together to talk about their favourite user experience books, and get different viewpoints on the book.The idea for UX Movie Nights came from wanting a regular, simple (low cost, easy to run), get together where people working in and around the field of user experience in Melbourne could chat and swap notes on work, projects, life, the universe, etc…Interested in learning more about user experience (UX) design? We run free information nights, paid workshops, and social events for anyone looking to learn about usability, user research, interaction design, information architecture, and whatever else falls under the UX umbrella. Whether you’re just getting started or a UX seasoned pro, we can help you get better and manage your career.The purpose of the Service Design Network Melbourne (SDNMelbourne) is to foster and support knowledge sharing on human-centred approaches and outcomes of design through invited speakers, workshops and informal conversations. It is a non-commercial network, focusing on building a community of interest and practice in this area to actively create a space for idea exchange and learn about projects, challenges and opportunities in Australia.Irregular catch-upThis group is for web practitioners and other professionals who are interested in web accessibility and inclusive design practices. This group is about regularly connecting Melbourne’s accessibility community, allowing us to share our knowledge, network and exchange ideas.Official Melbourne chapter of the Interaction Design Association.Let’s get together to drink coffee and talk about anything and everything Agile, UX, Lean, Scrum, whatever! We’ve started this group to meet more like-minded people in the area as previously this meetup has just been with fellow MYOB team mates.This group is for anyone interested in gaining and sharing practical knowledge of User Experience Design.Melbourne Geek Night (twitter An informal get-together for people who work in the web industry around Melbourne to catch-up, have a yarn, share ideas and talk about new techniques and technologies.Social Media Melbourne, affectionately known as socialmelb, is an open community of passionate and inspirational Melburnians interested and/or working in the digital or social media space, usually connecting early Friday mornings through coffee.CreativeMornings is a breakfast lecture series for the creative community one Friday morning a month. Every event would be free of charge and open to anyone.The general idea is to gather Melbourne based product managers  people who are interested in product mgmt for a monthly (or so) meetup.Ladies that UX is an informal get-together of talented and intelligent women working or interested in the user/customer/experience/service design space. #LTUX meet-ups are all about building relationships, both professional and personal, with other women in the design community and finding the support and encouragement you need over good food and wine!Monday nights monthlyThe Melbourne chapter of Mobile Monday! Join us for monthly networking and discussion panels with mobile industry insiders. Mobile Monday Melbourne is typically held on the second Monday evening each month from March to November as a networking event for the mobile industry. We are a not for profit industry organisation and one of over 120 Mobile Monday chapters in major cities around the world. This open community promotes the mobile industry and fosters innovation, growth and networking among industry people and their companies by providing opportunities for personal and virtual contacts.User Experience (UX) manager, reluctant coffee snob, fisherman, and baseball fanatic.

Alô, UX designers! Alô, desenvolvedores! O futuro ainda não chegou, mas o presente está aqui, te chamando pelo nome, mais do que pronto para te surpreender. É hora de derrubar as paredes das baias imaginárias que separam as duas expertises e entender, de uma vez por todas, que desenvolvimento e design devem andar juntos e, se possível, de mãos dadas. Os projetos agradecem.A solução para isso já existe há algum tempo e é chamada de Mas, para quem não manja nada disso, ou conhece mais ou menos, ou ainda para quem já domina o assunto, mas sempre acha que tem algo a aprender, este texto será um espaço para trocarmos ideia sobre a metodologia. Oferecidos que somos, emprestamos parte da nossa rotina de cobaia, para que você tenha um exemplo próximo de como o Lean UX pode ser aplicado.Em linhas gerais, Lean UX é uma forma de trazer de volta a essência do nosso trabalho ao foco original, de onde ele nunca deveria ter saído: E como é que ele faz isso? Dando menos ênfase aos entregáveis, às grandes conclusões “empacotadas” e à lógica “linha de produção”, que, ao que parece, ainda é predominante nas agências e departamentos de marketing.A quantidade de entregáveis (Sitemap, Fluxograma, Wireframes) independe. O principal Porém, o maior Entender minimamente o trabalho que complementa o seu facilita a comunicação entre os times. E para o Lean UX, Primeiro porque a comunicação flui melhor em times menores. E, segundo, porque mudar culturas consolidadas e estimuladas por anos não é tarefa fácil. Mas também não é impossível — nada que o combo conhecimento + experiência + paciência não resolva. Amém?O Lean UX é uma metodologia colaborativa. Ou seja, todos as pessoas do time são envolvidas no planejamento das funcionalidades de um software. E, assim como já falamos bem ali em cima, o resultado dessa combinação é um maior entrosamento entre os profissionais e mais agilidade em todas as camadas do processo.Estudando para escrever este texto, descobrimos que esse tal entrosamento é um dos grandes gargalos profissionais das ~pessoas de UX~. Mas a nossa prática aqui na Nós aderimos ao Lean UX antes mesmo de saber o que isso significa. As metodologias ágeis fazem parte dos nossos processos desde o princípio e a UX sempre esteve inclusa nisso.Nossa experiência com o modelo cascata foi mínima e, também por isso, para nós Lean UX é uma prática tão natural quanto ligar o computador para projetar uma interface, que nos proporciona maior participação de todos nas decisões importantes do projeto. Que nos permite sugerir, palpitar, participar e colaborar com outras áreas, e receber esse engajamento de volta, dos outros membros da equipe.Os detalhes dependem das especificidades de cada projeto, mas, geralmente, adotamos o design como uma etapa do A efetividade da nossa comunicação ajuda muito nesse processo. O Slack e o A nossa dica para quem quer começar a usar o Lean UX é pensar na UX como parte do desenvolvimento. Conhecemos duas formas de fazer isso:A escolha do melhor formato depende da velocidade e da sinergia entre as pessoas. Mas o mais importante continua sendo fazer com que as duas equipes Outra coisa que merece atenção especial é o aproveitamento dos feedbacks, que surgem internamente e contribuem para a evolução do time e do projeto, mas que também podem vir de análises de métricas importantes.Ao invés da realização de pesquisas de pré elaboração do protótipo, o Lean UX aconselha análises de métricas contínuas, recolhidas de métodos como teste A/B, entrevista com clientes e testes de usabilidade.O primeiro quadro mostra a solução ideal, que é chegar ao objetivo final de primeira, sem falhas de percurso. A gente sabe que a realidade passa bem longe disso, como mostra o segundo quadro.Mas é o terceiro quadrante que salta ao nossos olhos. Ele nos mostra que, com a aplicação da técnica, os feedbacks do time, do cliente e do usuário não só fazem parte do processo, como contribuem ativamente para que o projeto alcance o resultado desejado.Opa! Ainda tem fôlego para mais leitura? Maravilha, porque temos sugestões ótimas para você:Desenvolvemos aplicativos web e mobile. Conversamos sobre aplicativos bacanas, novidades no mundo da tecnologia e ux. 

Novembro é o mês de aniversário da Para isso, nos inspiramos no Você, que está chegando agora no Fabuloso Mundo do UX Design, poderá se inspirar com as repostas, descobrir coisas novas e perceber que temos muito em comum.E você, que já trabalha com UX há algum tempo, poderá se identificar com as histórias, conhecer gente nova e perceber que não está sozinho nesse mundo (oi, a gente está aqui com você).Quem inicia a série é a sócia e UX designer leader na Aerochimps, Nerd desde que se entende por gente e apaixonada pela profissão desde que a conheceu, Marcela é formada em Design Gráfico pela Universidade do Estado de Santa Catarina (UDESC) e trabalha com experiência do usuário há 4 anos.Bom… o resto ela mesma conta para vocês. ;)Em 2009, comecei um estágio em uma empresa que desenvolvia softwares para automação industrial em SCADA. Naquela época, nem se falava em UX aqui no Brasil.A empresa era bem pequena e o Design ficava como última camada. Eu era a única designer de lá e não tinha metade do conhecimento que tenho hoje.Eu desenhava em GIMP e tinha várias limitações impostas pelo próprio SCADA, mas foi um aprendizado enorme para um primeiro contato com a área. Saí de lá pra estudar em Buenos Aires, mas já fui sabendo que queria trabalhar com “web”. Naquela época eu entendia web como o contrário de impresso.Mas foi só em 2010, atuando como estagiária e posteriormente como designer contratada da Fundação CERTI, uma organização de pesquisa, desenvolvimento e serviços tecnológicos daqui de Florianópolis, que tive o primeiro contato com UX, Design Thinking, Contextual Design, Alan Cooper e etc. Pode-se dizer que os meus chefes não davam moleza, não.De um jeito ou de outro, sempre soube que trabalharia com tecnologia. Eu fui uma criança nerd, do tipo que desenhava websites com o Depois disso, tomei gosto pela coisa e acabei fazendo os meus próprios templates de blog e alguns sites de Pokémon e Dragon Ball Z.Na época do vestibular, eu estava em dúvida entre Ciências da Computação e Design. Não sabia quase nada sobre nenhuma das duas áreas, mas acabei optando por Design. A minha grande sina (e sorte) foi não saber desenhar muito bem e não ter muito jeito para trabalhos manuais. Além disso, eu ficava muito revoltada quando enviava um trabalho para a gráfica e ele voltava extremamente diferente do projeto.Quando tudo parecia perdido, descobri que Designers também trabalham com interfaces de aplicativos. E sabe do que mais? Eles não só desenham as interfaces, como também projetam a experiência que o usuário deve ter quando utilizar a solução. Não é genial? Essa descoberta mudou a minha vida profissional completamente. Desde então, nunca mais tive dúvidas.Meu projeto de conclusão de curso foi uma rede social de quadrinhos e meu TCC foi sobre TV Digital. Eu nunca vou me esquecer da minha primeira entrevista contextual, dos questionários, dos “achados de pesquisa”, das Mas vai além disso. Eu me sinto ajudando alguém ao desenvolver aplicativos nos quais o usuário vem antes e acima de tudo. Isso é muito maior e, na minha opinião, muito melhor do que apenas inserir marcas no mercado.É claro que para um aplicativo existir ele precisa gerar lucro. Mas eu acredito que a melhor forma de fazer isso é construir uma solução que seja útil para alguém. E ter que entender as dificuldades desse alguém para depois solucioná-las é, até hoje, o grande motivo de eu ser UX Designer.Eu tive a sorte de conviver com ótimos profissionais logo cedo. E eles, com certeza, são pessoas em quem eu me espelho até hoje.A Já as pessoas que não conheço pessoalmente, mas admiro pelo trabalho e pelos assuntos que trazem à tona estão Os livros que me marcaram foram o Eu considero as melhores experiências aquelas que permitem ao usuário cumprir seu objetivo com pouco ou nenhum esforço.Nesse sentido, são ótimos exemplos: o O Easy Taxi, então, é mão na roda. Tenta informar a um taxista o endereço de uma cidade que você não conhece para ver o quanto esse app é útil!Mantenha-se sempre atualizado. Seja lendo blogs ou livros, assistindo a vídeos ou baixando novos aplicativos. O mundo é gigante e tem um milhão de ótimas referências por aí.Ninguém é perfeito e, sim, você vai errar. Lembre-se que não tem problema recomeçar uma tarefa do início, que isso faz parte da evolução e a reconstrução é natural do processo de desenvolvimento de software.Ficou na dúvida sobre uma decisão? Procure um colega para te ajudar, de preferência aquele que acha que UX é uma marca de shampoo. Busque sempre validar tudo toda hora.Se você não tiver acesso fácil aos seus usuários, peça aos seus amigos menos nerds para ler em voz alta seus fluxos e interfaces antes de dar sequência ao desenvolvimento.Acima de tudo, seja aberto. Muitas vezes mudar de ares ou ouvir outras pessoas nos trazem ideias que nós nunca imaginaríamos sozinhos. E essa é a beleza da coisa: nunca deixar de aprender e querer sempre mais. UX Design é sobre as pessoas, então nada mais justo do que mantê-las sempre por perto.E por que não terminar com o maior clichê do mundo?Desenvolvemos aplicativos web e mobile. Conversamos sobre aplicativos bacanas, novidades no mundo da tecnologia e ux. By Aerochimps

Se você leu o nosso E, para comemorar com você, que é a razão de estarmos aqui toda semana, resolvemos, durante este mês, fazer uma mini-série de entrevistas com as pessoas por detrás desses textos e à frente da empresa, que completou três anos no dia 14. A ideia é responder por que fazemos o que fazemos.Você, que está chegando agora no Fabuloso Mundo do UX Design, poderá se inspirar com as repostas, descobrir coisas novas e perceber que temos muito em comum. E você, que já trabalha com UX há algum tempo, poderá se identificar com as histórias, conhecer gente nova e perceber que não está sozinho nesse mundo. Nós estamos aqui com você.O entrevistado de hoje é o nosso ilustríssimo UX Designer, Allan Carneiro.Formado em Design Gráfico pela Universidade do Estado de Santa Catarina (UDESC), ele tem um relacionamento sério com a User Experince há 2 anos. A paixão que surgiu de um livro se mantém forte até hoje.Mas chega de spoiler. Senhoras e senhores, com vocês: Allan Carneiro!Durante a graduação, tive várias experiências com Design Gráfico. Fiz estágio em algumas empresas de Santa Catarina. Mas chegou uma hora que essa área perdeu todo o sentido para mim, tanto academicamente como profissionalmente. Ver como o design era tratado na academia e por algumas empresas onde passei me desanimava.Então eu decidi ir atrás de livros e artigos na internet para encontrar algo no Design que me desse prazer em fazer. Eu queria usar o Design para ajudar as pessoas ou até mesmo vê-lo ser utilizado para facilitar a comunicação e a interação entre elas.Nessa busca, encontrei o livro “Design de Interação”, de Depois disso, vi que uma empresa procurava um estagiário com vontade de aprender sobre o assunto. Me candidatei. Quando fui aprovado para a vaga, fui surpreendido por uma equipe de designers, engenheiros, pesquisadores e profissionais de várias áreas que trabalhavam juntos, trocavam conhecimentos e, o mais importante de tudo, resolviam os problemas das pessoas. Foi aí que comecei a trabalhar com UX.A academia e os outros estágios que eu fiz não me satisfaziam mais, pois não tinham o usuário como foco principal dos projetos.Várias vezes eu projetei sozinho e executei tarefas apenas por que elas tinham que ser executadas. Fiz muitos trabalhos acadêmicos que, para mim, não tinham sentido algum, apenas para cumprir com a obrigação. Hoje eu sei que isso não é design.Acredito que no UX o trabalho em grupo é fundamental. A exploração, os testes, os erros e os acertos são necessários. Tudo isso que envolve essa área me encanta: poder conversar com as pessoas e descobrir seus problemas e necessidades, projetar com sentido e objetivo…Trabalhar com UX é trabalhar em time, é tocar e receber a bola para marcar o gol. É um jogo onde o resultado vale para o time todo e não só para um jogador. Isso me faz querer aprender cada vez mais sobre as pessoas e descobrir formas de trabalhar com suas experiências. Design tem que ter movimento, tem que ter testes, erros, acertos e resultado. Por isso UX.Gosto dos projetos da Mas as minhas referências favoritas são pessoas que desenvolvem produtos para sanar problemas comuns do cotidiano, como o brasileiro Também me inspiro nos meus colegas aqui da Além do “Design de Interação”, que comentei lá em cima, outro livro que me auxilia bastante nas minhas pesquisas é o Pode mais um? É o último, prometo. O Por falar em Gui Bonsiepe, tem uma frase que ele disse em uma palestra que me inspira até hoje: Acho o projeto “E-nabling the future” genial. Se trata de um movimento mundial formado por voluntários de todo o planeta: engenheiros, artistas, fisioterapeutas, designers, professores, entusiastas, famílias e pessoas comuns que querem fazer a diferença. A ideia é colaborativa e tem como objetivo distribuir conhecimento para a produção de próteses infantis de baixo custo, a partir da tecnologia de impressão 3D.Eu admiro essa iniciativa pois envolve uma equipe multidisciplinar, formada por profissionais do mundo inteiro, por pessoas de diferentes idades e classes sociais, que lutam para baratear o custo de uma prótese. E, melhor ainda, o projeto é focados nas crianças, que são os usuários. Vale assistir ao vídeo abaixo para entender melhor.O que posso dizer para quem está iniciando é: estuda o que te dá prazer para realmente aprender com os ensinamentos e com os erros. Errar foi, e ainda é, a maior lição que eu tive como profissional. Errar é sinal de que as ideias estão sendo testadas e praticadas. Não tenha medo disso. Para cada erro há um acerto.Desenvolvemos aplicativos web e mobile. Conversamos sobre aplicativos bacanas, novidades no mundo da tecnologia e ux. By Aerochimps

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Это первый из уроков, посвященных пяти визуальным принципам, которые помогут направить внимание пользователя в нужное русло. Какие-то части вашего дизайна важнее, чем другие, но бывает, что взгляд не падает на них автоматически. Поэтому нужно помочь пользователям заметить то, что действительно важно. Итак, наша тема на сегодня:Чтобы понять суть “визуального веса” надо воспринимать вещи интуитивно. Какие-то элементы макета выглядят “тяжелее”, чем другие. Они проще привлекают внимание. И это очень ценное знание для UX-дизайнера.Наша работа — помочь пользователям замечать то, что имеет значение. И столь же важно Увеличивая визуальный “вес” определенных элементов дизайна, вы добьетесь того, что пользователь их заметит и переключит на них свое внимание.Поэтому, без лишних слов, позвольте представить вам звезд этого UX-курса: *здесь звучат аплодисменты*Разница между светлыми и темными вещами называется В UX более важные вещи должны быть контрастнее — как уточка в центре. В нашем случае окружение уточки на картинке достаточно светлое, поэтому она выделяется. Если бы окружение было темным, выделялась бы светлая уточка.Если заменить уточек на кнопки, то люди скорее нажали бы на темную кнопку среди светлых. А если бы все кнопки были бы одного цвета, количество нажатий было бы гораздо меньше.В реальном мире, мы чаще замечаем вещи, расположенные вблизи, нежели те, что находятся далеко.В цифровом мире, объекты бЕсли бы все уточки были одного размера, вы бы, вероятнее всего, переводили взгляд с одной на другую слева-направо (при условии, что вы читаете слева-направо).Использование эффекта размытия и теней делает ощущение глубины еще более реалистичным. Но штука с размером работает даже при “плоском” дизайне.Как правило, чем важнее элемент дизайна, тем он больше. Так создается визуальная “иерархия” на странице, что облегчает пользователям “сканирование” информации, а нам позволяет управлять их вниманием.Именно поэтому неправильно “делать логотип побольше”. Если конечно вы не хотите, чтобы пользователи делились вашим логотипом вместо того, чтобы покупать ваш товар.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

In user experience, friction is defined as interactions that inhibit people from intuitively and painlessly achieving their goals within a digital interface. Friction is a major problem because it leads to bouncing, reduces conversions, and frustrates would-be customers to the point of abandoning their tasks. Today, the most successful digital experiences have emerged out of focusing on reducing friction in the user journey, including Pinterest, Uber, Mailbox, and Tinder. Spotify recently introduced a new Touch preview feature that leverages tap, hold and swipe gestures to reduce friction in discovering and liking songs. The strategic design decisions these companies have made have exponentially accelerated user adoption and engagement.In fact, a seamless, frictionless user experience has now become the new standard: the minimum to be relevant in the fast-paced world of technology. Gartner predicts that with ongoing competition there will be a more rapid change in user experience innovation over the next five years than in the previous 25 years. Here are some important developments accelerating the design of frictionless products:While tools and methodologies can be robust sources of user data, the availability of data requires an even more sophisticated understanding of how to balance and integrate different methods in order to extract relevant and actionable insights. Every step in the journey, from sign-up to search, can either create or remove friction and impact the success of the overall product. Lean Analytics by Alistair Croll and Ben Yoskovitz outlines key methods for analyzing user behavior. In order to strategically measure and optimize for overall business goals, Lean Analytics suggests prioritizing and focusing on metrics that matter. In an example by Croll during a Google Ventures talk, he emphasizes the importance of fully understanding the steps involved in a user journey and removing any steps that can negatively impact response rate.New surfaces, objects, and screens that provide seamless, frictionless user experiences are emerging, expanding beyond the screens of today, such as computers, tablets, and phones. For example, at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) this year, Bang  Olufsen revealed the BeoSound Moment: a new tablet-based music system with a wood case that is actually touch sensitive, making it the first wooden, touch-sensitive product on the market and leading the way for more materials and surfaces to become interactive.While haptic technology is not new, its role in facilitating frictionless experiences has been limited thus far. However, more responsive technologies that reduce friction by relying more on touch, movement, and gestures are growing in popularity, especially as wearables become a new point of interaction.A big barrier for haptic technology has been real-time accuracy. The surfaces of 3-D objects are now becoming new user interfaces as well. The interfaces of the future will reduce friction by eliminating our reliance on traditional monitors and keyboards, as touch, gestures, and voice technology are becoming more and more advanced. New technologies have sophisticated multi-touch capabilities and interactive software that promotes multi-user collaboration. As John Underkoffler, the CEO of Oblong explains in his TED talk, “One thing that three-dimensional interactions and the general idea of imbuing computation with space affords you is a final destruction of that unfortunate one-to-one pairing between human beings and computers. That’s the old way, that’s the old mantra: one machine, one human, one mouse, one screen. Well, that doesn’t really cut it anymore.”Leap Motion recently released an interaction engine, which is the the beginning of a toolkit built to support developers working with physics-based interactions. The interaction engine features magnetic anchors that can be applied to digital objects, allowing for interactions where objects are magnetically drawn to the hand based on proximity to anchor points within the digital space. Apple is also investing in virtual reality, specifically in gaming applications.While mobile deep-linking, or using a uniform resource identifier (URI) to link to a specific location within an app is an attempt to reduce that friction by directing users in between app experiences, it is a band-aid rather than a cure. One of deep-linkings shortcomings, as described by Nate Hindman, is “If a user doesn’t have an app installed, and you deep-link them into that app, then they’re either sent to the mobile web or to an app store download page. Bouncing someone from app to web is a poor user experience, and sending them to an app store download page is totally removed from the user’s intent: ‘I don’t want to download another app, I just want to buy those shoes.’” Talk about friction!For now a variety of startups, including DeepLink, are tackling deep-linking as the first steps towards improving user experience on mobile. Startups like Wildcard, Quixey and Button are even working on improving mobile search by using UI cards, revealing a vulnerability for tech behemoths like Apple and Google. Quixey is another startup with ambitions to create a search bar in your smartphone, making it possible to search both a relevant location within an app or search result outside of an app in order to reduce the friction of users having to manually find and input information in a smattering of apps on their smartphones.

Наши воспоминания зачастую неполные, неточные, ложные или даже нереальные. Это значит, что мы можем спроектировать то, что люди запомнят. Итак, сегодня тема нашей беседы:(Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Наш мозг Воспоминания Но ассоциации со временем меняются. Вы можете стать экспертом в области физики или перерасти свое желание пойти в школу в костюме вампира.Это означает, что в один прекрасный день вы уже не сможете вспомнить физику как новичок или думать о клыках как прикольной штуке.Каждый раз когда вы что-то вспоминаете, это воспоминание навсегда изменяется.Наш мозг также хорошо запоминает шаблоны или рутинные действия. Мы называем это Часть этой информации мы можем применить В моей книге, Мне однажды встретился опрос, где пользователей спрашивали: “Какой вебсайт вы посещали до этого?”Мы проверили с помощью Google Analytics и выяснили, что более 30% людей не смогли ответить правильно. А ведь речь идет о том, что случилось пять минут назад.И Интервью нужно записывать или, хотя бы, делать заметки, которые сможет использовать кто-то другой. Также нужно документировать все исследования (и записывать источники!).Хотите верьте, хотите нет, но часть из того, что мы помним, Не верите мне? Все еще хотите делать все, что говорят пользователи?Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

Hay 5 espacios de formación Iniciativa de No te puedes quejar, al menos no entender programación básica para hacer la web. En ésta “academia” aprendes, en línea y en tiempo real aprecias tus avances. Un servicio inteligente que La casa de Jesse James Garret, Jeffrey Veen, Indi Young o Peter Merholz imparte cursos UX por todo USA, pero tu puedes gozar de las charlas gratis si descargas la Es una suite de medios que van desde su influyente blog de Diseño UX “Es la nueva iniciativa en Cursos como “Diseño de Experiencia de Usuarios en Diseño de Experiencia de Usuarios  Interacción

Our role as web designers is to push existing technologies and tools just a little further. We convey unfamiliar messages in a way that drives people to accept products even if they blur the boundaries of the conventional. We pour techniques, concepts, and frameworks into snapshots of user experiences that unify a message, a vision, and a purpose. While many of the technologies and standards we apply today will change dramatically over our careers, two fundamentals will always seed good design: anchoring the message in a well-defined strategy and conveying it in a way that makes people stand up and pay attention. Needless to say, simply making a website responsive is not enough.Giving responsive design a voice in 4 “easy” steps:For me, being creative is about seeing beyond what’s in front of you and into what can be. By stepping out of your work and building the pieces of the puzzle through the lens of the unknown, you can see all your personal biases. Some of those biases are actually good — they’re a part of your personal style, and some of those biases are clichés and tropes. Those need to go.In web design, creativity and collaboration shouldn’t stop at the final submission. Being happily employed at a place that churns out good creative is easy. The hard part is cutting through the fluff of inflated trends, hype, and talking heads, and contributing to a more informed and strategic approach to UX for the industry as a whole.I’m all out of leftover pizza ☹ SR Interface Designer ☺ Sage Communications aboutsage.com

Earlier today I was looking for a hotel in Boston. I love a good deal, so I can’t just go to Orbitz and book one of the first hotels that look good in 5 minutes.Nope. I’m the type of person who has to search all the sites, try to find discount codes, and determine which hotel has the best amenities for my trip.So, I went to Hotels.com and did a search for Boston hotels. I was given no less than 297 hotels. This is impressive, but overwhelming. So I applied some filters such as pricing limits to help make my search easier to digest.I looked for options to “save” hotels within the search results. So then, I got creative and thought maybe there would be an option to “hide” certain results. But, neither of these functionalities existed.Booking a hotel or flight is a complex purchase. There are a lot of options and variables that I may want to compare. It seems very natural to me that I should be able to somehow widdle down my options.For the hotel in Boston, I wanted to compare price, amenities, and distance from airport for the 3 or 4 that really caught my eye, such as this:To be honest in the past few days, I’ve visited Hotels.com, Priceline.com, and Amex Travel multiple times. But, I haven’t actually booked a hotel yet.Why is that? Why has it taken me sooooo long to actually book a hotel room. In the grand scheme of things, this should be very simple.Because of this fear, I end up not booking a hotel and instead abandon my session at the website because I wasn’t provided with the tools necessary to take me down the purchase path.I appreciate the great volume based rates that large websites can get. But, I think that there need to be more options for comparison so that I can narrow down the options and actually make a decision.Sidenote: The idea of favoriting products already existing on a lot of e-commerce sites. But it amazes me that this option is not available for such complex purchases such as hotels and flights.As I was thinking about the experience of shopping online (albeit for a hotel), I started to compare it to the experience of a physical store.When you are in a physical store, all the options are in front of me you plain view. Imagine you are in the cereal aisle … yum!!But, can you imagine if the cereal continued to the next aisle?You’d be running back and forth so you could decide which cereal looked interesting.Then you’d have to run back around the aisle to check the nutritional label for the sugar content and run back and compare that to another box of cereal around the corner! That is ridiculous.All joking aside, the problem with online shopping is that unlike shopping in a physical environment, everything is NOT always in full view because the browser only lets you see so many things at once, and then you need to scroll to see the next things.When designing for online shopping, we need to consider how we can create user experiences that allow for some level of comparison for the user so that they are not scrolling up and down and up and down or clicking from page 2 to page 6 and back to page 3.Without giving users the option to compare products they are interested in, we are extending the consumer’s purchase journey and distracting them from actually making a purchase decision.As for my hotel room in Boston, I still haven’t booked it.But thanks to the handy mockup I created for earlier in this post, I might be able to make by decision in the morning!I love product design, UX, travel,  running. I publish a newsletter, The UX Notebook. Sign up here → 

As I’ve mentioned before, I am frequently referred to as “The UI Guy” by coworkers and on-site customers, which, as I explained, is a problem. This unofficial title is not only ambiguous, but it also suggests that I do far less than I actually do. Ultimately, this means I may not be utilized or valued appropriately, which hurts my customers, my coworkers, and, of course, me.I’ve decided that I am a Digital Product Designer, as that title seems to best encompass all the things I do. However, while this is helpful, it certainly does not go far enough towards solving the problem. Since titles are really just super-abbreviated descriptions of what we do, they necessarily leave out a lot about our work. If I were in a profession where the nature, scope, and variety of the work I did was well understood by most, this would not be a problem. However, I am not. On the contrary, the disciplines and roles within the field of digital product design are quite vast and varied, and remain fairly opaque to most people, including the very people who hire me and work with me. Consequently, my title is only part of the solution.The rest of the solution is helping the people that matter better understand what it is I do, how I do it, and why I do it. I need them to understand how these things bring value to their business or processes and help them better achieve their goals. They key here is clarity. If I can make this as clear as possible, eliminating as much ambiguity as possible, then I think I will have largely solved the problem.Because digital product design does cover a lot of territory, I have first decided to focus on the largest part of that role, which is user experience design. I have written before on how to define this in terms of a job, but for my purpose now it is more important that I help others understand it from their point of view. In short, I need to think about what they wish to know and should know about what I do. As I see it, it all boils down to three things: process, goals, and artifacts.If people understand the UX design process, then they know how to integrate my work into the larger product development process. They can plan time more effectively, plan use of resources more effectively, and be able to measure and report progress more effectively.And if they understand the goals I am working to achieve at each step in the UX design process, then they know what things I might need to help me accomplish my work and they know when I have completed each step of the process and am ready to move on to the next.Finally, if everyone understands the kinds of artifacts that I might create in order to achieve my goals at each step of the process, then they know what kinds of things they could see, review, approve, or share that will provide valuable information about the design of the product and the experience it might deliver.So, to this end I have created a diagram that illustrates these things as plainly as possible. I started with Chris Bank’s excellent design process diagram published at (Get the I hope that this can provide real clarity about my work, helping my team and those I work for better understand just what it is I do all day. At one time it was sort of fun to think that others had no clue what I was doing until they saw the final product. There was a freedom in that, a bit of creative license to pretty much do anything I wanted any way I wished, so long as the end result was a hit. However, I’ve learned that a lack of transparency and clarity is far more often a hindrance and a real problem. I want those around me to know exactly what I do, how I do it, and what it means for them. Ultimately, I want them to recognize the full value of my efforts, so that they can use them to their greatest benefit, and reward me in a similarly beneficial fashion.If you have thoughts or comments, just throw me a tweet @chriskobar.UX + Product Designer. Sometimes I write stuff.Thoughts on design

The But it’s also the site of one of the most hilarious UX failures I’ve ever seen.There’s an exhibit, at one end of the main floor, that invites you to learn about insect species through an interactive floor interface. The idea is to nudge a piece of food along with your foot, luring a bug into a trap, which brings up information about the critter on a wall display.However, what happens when kids see bugs on the floor? A scene straight out of Every now and then, an older child will actually read the instructions and attempt to follow them. Unfortunately, their careful steps are usually trampled by a toddler first.It’s worth noting that the technology works beautifully. Every thunderous footfall is precisely captured and processed.The obvious UX lesson here is to make sure you understand the mental model of your audience (customers). And vet some prototypes. It’s hard to believe this had been tested with any kids—their reaction would have been unmistakable.Otherwise, you’ll get stomped.VP Engineering 

Merhaba.Bir e-ticaret sitesini tasarlarken göz önünde bulundurulması gereken bir çok konu var. Ancak bunlardan en önemlisi potansiyel müşterilerin zihninden geçenleri bilebilmek.Farklı tipte müşterilerin aynı şekilde alışveriş yapmak için bir çok farklı motivasyonları ve amaçları oluyor ve bunların farkında olmak hayata geçireceğimiz e-ticaret projemiz için bize daha fazla kullanılabilirlik olarak geri dönüş sağlayacaktır.Geçmişte yaptığımız projelere ve edindiğimiz deneyimlere bakarak 5 ana kullanıcı tipi belirledim ve aşağıda hepsini detaylıca inceleyeceğiz. Hazır mısın? Başlıyoruz.Bu müşteri tipini motive eden şeyler nelerdir?Marka Sadakati; DüşükAlışveriş Olasılığı; OrtaUcuzluk avcısı internette aradığı ürünü en uygun fiyata bulmak için onlarca sitede fazlaca zaman geçirebilir. Genellikle bu müşteri tipi aramaya öncelikle cimri.com, bilio.com gibi karşılaştırma sitelerinden başlar. Marka için herhangi bir bağlılıkları olmamakla birlikte aradıkları ürünü veya varyantı en uygun fiyata bulabilmek tek amaçlarıdır. Güçlü marka sadakati olanlar ise sosyal medyadan sürekli takipte kalarak indirim kodları veya diğer kampanyalar için bir nevi tetikte beklerler. Genellikle ihtiyaçları olmasa bile sadece ucuz olduğu için kafalarına takılan bir ürünü satın alabilirler ve bahanelerinin de uzun vadede para tasarrufu olduğunu söylerler ve alışveriş esnasında kendilerini kaptırarak diğer pek çok alakasız ancak uygun fiyatlı ürünleri satın almaları yüksek bir olasılıktır.Kararlı müşteriyi motive eden yalnızca iki etken vardır;Marka Sadakati: Düşük/OrtaAlışveriş olasılığı: OrtaKararlı müşteriler akıllarına takılan bir ürünü satın almak ve o ürüne olan ihtiyaçlarını gidermek üzere eyleme geçerler. Eğer bu müşteriler sitenizde aradıkları ürünü kolayca bulamıyorlarsa büyük bir ihtimalle tekrar geri gelmeyeceklerdir.Araştırmacı müşteriyi neler motive eder?Marka Sadakati; Çok azAlışveriş Olasılığı; Yüksek — Geniş bir zaman aralığı içindeki karar verme süresi önemli etken.Araştırmacı müşteri tutkulu bir şekilde ürünler hakkında fiyat ve içerik bilgisi oluşturmaya çalışır zihninde. Bu araştırma süreci birkaç gün de sürebilir maddi gelirine ve ürün grubunun genel fiyatlarına bağlı olarak aylar da. Bir örnek vermem gerekirse çoğumuz zaman zaman macbook fiyatlarına bakarız mesela ☺ Genelde çok fazla ve farklı sayıda siteyi ziyaret ederler. Eğer doğru bir şekilde bilgi edinebilirlerse bilgiyi edindikleri siteyi ziyaret etmeye devam ederler.Bu müşteri tipinin herhangi bir özel isteği veya bir fikri yoktur. Öylesine gezinirler ve rastgele alışveriş yaparlar. Evlerimizde müsriflikleriyle tanınan bireylerimizdir. İçimizdedir, her yerdedirler.İşte bu yüzden bu müşteri tipini gerçek alıcılara çevirmek tam bir sınavdır. Aslında sitenizin aldığı trafiğin çok büyük bir çoğunluğunu oluştururlar. Yine de bunlar göçebe müşteri tipini gözardı etmemize engel değildir ancak yine de yapılacaklar sınırlı. Allah yardımcınız olsun ☺İşte asıl can müşteriler! Peki onları ne motive ediyor?Marka Sadakati; Çok YüksekAlışveriş Olasılığı; Yüksek/Çok yüksekBu segment genellikle oturmuş bir e-ticaret sitesinin satışlarının %50sinden fazlasını sırtlanabiliyor. İnanılmaz değil mi? Sadık müşteriler için fiyat önemini korusa da yukarda saydığımız motivasyon nedenleri arasında yer almadığını fark etmişsinizdir. O kadar dert değil çünkü onlar için! Bunun anlamı gidin bol bol kazıklayın demek de değil tabiiki. İki dakka adam olun.Sadık Müşteri İçin UI/UX RehberiEdemezsin.Ancak bu müşteri segmentlerini ve onların ihtiyaçlarını anlayıp gerekli değişiklikleri bunları göz önünde bulundurarak yaptığında veya bir öncelik tanımlayıp belli bir segmente eğildiğinde faydalarını parça parça ve uzun vadede görebilirsin ancak.Tüm e-ticaret sitelerinde bu 5 müşteri tipi mutlaka vardır. Onların davranış şemalarını doğru şekilde gözlemleyip ortaya çıkardığımızda ve problemleri çözmeye başladığımızda başarıya giden iki kıvrımlı yolun birini düzeltmiş olursunuz; Anlamak ve sunmak.Founder of Solem Technology and  Solem Pet MarketGelecek aklında ilerle.

The aim of the topic was to figure out what a person new to UX could reasonably expect when embarking on a UX career in Singapore.A A These numbers were only wrangled out of the senior UX folks after much prompting. Understandably, not all experience is equal, so take the numbers with a pinch of salt.The specialist path involves being a practice lead, which is someone who goes super in-depth into a particular UX field.The managerial path involves dealing with people, stakeholders and understanding business needs.Going overseas to work was suggested as a way around the lack of mentors.Take part in hackathons or volunteer to help others with their UX problems. The point is, you can gain valuable experience outside of work. And this is doubly valuable if the experience is in a different vertical or industry.The senior UX folks highly recommended this book.That’s all for the discussion. Thanks to all the senior UX folks who came by to share their wisdom.Product Management, UX/UI, Front-end side of development, Tea Drinker and Co-founder of 

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Один из самых распространенных вопросов в UX-дизайне: “Где расположить кнопку? Справа или слева?” Вообще-то все зависит от ситуации. Точнее от того, где у вас находятся визуальные “края”. Итак, сегодняшняя тема:Кстати, перед тем как вникать в тему c кнопоками обратите внимание не следующую статью: Наше внимание очень ограничено. За раз мы может концентрироваться чем-то одном, скажем, на белке, или на сиськах, или на телешоу. И пока мы концентрируемся на одной порции информации, другие порции становятся совершенно невидимыми.Не верите? Вы будете применять визуальные принципы, изученные в этом курсе, в каждом вашем дизайне. И тогда, взглянув на созданный вами лэйаут со стороны, вы заметите, что повсюду создали “линии” или “края” или “блоки”.Они создаются посредством выравнивания текстов или картинкок, а также любых других объектов.Группы таких объектов создают Внимание пользователя почти всегда сконцентрировано на оси взаимодействия, и как только оно сходит с этой оси, то тут же перескакивает на другую.Если хотите, чтобы люди на что-то кликнули, расположите это на (или около) оси взаимодействия. Если клики на каком-то объекте вам не нужны, расположите его подальше от оси.Чем дальше элемент от оси взаимодействия, тем меньше людей увидят его; а то, что мы не видим, мы и не кликнем.Вот и все дела!Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

In a We have also mentioned some of the must attend Web Design Conferences of 2014 on our blog a couple of days ago. You can enjoy a further reading here: Well, if that doesn’t convince you enough, maybe the list below will make you want to join these UX Summits, Conferences, Workshops and more.This cool summit takes place in Washington, DC on January, 2014. Which means pretty soon, so get ready. Set. Go! It will be presented by the DigitalGov University. This first User Experience Summit holds a lot of promises for the community and the professionals. Presented by Blink Interactive, this two-days conference takes place in Seattle, WA on February (5th, 6th, 7th). What does it promise us? Answers to our worries: Are we designing the right UX? How can we adapt our communication strategies in terms of Touch and Voice technologies? And more on their February 17-19, 2014 brings another two-day conference in Atlanta, Georgia USA. This event promises to bring 12 speakers and an all-day learning session. More info on their If you don’t have anything planned for February 24th and 25th, then you should check out this annual Symposium in Greenville, North Carolina. 5 days (7th to 11th of March) can keep every UX designer busy in Austin, Texas USA. This conference promises to bring the brightest minds and make every minute count, with special programs, best of the new digital works, games and innovation. For more information The MX conference takes place in March (16th and 17th), in San Francisco, California and joins real world examples of people who take on their leadership role in UX. More info on their More than just an UX conference, the Conversion Conference (March, 17-19) in San Francisco, California will bring the latest techniques in A/B, multivariate testing and website data analysis, page designs and layouts, usability and optimizations. Somewhat of a mystery, (no current data), this Summit will take place in San Diego, California between March 25th and 30th. More info Design and Web Development Magazine. We provide design, web development, premium products, quality freebies. Find us on Posts and Updates on Medium Shared by the Designmodo Team

I was recently asked how, as a Product Manager, I would approach testing and validating the selection of a new feature for a product, It was an interesting question, and within the scope and context of the interview, I was a bit stumped. “Isn’t that the point of building it and staging it?” I thought? But I needed the PM hat on, which meant balancing resources efficiently.The conversation inevitably took a turn into talking about wireframing tools: is Axure more powerful than Balsamiq? Is Powerpoint good enough or do we need to dive into Photoshop? In short, the assumption was made that a wireframe was the best validation tool.But no. I wasn’t satisfied with that. No way. My first instinct would always be: “let’s build the damn thing”. And to be frank, I’m a pretty good UX designer and frontend developer myself, so if I was pushing a new feature as a PM, I would definitely build it first.And hell, I have. At my last company, I used CodePen all the time to demonstrate a concept to someone. I built entire landing pages on it, whipped together proofs-of-concepts for the Devs to understand what I meant. This allowed them to understand the interaction that the user had with the UI, and allowed them to enjoy the UX a lot more than if they had a wireframe or high-fidelity mockup to work off.In short, I need a UX staging environment, and a web-based HTML/CSS/JS editor with instant preview and sharing ability allowed for just that. It worked wonders. I know the dev guys probably appreciated it a lot more than a feature breakdown and me trying to describe an interaction or transition over a Skype call.Maybe I’m rehashing an idea that’s been tossed around a million times before, but I’m beginning to think that a portfolio on an app like CodePen may become a very important tool in a UX designer’s arsenal, and very useful for Product Managers everywhere.I build websites and drink coffee. Toronto.

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Что касается копирайтинга, у UX-профессионалов и истинных копирайтеров совершенно разные цели. Мы больше концентрируемся на специфических типах написания текстов, и нам наплевать на нашу репутацию как поэтов и литераторов. Итак, сегодня наша тема:Есть четыре типа сообщений, в написание которых UX-дизайнер может внести ценный вклад. Во всех прочих случаях, стоит оставить эту работу профессиональным создателям контента. Итак, эти четыре типа:В этом уроке мы поговорим о первых трех. Четвертый случай будет рассмотрен в отдельном уроке, позже в рамках этого курса.Побуждающий к действию заголовок или текст, расположенный на кнопке (или около нее), объясняет людям, что делать. “Скачать приложение сейчас!” или “Обновите аккаунт бесплатно!” или что-то вроде этого. И вы, вероятно, удивитесь насколько полезным может быть в таких случаях хороший UX-текст.Вот общая формула хорошего кол-ту-экшна:Если вам нужно более подробное объяснение этой формулы, Если то, что требуется от пользователя, не очевидно на 100% — и даже, если настолько очевидно — вы вполне можете захотеть ему помочь. Во вчерашнем уроке по формам мы это тоже упоминали, потому что инструкции наиболее часто встречаются именно в формах.Инструкции должны быть краткими, буквальными и прямыми. Никакого жаргона. Никаких специфических терминов. Никаких шуточек, сарказма или подозрительных фразочек. Также не будьте слишком многословными или слишком мягкими.Напрямую скажите им, что делать. В самых простых фразах и выражениях, какие вы знаете. Обращайтесь к ним так, словно они умные дети, или будто они только начинают учить язык. Это не должно звучать глупо — лишь предельно понятно.Очень заманчиво сделать метки особенными и интересными, но вы не должны поддаваться искушению. Выбирайте самую общую, простую, базовую формулировку метки. Иногда по метке бывает непонятно, что на вопрос может быть дано сразу несколько ответов.Метки также применимы к кнопкам, а многие дизайнеры упускают это из виду.Если пропустить заголовок и инструкции, будет ли понятно, что делает кнопка? Если нет, то поработайте над метками.Однако, это один из таких случаев в UX, когда метод в теории очень прост, а реальный сценарий усложняется политикой. Если в компании есть креативный диретор или копирайтер или клиент, который смотрит на ваш текст и говорит “надо сделать его покруче”, — вы должны сказать Если нужно, докажите это при помощи A/B-тестирования, но стойте на своем, если текст служит практической или функциональной цели. Иногда пользователю нужен “простой и понятный”, а не “крутой и забавный” опыт.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

← (Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Как UX-дизайнеры, мы всегда должны держать в голове конкретные цели. Как свои собственные, так и цели пользователей. В отличие от UI-дизайна, показателем ваших способностей в UX (или их отсутствия) является умение достигать поставленных целей. Поэтому сегодня представляю вашему вниманию следующую идею:Вы хотите, чтобы пользователи что-то сделали.Пользователи тем временем тоже хотят что-то сделать.Вот только эти “что-то” могут не совпадать.Как UX-дизайнеры, мы должны Цели магазина — продавать всякую всячину.Цели социальной сети — увеличивать число регистраций и способствовать социальным взаимодействиям.Цели порносайтов — … ну в общем сами догадайтесь.Визуальный дизайнер — как, например, UI-дизайнер — проектирует сам интерфейс. Это, конечно, важно, но у каждого свое мнение об идеальном дизайне. Большинство этих мнений — невнятные и бесполезные, но все же.UX-дизайнер отвечает за то, как все Одна из самых существенных новых идей, которые приходят в голову, когда только начинаешь заниматься UX, это то, что теперь вы UX — это научная часть дизайна. Она ориентирована на результат. Но чтобы добиться хороших результатов, нужно (Никогда не принуждать силой! Всегда мотивировать. Это работает хоть в UX-дизайне, хоть на свиданиях).А еще это означает, что один UX-дизайн может быть “более правильным”, чем другой. И не важно, какой кому больше нравится. Мы можем Многим людям очень сложно это принять.В течение следующих 5-ти уроков мы узнаем как сделать так, чтобы люди начали драться за воображаемые вещи и “пускать слюни” по вашему сигналу, научимся создавать вирусный контент и делать игры, вызывающие привыкание, а ещё мы узнаем как внушить доверие к вашему дизайну и контенту.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: В продолжение темы психологических аспектов UX: мы с вами погрузимся в ту область UX, которой была посвящена львиная доля моих исследований:А еще, этот урок дополняет В ходе сравнения 40 различных типов личностей, обладающих даром убеждения, мне удалось заметить, что у их методов есть 8 общих признаков. Они перечислены ниже:Вы когда-нибудь видели На все эти вещи найдется спрос среди вашей аудитории — и каждая вызовет определенную эмоциональную реакцию — но в интернете особенно полезными являются Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

(Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Два основных аспекта UX, которые могут принести самые загадочные результаты, — это информационная архитектура и психология пользователя. Иногда они могут быть похожи друг на друга. Итак, наша тема сегодня:Мы уже многое узнали о том, как представить информацию, чтобы люди выбирали определенные опции чаще, чем обычно.Но что, если многие пользователи ни с того ни с сего выбирают опцию, которая вам совершенно не интересна?Существует масса таких примеров. Однако, в этом уроке я не собираюсь давать вам набор возможных сценариев. Просто хочется наглядно показать вам, как навигация или оформление сайта может оказаться, так скажем, “волком в шкуре Мы с вами уже поняли, как спланировать контент на сайте так, чтобы определенные опции выглядели привлекательнее для пользователя, чем остальные.Если пользователи По элементам, расположенным слева в горизонтальном списке и сверху в вертикальном списке, кликают больше, потому что люди видят их первыми.Мне приходилось видеть, как компании строили целые стратегии на предположении, что “Опция №1” — это предпочтение пользователя. Хотя, на самом деле, они просто увидели эту опцию первой.Мы уже знаем, как привлечь внимание пользователей и сделать так, чтобы сообщениям не приходилось за него “соревноваться”.Так что, если всем нравится ваш сайт, но никто его не читает?В последнее время идет мода на сайты с В этом случае, внимание пользователя Анимации и клевые эффекты нужно использовать как элементы Вы когда-нибудь пробовали Мы уже поняли, что суть психологии пользователя в том, чтобы мотивировать пользователей на важные действия. Например, регистрация, покупка, подписка, апгрейд и т.д. Если на ваших конверсионных страницах низкий трафик, возможно, люди просто не хотят регистрироваться. Или, быть может, они не могут попасть на эти страницы.Скажем, пользователь в какой-то момент оказывается на странице, где нет кнопки “Зарегистрироваться”. Когда он будет “готов” к регистрации, он не станет возвращаться назад и искать эту кнопку где-то еще.Итог: кнопку он не найдет.И редкий пользователь пожалуется на это неудобство. Просто потому, что это не визуальная проблема. Это проблема бизнеса.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Не нужно обладать глубоким знанием статистики, чтобы увидеть интересные закономерности на графике. Человеческое поведение укладывается во вполне предсказуемые формы. Поэтому сегодня наша тема:Такие графики показывают, сколько пользователей выполнили какое-то действие на протяжении какого-то Трафик всегда будет слегка двигаться вверх-вниз, потому что разные события происходят каждый день. Даже когда сам сайт вообще не меняется.Поэтому не стоит предполагать, что небольшие изменения в трафике появляются из-за новой функции или изменений в дизайне.Если по вашему графику можно спокойно “прошагать”, как по ступенькам, и на нем отображается стабильный “рост” или “падение”, то этот тренд, скорее всего, продолжится и в дальнейшем, если вы намеренно не измените его.У вас была акция на выходных? Или на странице случились какие-то технические неполадки? Или, может быть, ваша приватная секс-запись была опубликована? Когда на графике появляется “острие” (или резкий “провал”), постарайтесь выяснить, чем это вызвано. Потому что — как бы вам ни хотелось верить, что вы вдруг ни с того, ни с сего стали круче — всегда есть причина резких изменений на графике. Иногда хорошая; иногда плохая.Видите этот повторяющийся паттерн?Сайты, на которых сидят “офисные работники”, имеют бНо…Если сайт “здоров”, то, вдобавок к индивидуальному паттерну, на тренде будет прослеживаться небольшой рост. А если вы наблюдаете супер-предсказуемый паттерн, но общий уровень постепенно снижается, то, возможно, ваши пользователи уже умирают со скуки. Встряхните аудиторию!Другая крупная группа графиков показывает, что именно люди делают. День и час большого значения не имеет. На этот тип данных сильно влияет График выше имеет форму горки. По первому объекту кликнут больше, чем по второму. По второму кликнут больше, чем по третьему. Всегда есть какой-то очевидный порядок — как в меню — или естественная последовательность, объясняющие внешний вид графика.Обычно так выглядит список “Топовых страниц”, потому что никто не переходит к пункту два, не просмотрев пункт один. Детальный вид показателей “длительность сеанса” и “количество страниц за сеанс” будет выглядеть примерно так же, потому что А вот этот еще интереснее. Если ваш сайт предлагает все, что нужно, но немного не в том порядке, это означает, что вы неправильно представляли себе приоритеты пользователей. Иногда они кликают второй объект, не заинтересовавшись первым. Ненормальные ублюдки!Постарайтесь так изменить дизайн/информационную архитектуру, чтобы они совпадали с логикой, которую подсказывают данные графиков. Но не стоит пытаться изменить пользователей. Они этого терпеть не могут.Этот график похож на тот, предыдущий, в форме “горки”, но у этого есть Узнайте, что их мотивирует, и чаще этим пользуйтесь!Вам нужно, чтобы ваша “горка” выглядела плавно и гладко. Любые безумные падения или шероховатости означают проблемы. Если у вас непонятная главная страница, вы, вероятно, скоро увидите такой вот график, означающий, что лишь немногие добираются до второй страницы.A/B тесты помогут вам найти проблему, если она еще не очевидна.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

← (Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Когда занимаешься UX-дизайном, очень просто увлечься структурами и техниками и напрочь забыть о том, что пользователи — реальные люди, и они чувствуют, когда происходит какое-то дерьмо. Контекст имеет значение! Честность имеет значение! Потому-то и стоит поближе рассмотреть эту тему:Доверие — это решающий фактор в любом вашем деле. Доверие можно завоевать несколькими способами, но в тех случаях, когда дизайн не внушает доверия, вам может быть сложно это почувствовать из-за Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

← (Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Наш мозг — это система. Какая-то информация входит, какая-то — выходит. Но, как и в любой системе, если входящая информация не в том формате, на который система ориентирована, результат будет ниже среднего. Сегодня мы узнаем:Когнитивные искажения — это нечто подобное.Если задавать людям вопросы определенного типа, В UX-дизайне, мы можем воспользоваться такими “ошибками”. Мы можем позволить пользователям выбирать, что они хотят, и в большинстве случаев они выберут именно то, что нужно Да помогут вам несколько примеров…В следующий раз, когда будете просить прибавку к зарплате, нацеливайтесь на большую сумму. Всей этой суммы вы не получите, но ваша Потому что остальные мамы тоже так говорят.Поэтому всегда стоит показывать, сколько людей “лайкнуло”, зарегистрировалось или чем-то поделилось. И именно поэтому в рекламных роликах говорят что-то вроде “миллионы людей не могут ошибаться!”. Еще как могут!Какое предложение самое выгодное? Буквально через несколько секунд, с вероятностью 80% вы выберете печатную + электронную версии. Почему? Да потому, что цена печатной версии — это “приманка”. Никто никогда не выберет этот вариант. Единственная его цель — это создать видимость, что самый дорогой вариант — самый выгодный. И хотя никто не выбирает этот вариант, стоит нам его убрать — и около 60% людей предпочтут более дешевый вариант (электронную версию за $10).Это не рациональное поведение. А Так что на грядущих выборах хорошенько подумайте, прежде чем сделать выбор.Существует Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

One of the biggest challenges in creating a responsive website is laying-out a few interactive components on the small-sized screen of a mobile phone at the same time.Interactive components require more space than read-only components due to the size of the human finger.The The pick contains the following information curated from the source post:The image and name of the user who picked the postThe width of the pick is smaller on mobile devices to enable the side-by-side display of at least 2 picks.Most websites stretch the narrowed pick vertically, and this forces the user to scroll the entire page when reading the pick. Thus the other picks are also scrolled and moved out of sight.TimelyPick scrolls each pick individually instead of scrolling the entire page, when the user drags his/her finger over the pick.The entire page is scrolled only when dragging a point that is outside of any pick.In the above picture the right pick has been scrolled.Each website should guide new visitors by gradually and effectively introducing the functionality of the website using attractive UX techniques.One commonly used technique is popping up small windows to display tips to the new visitor without leaving the page.Another technique, available only on desktop machines, is using tooltips which are displayed by desktop browsers when mouse-hover events are triggered on html elements.On mobile devices, it is very important not to obscure large portions of the small screen.The tells the new visitor that he/she can fully open a picked article by clicking on any thumbnail in any displayed pick.The tips to the user occupy the minimal possible screen space.This technique doesn’t require mouse events and thus is available on mobile devices.To see these UX techniques in action, visit: Entrepreneur, tech enthusiast, social media strategist. I understand the power of the technology as a critical component in any business growth

It’s cool to see VC funds that are committed to actively helping their portfolio companies, putting their money where their mouths are and hiring in-house support staff to provide different types of assistance to their investees. Perhaps no fund better exemplifies this approach than Andreessen Horowitz, with full teams of professionals dedicated to facilitating portfolio company growth and business development.At From the day I started Jumpspeed Ventures in late 2013 I’d told anyone who would listen that my first hire would be a UX designer who would work closely with the portfolio companies.Tevi is a fantastically talented UX expert who had been pursued by numerous startups and funds. We are overjoyed and honored to have him aboard and he’s already making major contributions to the new designs (and redesigns) of a few of our portfolio companies’ products. To the best of our knowledge Jumpspeed is the first VC fund in Israel to formally add a DIR (other funds in the U.S. such as Greylock and Bessemer have made similar hires in the past).A few years ago Marc Andreessen proclaimed that “

Мы живём в мире баннерной слепоты и он жесток.В 1994 году CTR первого в мире рекламного баннера на HotWired.com При этом бюджеты на баннерную рекламу остаются колоссальными. 19,1 млрд рублей составил рынок баннерной рекламы по оценкам АКАР в 2014 году. Renaul-Nissan вложил в баннеры почти 900 млн рублей, Procter  Gamble — 550 млн, Volkswagen — 500 млн рублей.Впервые о баннерной слепоте упомянули в далёком 1998 году. Тогда Жан Бенвей и Дэвид Лейн из университета Хьюстона тестировали интерфейсы сайтов и их удобство. Они выяснили, что люди не обращали внимание на баннеры вне зависимости от того, где именно они располагались на странице.Такое поведение пользователей логично. Люди приходят на сайт за информацией, а не за рекламой.В начале нулевых рекламу делали адски яркой, над её содержимым извращались до невозможности. Сразу после этого наступил резкий спад. После 2001 года пользователи перестали кликать на баннеры.Именно тогда маркетологи начали проводить исследования и придумывать, куда лучше ставить баннер.Способ “в лоб” — Баннер прямо в шапке сайта, как делает журнал «Food and Travel».По F-паттерн на сайте Look At MeСогласно этой теории, самая сильная область страницы — снизу справа — там лучше всего размещать call-to-action. Самая слабая зона с минимальным вниманием — слева снизу.Их начали часто использовать последние пару лет. Это попытка развести рекламу и контент на разные слои сайта и вообще не смешивать их. Это кажется хорошей идеей, но, на самом деле, не лучший подход. (Дальше поймете, почему.)Так размещает рекламу «Кинопоиск».Ещё один вариант — показывать пользователю перед заходом на сайт страницу приветствия. На ней несколько секунд отображается реклама, а уже потом открывается контент.Так поступают «Ведомости» и Forbes.Настройки таргетинга позволяют выходить точно на целевую аудиторию. В этом случае человек хотя бы краем глаза зацепится за предложение, которое его заинтересует, и перейдёт по ссылке.Главная ошибка маркетологов, которые придумали все эти решения — они не учитывали интересы пользователя. Пользователю нужен контент. Он ставит AdBlock и все ваши CTR, конверсии и извороты его не касаются — вы официально в тупике и теряете потенциального клиента.Вы делаете полезный пользователю контент и в нём неагрессивно продвигаете свой продукт. Человеку интересно с вашей рекламой. В этом случае ваши цели совпадают.Ярчайший пример эффективности этой комбинации — Стриминговый музыкальный сервис Spotify Пользователь с удовольствием проходит тест, а потом переходит в Spotify, чтобы послушать музыку. А ещё делится результатом и увеличивает виральность поста.Промоутируется запись на главной странице вместе с редакционными материалами, с небольшой пометкой, что это реклама.Хороший пример — Результат — более 8 тысяч просмотров, более 100 комментариев, более 500 расшариваний в социальные сети.Нативную рекламу можно встраивать не в общий поток редакционных материалов, а в рекомендации под ними. Это самый простой способ и для площадок, и для рекламодателей. Им не приходится ни о чем договариваться. Алгоритмы рекомендательного блока сами выбирают, каким юзерам будет интересна реклама.Вот так это делаем мы в Даже на короткой дистанции такой формат доказывает свою эффективность. Средний CTR рекламных блоков Relap — 2,5%. Если сравнивать этот показатель со средней кликабельностью баннерной рекламы, выходит в 25 раз больше.

Não sei se você já ouviu isso por aí, mas UX Designers são pessoas maravilhosas. Nunca conheci um profissional dessa área que não tivesse, pelo menos, três ótimas qualidades.Exceções às favas, UXers são inteligentes, educados e naturalmente curiosos. O fato de serem constantemente preocupados com outras pessoas é ainda mais encantador.Se você já fisgou ou quer fisgar o coração de um(a) UX Designer; se você quer simplesmente saber por onde começar a puxar papo com aquele seu colega que sabe dos paranauê da usabilidade; ou, ainda, se você está flertando mais com a profissão do que com o profissional, pode precisar de uma ajudinha para entender alguns jargões e termos técnicos.Depois de ler essas 8 dicas, assunto para conversar com um UXer é o que não vai faltar. Difícil vai ser decidir se é você quem vai seduzir o UX Designer ou é a UX que vai seduzir você.Iniciar o papo já sabendo que, para ser “clean”, o design não precisa ser branco quebra a barreira inicial e soma pontos para o flerte. Um design “clean”, como o próprio termo sugere, é um design mais limpo. Ou seja, com menos elementos, objetos bem distribuídos e organizados de forma harmônica. Isso facilita a compreensão do usuário.Para continuar o papo, emendar o assunto “O Flat Design bombou na web em 2013, com o boom do lançamento do iOS7 pela Apple. Foi uma explosão de desenhos planos, cores sólidas e muito minimalismo. Os objetos 3D e as texturas que imitam materiais reais foram substituídos por projetos visuais que valorizam as cores, a tipografia e, claro, a experiência do usuário (ele, sempre ele).A tendência permanece até hoje e ganhou personalidade nas mãos das grandes marcas, como a Google, por exemplo. E na boca dos UXers, “Se no momento da paquera você se baseia na ideia que você tem sobre o que a outra pessoa está pensando para tomar uma decisão, você vai dominar este termo com o pé nas costas.Mindset é, basicamente, o processo de entender como o usuário pensa na hora de decidir por uma determinada ação. Isso serve para que o UXer desenhe uma navegação mais intuitiva. O objetivo da ação será sempre o mesmo, mas os caminhos para chegar até ele podem ser diferentes. E este é o momento de pensar sobre isso.Já o O que diferencia o mindmap de outras técnicas de compilação e organização de informações é que ele permite representar as ideias de forma harmônica, utilizando as funções cognitivas do cérebro a seu favor.Decore essa palavra, pois, se o projeto paquera der certo, você vai ouvi-la várias vezes ao longo da vida, até começar a falar também. Daqui a pouco, ela vai sair da sua boca e você nem vai perceber que está usando o termo para nomear o esqueleto de algum projeto.O Wireframe é uma espécie de protótipo de baixa fidelidade, sem cores ou imagens, que mostra apenas o essencial, como o posicionamento e a hierarquia dos elementos de uma tela. Muito usado pra validar conceitos e fluxos.Normalmente, é uma etapa que antecede o Tem nome de café, pode ser confundido com wireframe mas, na verdade, Os mockups costumam vir depois dos wireframes e são rascunhos muito próximos do produto final. Um mockup bem feito, além de representar a estrutura da informação, já dá uma boa noção de cores, formas e tipografia das telas.Quando a coisa começa a esquentar, é preciso chamar para ação. Nos projetos de UX a regra não é diferente.A função das chamadas à ação, ou Pois saiba que esse conceito é muito importante para quem trabalha com web. Por isso, mereceu um Eu sei, esse termo soa como a sensação de levar um “gelo” de alguém, mas pode relaxar, que não é nada disso. Quando um UX Designer disser essa palavra perto de você, não é para pedir espaço ou anunciar que precisa de um tempo.Os espaços negativos, ou espaços em branco, são as áreas vazias entre os elementos de uma tela. São espaços criados para não serem utilizados. Espaços que dão leveza ao layout e oferecem uma experiência clara e agradável ao usuário.E aí, deu para aprender um pouquinho sobre o significado dos principais jargões usados por UX Designers? Tomara que sim! Se você curtiu o assunto e quer saber mais, não deixe de ler:Desenvolvemos aplicativos web e mobile. Conversamos sobre aplicativos bacanas, novidades no mundo da tecnologia e ux. 

It’s been a month since I launched my free Chrome Extension, UX Check (When I launched the extension, I honestly expected no more than 100 people to try it out. At this point, more than 50K people have visited the website and 11K people have installed the extension. Much of the popularity is thanks to being prominently featured on Product Hunt and Hacker News. Here is the story about how I built it and launched it.UX Check was four months of hard work, and along the way, I learned a few techniques that helped keep my motivation up.After all of this hard work, it felt surreal to finally reach ship day. I got quite lucky with my launch. Here’s how it went:On 12/21, UX Check ended third on Product Hunt. The data below shows how much traffic this drove.On 1/13, mhr_online posted UX Check to Hacker News and again, it ended up third. I was floored at the traffic spike!Because UX Check was featured on different dates, I was able to find some interesting differences between Hacker News  Product Hunt.Duh.When I launched on Product Hunt, I saw a conversion rate of 16.5%, and when I launched on Hacker News, I saw a conversion rate of 14.7%. While the difference is small, it is statistically significant (p = 0.0005). The difference likely has to do with the different purposes and designs of the two sites.Another interesting metric to track was the % of unqiue visitors who tweeted about UX Check. On launch day, Product Hunters tweeted about UX Check at a rate of 1.9x the rate at which Hacker News users tweeted (p = 0.000015). 1.7% of the unique visitors from Product Hunt tweeted about UX Check, whereas only 0.9% of Hacker news users tweeted.The final interesting metric to compare engagement is average time spent on the website. On average, Product Hunt users spent 45 seconds on UXcheck.co, whereas Hacker News users only spent 30 seconds on the site.With Product Hunt, the UX Check website had a smaller traffic drop-off than with Hacker News:The difference here likely stems from a few things: 1) Product Hunt uses infinite scroll, so it’s very easy to see older posts. 2) Hacker News has way more submissions per day than Product Hunt, so there is no easy way to see “yesterday’s” front page. 3) Product Hunters tweeted about UX Check more, so its visibility lived on over the next few days.Since the launch, I’ve been working hard on V2 of UX Check. It will remain free and Never mind the llamas, just grab the elephants. PM at Imgur. Formerly PM at Microsoft.

A few weeks ago, Let’s consider just the first decision point of cdixon’s idea maze:Given a search or recommendations engine having 80–90% accuracy, there are 1 of 2 things you can do:Now let’s look across the spectrum, from super-specific, navigational searches to broad recommendations, and figure out what the right decision to make is for each of these cases.Broad searches (e.g. “lunch”, “dinner”, “books” etc.) can have more than 1 right answer. If I’m in the mood for lunch, and type [lunch] in Foursquare, I might get a result list like this:After looking at a few options in the results list, I might realize that I’m in the mood for Vietnamese food and result #3 is where I want to go right now. But for a search engine, knowing that result #3 is the most relevant to you given your current mood is very hard to figure out. This is where a fault-tolerant UX becomes important.The classic fault-tolerant UX that search engines use, is to show Pure, You again need to build a fault-tolerant UX, more fault-tolerant than what broad searches need. Given that you have the same amount of screen space as broad searches (a mobile or desktop screen), most good recommendation engines invest more in explaining (i.e. selling) the results to the users. Here are some ways you can do that:Result push notifications are the at the broadest end of the search/recommendations spectrum. These are pure intent-less recommendations. The user never expresses any intent. Instead, based on the current context, the app decides that the user might have an intent at this point of time and pushes content to the user.It’s very easy to pick and send a very poor push notification. So ideally, you want a really fault-tolerant UX here, with very clearly explained results.But, unfortunately, that’s not a luxury you can afford. Given the very limited amount of screen space that push notifications get, it’s virtually impossible to build fault-tolerance.So we have to go back to the other arm of the decision flow, and invest in narrowing the domain and improving accuracy within the narrow domain. For push notifications, it’s really important to be very relevant. Knowing the user and the context really well and sending notifications only when we are very confident that the user will find them relevant is the way to go here.One of the key takeaways here is that for relevance products, relevance (data) and UX are strongly interdependent. Building a great search, recommendations or notification product requires a close interaction between the relevance and UX disciplines. It’s very easy to fall into the design-first or data-first methodology for solving these problems, but the right solution often lies in close interaction between those two.Engineering Manager @ Quora. Previously worked on search at Foursquare and Bing.

It’s 12:2o AM on a Tuesday night on the East Coast. I’m almost ready for bed and went to check I had just finished watching Thierry became so obsessed, in fact that he wound up deciding to become a street artist himself. In order to do so, he first needed a name and a purpose. So he became Mr. Brainwash. He took ‘shortcuts’ to fame by hiring graphic designers to produce the work for him, publicists to publicize it, and art handlers to hang it. Mr. Brainwash was just there to lend a direction (i.e. set the ‘experience’) while others created his vision. He put together an amazing show, UX Designers are often taking a similar path.To ‘learn’ UX, all one needs is to take a class at To ‘do’ UX, you can simply make suggestions to improve an existing site or app, sketch out some flows and voila! The barrier to entry is low — anyone with an opinion and the ability to communicate that opinion has every right to call themselves a UX Designer. Like the transformation Thierry made into Mr. Brainwash, anyone can decide to take the transformation from whatever they are currently doing to become a UX practitioner of some sort. No tests required, no proof of certifications, no nothin’.How can such a thing be considered to be a profession? What even is a profession?According to and something is determined to be a considered a profession by the following:Like Mr. Brainwash becoming a famous street artist overnight, anyone can hang up their shingle and declare themselves to be a UX Designer.It’s not so bad. Many jobs (like Now, I’m not saying we should shame or invalidate those who decide to just call themselves something without proof to back it up. But for a ‘rising tide’ effect to take place there needs to be a greater institutionalization and standardization of certain things (processes, methods, deliverables, ethics) around UX so that there is a clear pathway to success (and failure!) amongst those who pick up the torch.Whether it’s paying the The point isn’t to create thousands of roadblocks — it’s to promote greater accountability, identify ways to rank, score, and separate good UX from bad UX, and articulate profession-wide responsibility. Heck, there are Product Designer, Dubstep Enthusiast, Runner, Mountain Biker, Gardener, Sith Lord. None of the posts I write are the opinion of my employer.

After Nathan’s keynote, I got the impression that two different points of view are intermingled in this conference. The first one is how to integrate a UX design into a corporate (or business) strategy, i.e. UX Design for Corporate Strategy, and the second one is a strategic viewpoint of UX design, i.e. Strategy for UX Design.I asked Paul, who is the founder of UX STRAT, about this point directly. He answered that UX STRAT was a conference exactly to discuss this point. He told me that he had a vision that UX design could be integrated into a corporate / business strategy, and he organized UX STRAT to actualize this vision. In fact, I felt that this subject was realized by lots of attendees, I heard similar conversations everywhere and saw them on Twitter with a ‘#uxstrat’ hashtag.These days, UX design is not only an issue of product / service development, but it is also starting to have a meaning for business overall. So, organizations have to consider how to introduce UX design into their business. This conference revealed that there are some stages of integration. On each stage, there is a right process and a right role definition. An organization should choose the right combination depending on the maturity of the organization and UX team. There was a panel discussion on “who is the owner of UX strategy?” There were a wide variety of suggestions such as the project manager, project owner, or product manager. The variety of the role corresponds to the stages, so all of them are right, but we should recognize that our agenda is to establish “which stage our organization is at.This is the issue that Paul wanted to address within UX STRAT; it was a great result that we could share this viewpoint.In Japan, the term UX Design is only considered to be an advanced UI design, even now. Design Thinking or Service Design are rather popular. However, the integration is still at in early stages.Regarding the Service Design, I wondered why no-one had mentioned things related to service design. Service Design is a concept to restructure a business with customer values, so in other words, UX Strategy could be defined as a strategy for an organization to renew an oriented Service Design.I continue this discussion in the next UX STRAT and UX Strategy Japan community.Information Architect, President of Concent

Hi, my name is Ben G and I wanted to give aspiring designers tips on changing careers and making it to the Silicon Valley! User Experience Design can be a brutal field to enter into if you are unprepared. I experienced much disappointment and regret in my career path. However, when you succeed, the feeling is overwhelming and exciting! Previously, I was a contract UX Design Lead at Gap Inc. GID division. Currently, I am an Experience Designer on the Marketing Cloud team at Adobe.—  I hope this helps aspiring UX Designers out there! I really want to help aspiring designers to pursue their dream careers. I am still learning and that is the best part of design!Shoot me an email! I would love to chat! Follow me on Twitter! Connect with me on Linkedin! 37.787875 -122.392224Designer 

How can UX designers produce high quality work in a fast-paced sprint-based agile team? Does the systematic UX design process make it inherently contradictory with agile principles? After working closely with one of our client’s agile teams for almost a year, we learned the many complexities a UX designer would encounter when integrating user centred design into an engineering-driven team. Understanding these complexities allows us to adopt an efficient new design process that helps produce better designed products faster.Since August 2014, we have been working closely with an enterprise software scrum team for a complete redesign of an existing desktop application: ReMetrica, an enterprise risk and economic capital modelling tool mainly used by actuaries. The software has been in the market for many years and is in the process of a complete redesign for a major version update. The client’s development team consists of several experienced C#/.NET developers, scrum masters and product owners, distributed in two teams located in London and Singapore.Although we were brought in as external consultants, it became clear early in the beginning of the engagement that the traditional agency work process — where designers work separately from the client and produce detailed design specifications as deliverables — does not work anymore because of the vast amount of complexity and uncertainty in the requirements. While there are visions for the new release from the product owners, these visions weren’t translated into concrete features yet. Therefore, we agreed to embed two of our designers inside our client’s development team in Singapore, which could help reduce communication friction and improve designer-developer collaboration.As part of understanding the product and the users, we attended the “Basic training workshop” for users, and also conducted interviews with their users in Singapore and London.We conducted several requirement workshops with the product owners, production team, and users to explore the problems with the software and also ideas for resolving them.. We then jumped straight into tackling these major design challenges. At that stage, the development team was mainly focusing on finishing an initial release of the software with basic features on the new technical infrastructure .At this point, we worked outside of the scrum sprint cycles and most of our designs weren’t implemented until a much later stage. Our initial work process was:Here is a diagram that illustrates the old process:This work process was soon proved to exhibit multiple issues:After identifying these issues, the team worked to adopt a new work process that helps better facilitate team communication, and as a result, got design into implementation faster.Enterprise software products usually have huge and complex features. UX designers working with agile teams need to work with product owners and scrum masters to break down big features into smaller chunks of user stories to be able to fit into short sprint time frame.While there might be a million “nice to have” features or enhancements to a product, it is important to find and prioritise the core part of every feature for the initial release. Because agile development teams all have limited time and budget, focusing on a smaller set of features or requirements usually results in better user experience than a bigger set of features, especially when the team does not have many UX designers.Besides communicating to product owners and scrum masters, UX designers should also include developers early in the design process to “sanity check” their designs. Designing with developers also gives you many useful insights and ideas that would not surface if the team only communicates design to developers through document specifications.In an agile team environment, the design or requirements may change rapidly in short time frames. Therefore it is often better for UX designer to adopt a “show, not tell” mentality at work. This means designers should produce prototypes to demonstrate how a feature “could work” instead of how they “should work” and validate their assumptions through user testing and feedbacks.Have you worked as a UX designer in an agile team before? We would like to know your design process and what you learned through the experience. Please tell us what you think by leaving us a comment!Interaction Designer at Minitheory is a digital design studio, based in sunny Singapore. We make software simple, based on how people think and behave. 

← (Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Вот она — одна из ключевых частей психологии! Та часть, в которой мы узнаем почему наши зрачки то расширяются, то сужаются; что заставляет слезы литься ручьем, и почему щеки краснеют. Итак, наша тема сегодня:1) Есть две категории эмоций: “взлеты” и “падения”.2) Эмоция — это реакция, а не цель.3) Со временем эмоции становятся все более сложными.Эмоции бывают двух видов: хорошие и плохие. Позитивные и негативные. Счастливые и не очень. Все просто, да?Представьте, что я закрою вас в темном ящике, предназначение которого — сделать вас счастливым. Закрою вас навсегда, одного и ещё выброшу в открытый космос. Вы не сможете ни с кем общаться и ничего контролировать. Ну как ощущения?Хммм… Наверное не самые приятные… Так вот, если вы озабочены только тем, чтобы пользователи были “счастливы”, считайте, что вы засовываете их в тот ящик. И уже через пять минут им там … не очень-то здорово.Как UX-дизайнер, вы должны предложить пользователям пути достижения целей и дать соответствующую обратную связь , чтобы вызвать Ну или просто предложите пользователю узнать, Наши эмоции (или, другими словами, настроение) все время меняются. В пределах разумного, это — нормально. Если это выходит за рамки, кажется что человек сбежал с реалити-шоу.Но речь не о том, что происходит здесь и сейчас. Речь о Когда мы видим яркую коробку с бантиком, мы думаем: “Когда кто-то говорит “нам надо поговорить”, мы думаем: “В том “подарке” могли быть змеи, но мы все равно будем ему Если мы ожидаем какой-то гадости (как если бы на подарке было бы написано “А вот, по-моему, еще более интересная эмоция — Именно так эмоции взаимодействуют со временем.Когда кто-то говорит “нам надо поговорить”, наша первая реакция, скорее всего, — Как UX-дизайнер, вы должны думать о чем-то большем, чем просто счастье. Управляйте чувствами пользователей на протяжении взаимодействия с сайтом: давайте им ту информацию и сигналы, которые помогут им комфортно достигать целей.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Наша жизнь наполнена солнечным светом, искусственным светом, теплом, холодом, одеждой, брендами, модой и миллионом других вещей, которые влияют на наше восприятие цвета. Вас, как UX-дизайнера, может и не интересует модель Пантон и всякие профессиональные руководства. Но основы вы знать обязаны. Итак,Как UX-дизайнеры, мы обычно делаем wireframe-ы черно-белыми. И правильно! Мы концентрируемся на функционале, в то время как UI-дизайнеры концентрируются на стиле.Однако, иногда цвет является На картинке сверху мы видим трех уточек: голубую, желтую и красную. Они таким симпатичные! Все уточки на фотографии выполнены в разных тональностях, и очень просто представить как цвет влияет на “роль” каждой из них.Если бы утки были кнопками, то они бы означали: подтвердить, отменить и удалить. Если бы они были засечками на топливном баке, то гласили бы: полный, полупустой, пустой. Или если бы они располагались на духовке, то означали бы холодно, тепло и горячо.Идея вам понятна: уточки одинаковые, но значение каждой зависит от цвета. Если вы не собираетесь использовать цвет как функцию, то пусть цвета выбирает UI-дизайнер. В противном случае, пусть за вас говорит Еще нужно помнить, что цвета могут быть “громкими” и “тихими”. На второй картинке мы видим красную уточку и двух синеватых. И красная, казалось бы, даже стоит ближе, не так ли? Не так. Что-то вроде кнопки “Купить” должно быть окрашено в цвет, который прямо-таки “выпрыгивает” из экрана. На кнопку, которая “выпирает” (кажется ближе), нажмут больше людей.С другой стороны, иногда нам нужно создать отдаленные элементы, которые видны пользователю, но не отвлекают его (как эти синеватые уточки). Они находятся “позади” (другими словами, утоплены). Это хорошее решение для меню, которое всегда находится на экране. “Кричащее” меню нам ни к чему. Оно отвлекает внимание от более важных вещей.Цветные wireframe-ы только мешают восприятию технических деталей. Используйте цвета только там, где они имеют значение. И не стоит красить wireframe синим в стиле светокопии. А также не стоит “приодевать” wireframe в какой-нибудь цвет для клиента. Это приведет к неправильному понимаю цвета: “Нет, сам сайт синим не будет…”Цвет очень хорошо помогает при создании визуального веса (из вчерашнего урока). Что-то большое привлекает внимание пользователя, а что-то большое и красное он точно не пропустит! Поэтому убедитесь, что ошибки и предупреждения красные и контрастные. Или, если вы просто подтверждаете какое-либо действие пользователя, используйте небольшие размеры и спокойные цвета, вроде зеленого.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

← (Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: О, детка! Приглуши свет… зажги свечи и достань клубнику в шоколаде… потому что сегодня мы поглубже окунемся в изучение тех двух мотивов, которые сближают людей онлайн и оффлайн…Секс — это потребность трогать теплые и пушистые части тела друг друга, а любовь — это потребность, которая сама вся такая теплая и пушистая. Сегодня мы постараемся изучить оба мотива, и вы удивитесь, насколько они разные!Но для начала, немного официальности:Секс — Эти два правила могут показаться простыми, но в паре они могут лежать в основе очень интересных сценариев.Как, например, в шоу “Как драматично!Порно-сайты, к примеру, активнее всех применяют A/B-тестирование и оптимизируют дизайн, рекламу и поиск по сайту. И им надо учитывать, что у их посетителей только одна рука свободна, чтобы лазить по сайту. Серьезно!А у нас существует мотивация Если секс — скоротечная и поверхностная штука, то любовь — наоборот… Она сделана из мечт и снов… Как же это мило!Ты можешь любить свою половинку, детей, семью — но все это разная любовь. В этом уроке мы поговорим о любви к своей второй половинке.Романтическая Любовь, по сути, это потребность Мы обычно выбираем спутника жизни, который разделяет наши ценности (то есть согласен что хорошо, а что плохо в этой жизни), поэтому ваш дизайн должен давать людям возможность найти Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

Trovebox is a Two years ago our photo gallery looked much different than it does today. It was a grid of cropped photos with pagination links. The user interface was terrible and the user experience worse.Photo collections often contain tens of thousands of photographs and serve a single purpose; to be visually consumed. Moving your mouse cursor over a link and clicking to see the next twenty-five photos felt arcane. Infinite scrolling began gaining popularity many years ago but brought along new sets of problems. While I believe most users enjoy infinite scrolling there’s a vocal minority who abhor it. Rightfully so, perhaps.Infinite scrolling tends to break a number of behaviors we’ve become accustomed to on the web; mundane tasks like deep linking to content and using the browser’s back button. Tasks we take for granted until we can no longer do them.We didn’t have all the answers but knew that a user interface with infinite scrolling would be better than our older paginated one. Our primary goal was making it enjoyable to view as many photos as possible as quickly as possible. Our new gallery adopted a fixed height masonry layout that minimized cropping and automatically loaded more photos as you reached the bottom of the page.The masonry layout required less mental energy to browse photos; leading to a more enjoyable viewing experience.We realized as you view photos you aren’t thinking about pages or having to click to see more. Our minds have been trained to do that but it‘s a disruptive experience. This is where infinite scroll shines.When we launched infinite scroll we knew we gave up some nice-to-haves. They weren’t critical for us but were important enough that we created a Our infinite scrolling interface works so well you’ll find yourself on the twentieth page of photos without realizing it. That’s great news but users have become accustomed to copying a link with the expectation that it will point to what they just saw. Infinite scroll isn’t a reason we should ask our users to change their habits. The problem has many nuances though and the solution isn’t as straightforward once you put yourself in your users’ shoes.It seemed obvious that we could use With a mix of I haven’t seen an implementation of infinite scrolling which handles this and we couldn’t come up with an intuitive way to make it. That led us back to the drawing board to come up with some ideas. At minimum we could let the user know there are prior pages of photos. We quickly realized that’s just as terrible as not indicating it at all.Shortly after realizing how terrible our idea was it dawned on us that we could include pagination similar to what we had in our older user interface. But only when the gallery was deep linked; starting on pages 2 and higher.Our infinite scroll interface started to show signs of having the best of both worlds. The most common navigation was easier by an order of magnitude and less common navigation was as easy as it’s always been.While we’re very happy with the results there’s more work to be done. How should the back button work? What about search engine optimization?We hope to tackle these issues next. But for the time being we believe we’re 90% of the way there. That last 10% will keep us busy.Footnotes: At Trovebox we not only use a tremendous amount of open source software but we release the majority of our work as open source. You can Photos in the screenshots were taken by This is where I keep my tweets.

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: В завершение раздела, посвященного психологии пользователя, мы бегло сравним, как отличается восприятие новичка от восприятия опытного пользователя:С точки зрения статистики, Большинство пользователей любого продукта или приложения (за исключением самых высокотехнологичных) — В ходе большинства проектов вы столкнетесь с ситуацией, когда нужно решить, насколько “чистым” будет ваш лэйаут.Дизайнеры обычно принимают решение все попрятать, потому что так лучше смотрится.Не-дизайнеры хотят, чтобы их любимые функции все время были на виду (и для каждого человека этот набор любимых функций будет разным).Так как же принять решение?Люди Убедитесь, что новички могут с легкостью найти ключевые функции. В идеале — даже не кликая никуда. И постарайтесь, чтобы у продвинутых пользователей был доступ к мощным функциям, даже если они Выберите несколько опций и разместите их на видном месте. Потом будете благодарны мне за совет.Сколько различных иконок вы можете припомнить, прямо сейчас?А сколько из них вы узнаете, если я дам вам список?Если вы обычный человек, то вторая цифра будет намного больше.Если предполагается, что люди в вашем интерфейсе будут задавать какие-то вопросы — как, например, при поиске — имейте в виду: они будут оперировать только теми понятиями и функциями, которые смогут припомнить. Это означает, что со временем они будут использовать все меньше и меньше функций. Точно не больше.Если пользователям приходится иметь дело с большими объемами информации, подскажите им категории, которые могут их интересовать, или сделайте еще что-нибудь, чтобы Понятие Но что происходит, когда пользователь пользуется вашим интерфейсом вот уже пару лет?Привычки рождаются очень быстро, поэтому нужно проектировать “быстрые способы” доступа к функциям, даже если они не столь очевидны. Продвинутые пользователи не пожалеют времени и освоят эти способы ради более высокой продуктивности в дальнейшем. Этот подход иллюстрируют и “Горячие” клавиши, и опции меню правой кнопки мыши, и все эти штуки в Твиттере, типа “.@” в твитах.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Может в основе UX и лежат дизайнерские навыки, но чтобы создавать хорошие UX-дизайны, вам необходимо понимать как люди мыслят. До этого мы концентрировались на самом дизайне, поэтому сегодня начнем изучать один из трех базовых уроков о психологии пользователя:Условные рефлексы никак не связаны с тем, например, на какие расстояния вы можете бегать. Но они очень даже связаны с тем, чего вы ожидаете или хотите.Если вы слышали о На самом деле, если у вас есть собака, то вы, наверное, даже пользовались ее условными рефлексами, дрессируя ее сидеть, давать лапу, заполнять налоговую декларацию и так далее.На людях все это также замечательно работает.Суть понятия “Это может показаться очевидным, но 99% знакомых мне дизайнеров игнорируют этот принцип при UX-проектировании. Даже несмотря на то, что это единственный способ вызвать настоящие привыкание к дизайну.Когда разговор заходит о награждении пользователей, 9 из 10 человек автоматически представляют себе возможность выиграть iPhone, или билеты в кино, или что-то еще, такое же тупое.Слушайте, мы же тут говорим о миллионах пользователей. У вас что, нет личной жизни?Самые эффективные награды и наказания Представьте себе, что человек вызвал вас на сцену и объявил 50,000 людям, что вы — один из лучших друзей в его жизни и что вы своим присутствием делаете мир лучше.Вам бы захотелось еще разок повторить это событие? Наверняка да.Теперь представьте, что на сцене вам сообщили, что ваша семья и друзья проголосовали за вас как за “самого бесполезного человека”.Хотелось бы повторить? Скорее всего нет.Я, конечно же, преувеличиваю — если только вы не участлик реалити шоу — но заметьте: вам ничего не дарили и у вас ничего не отнимали. Все дело в восприятии. Но чувства, вызванные этим восприятием, могут быть достаточно мощными!Так как же использовать условные рефлексы в дизайне?Фишка в том, чтобы создать замкнутую петлю чувств и поступков, которая превратит пользование вашим сайтом в постоянное поощрение. Вот базовая модель “петли” обратной связи:К примеру, предположим, что вы сделали милое фото своего ребенка. Вы И получаете Facebook разработал эти способы обратной связи, чтобы мотивировать вас снова выложить фото ребенка и запустить эту “петлю” по новой!“Петля” будет продолжать существовать, пока люди будут обеспечивать обратную связь или пока вас не “накажут” те, кого бесит очередная долбаная фотография этого маленького монстра!Гипотетически.К примеру, недавно были популярны игры про ферму — не будем называть имен — где активное участие в игре делало вас крупным фермером, со временем все более преуспевающим (награда). Если вы прекращали играть надолго, то урожай погибал (наказание). Но… вы могли еще и заплатить, чтобы ускорить рост урожая и заполучить всякие инструменты для своей фермы (большая награда!).Неудивительно, что эта игра была одной из самых популярных в свое время.Условные рефлексы управляют каждым и всегда. Однако, мы все подвержены разным рефлексам. Поэтому у вас есть любимый цвет, и поэтому вы придерживаетесь какого-то стиля в одежде, и поэтому запах МакДональдста для меня такой наркотически-притягательный.Не стоит думать, что все любят какие-либо вещи так же, как и вы.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

(Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Юзабилити — это существенная часть мира UX. Кроме того, юзабилити играет основную роль в большинстве проектов (если не во всех!). В основе юзабилити лежит одно когнитивное искажение. Оно влияет на нашу способность прогнозировать будущие события и собственные ощущения:Что бы ни происходило с нами в данный момент (или в ближайшее время) — это важнее чем то, что произойдет позднее (в будущем).Это влияет на наше ощущение ценности, на восприятие собственных чувств и на принятие важных решений.Именно поэтому у большинства людей никак не получается откладывать деньги. И по той же причине воплощение в жизнь наших планов занимает больше времени, чем мы предполагали.Люди толстеют потому, что вредные вкусняшки Еще пример: мы с увлечением проходим тест “Кто ты в сериале Интерны?” (что, по сути, бесполезно), но совершенно не готовы с увлечением учить высшую математику 4 года (что, вероятно, изменит нашу жизнь).Мы с вами уже обсуждали, Представьте, что я предложу вам $100 сейчас, или $200 через год. В реальной жизни вы, вероятно, возьмете $100, несмотря на то, что сумма будет в два раза больше через год.Теперь представьте, что вы хотите чего-то, что стоит $100 сейчас, или $50 в следующем году, или по $10 в месяц на протяжении следующих 12 месяцев.В реальной жизни, большинство людей охотнее заплатят по $10 в месяц — как и вы, когда покупали тот айфон в кредит — просто потому, что на момент “сейчас” это был самый выгодный вариант. И даже не смотря на то, что в итоге этот вариант окажется самым дорогим.Работая в сфере UX, мы все время говорим о юзабилити. Чаще всего мы хотим, чтобы все было проще, быстрее, проще. Именно этого пользователь хочет Все в вашем дизайне должно быть направлено на то, чтобы как можно быстрее “подтолкнуть” пользователей к нужным действиям.Но еще важно, чтобы самые “Как на Facebook.Когда вы пытаетесь деактивировать учетную запить на Facebook, они, при помощи гиперболического дисконтирования, заставляют вас передумать.Форма длинная и скучная, так что ваше настроение постепенно падает. Ближе к концу, они показывают вам фотки друзей, которых вы “потеряете”. Все эти чувства постепенно вытесняют ваше первичное желание уничножить Facebook (и все, что с ним связано).Большинство людей не продержится до конца, хотя, чисто технически, ничего их не останавливает.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

Quando comecei a trabalhar com publicidade, a figura do Diretor de Criação da agência era uma.Normalmente ele tinha trabalhado como Diretor de Arte por muitos anos, depois começou a coordenar um pequeno grupo de criativos, até ir aos poucos assumindo contas e responsabilidades maiores e chegar à posição de Diretor de Criação.O interessante é que, ao mesmo tempo em que esse profissional percorreu a trajetória vertical (de criativo-chão-de-fábrica até chegar à diretoria criativa), ele também percorreu um caminho horizontal de E isso não faz muito tempo, não, juro. Menos de 10 anos.Aos poucos fui vendo esse perfil de Diretor de Criação mudar um pouco. Quando me dei conta, a minha própria Diretora de Criacão era a primeira com um background de UX / Arquitetura de Informação da qual eu já tinha ouvido falar (pelo menos no Brasil).Corta a cena, alguns anos depois, vejo mais e mais profissionais de UX se tornando diretores de criação.Mas antes que esse pareça ser o caso, o objetivo aqui não é discutir se isso é “tendência” ou não entre as agências e os profissionais que nelas trabalham. Talvez seja só o UX Designer ganhando visibilidade e conquistando seu espaço da mesma forma que os Diretores de Arte e Redatores fizeram há vários anos.O interessante é observar as características de cada tipo de líder criativo.Quem trabalha em agência e tem um Diretor de Criação Quando você começa a trabalhar diretamente com Mas vamos lá:Se o tal “Diretor de Criação com background de UX” é crescente ou não nas agências, só o tempo dirá. Mas existem agências em outros países onde os profissionais de UX assumem cargos não apenas de Direção Criativa, mas também outros cargos executivos e de Vice-Presidência.Um fato -um tanto óbvio- é que quando o seu Diretor de Criação tem background de UX, você como UX Designer também passa a ter mais voz dentro do time. É interessante ver a composição de times diferentes, liderados por Redatores, Diretores de Arte e UX Designers, e perceber a diferença no resultado final do projeto e na troca de papéis de cada um dentro da equipe.E aí quem sabe esse gráfico bem humorado do início do post não mude um pouco com o passar dos anos.Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Creative lab in 27th floor of a commercial block somewhere in New York was filled with anxiety and restlessness among the 20- 30 employees (of a design firm) who were juggling with their eyes between their screens and the classy glass discussion room (with 2 people ) as if they were watching nadal vs djokovic again, Not to wonder only coincidence being a hot furious argument between two middle aged men which was going on for the past 6 hours behind the glass walls. One being the Creative Lead of the firm other the User Experience Head were taking an antipodal stand on a header design for their client who happens to be an E Commerce for leather products.“What ? Are you serious ? where they fighting hard over an 460 X 60 pixels strip” questioned a new bee employee .. his colleague replied “yes” .“You see you can’t ignore every single pixel if you got to give a greatuser interface, so they sort thing out.”The Creative person had header which was a skeuomorphic design of leather which he feels it could create a On the other hand User Experience Expert wanted the piece leather go off as he did not want any experiment.. as none of the competitors don’t do it , the new E-commerce cannot afford any bounce visitors / Exit Visitors just because of some fancy header.When the two came out, they knew had to answer their long time audiences, and the creative person broke out that they tied i.e they would go on for two experimental demo pages with leather header and the other with a light gradient for one week of testing and to settle with one, someone in the crowd said “ i knew it” in a tone of winning a NHL match perdition.Series of Usability test were put forwardTheir click ratio, mouse direction ratio and time duration are followed and a end result derived.Though there few were other usability fix .. the result clearly prove that the fancy lather has to go off. The UX and creative lead headed to bar nearby kidding about ferocious yet health conversation they had behind the glass door.This incident has been taking now and then in every design firm to constructive solution. Not the criticism of a good art the leather was asked to go but the fact that it was distracting the users eye much in trying out target product of the website.Recent Research by Paul Bolls associate professor of strategic communication and Researcher at the University of Missouri found out the real methods of making The brain can only process so much information at a timeToo much information can overload it and cancel out understandingBest way to get more brain or user engagement is by proper motivation like simple stories and pictures.The simpler the design, the better the brain gets motivatedThis is also the reason by which all big guns go minimalWe saw the news websites, Google on Clean grey shaded apps and web interfaceApple motivated by Zen inspired Jobs is rumored to shed of skeuomorphic UI after the departure of Scott Forstall.Its not that people hate skeuomorphic as an art its just it pays bad when usability comes into mindThere has been many article for a quite a long time about Usability controlling a creativity in a person and even a small decisions like choosing between two shades of blue are being tested and much more stories. It’s generally because of a growing designer in digital medium .. at a point he has to between Creativity and analytic fields (UX).Now since the UX results have paved off great results and is termed more scientific approach to web design its by no doubt that Creativity is threatened . But there are many aspects of web where you can show off out of planet skills … such as your portfolio website or a customary campaign for your client need not be user friendly governed, but when you have a client trusting that you give great website which is supposed to drive a lot of traffic and generate a handful of revenue you can’t put him in insecure experiments. A whole a lot of creativity can make out wonder under user experience limits and vice verse of your clients benefitUX Designer..Anti- Racist,Future Entrepreneur ..95% Feminist!! Creative Strategist, Jugaad Enthusiast, LEGO lover

Aquí en Creo que la mejor definición de UX que he encontrado de las miles y diversas que existen en el medio es ésta:Lo digo porque la UX debe conseguir que un producto se perciba como algo útil y fácil de usar, no sirve un producto usable e inútil. Un producto ideal tendría que ser satisfactorio, eficaz y eficiente… un producto útil no necesariamente tiene que tener estos tres componentes. Dicho en palabras No confundir con la usabilidad, esta no es UX, la usabilidad es una cualidad inherente a todo producto que debe proporcionar la capacidad de utilizar (de utilizarla “bien”) un producto para su uso previsto.Pero entonces, De los principios de LeanUX, me quedo con este proceso continuo que debe implantarse en el desarrollo de vuestro producto:Cada quien puede optar por un método u otro e incluso por fusionarlos o crear nuevas formas de enfrentarse a los retos que supone el desarrollo de un producto digital. Lo importante es saber integrar estos métodos en el día a día. Tomad el ejemplo de Ahora sí a los que nos interesa,Pues bien, antes que nada, hay que tener en cuenta que el equipo mínimo para que funcione este proceso A esto hay que añadir lo que yo llamaría recursos “satélites” que son personas que participa en el proceso en momentos como la gente de contenidos, cuando toca, nuestro back-end o el equipo de soporte que, más adelante veremos cómo participa activamente en el proceso de UX de nuestra app.Notad que no quiero decir que tenga que haber un diseñador o sólo un front-end en la empresa, no, de hecho tenemos hay más de uno en cada equipo, tened en cuenta que estoy hablando de un “¡Eh, un momento! diréis, pero esto nos sirve para ilustrar un poco cómo hacer en el proceso de trabajo de una feature propuesta para nuestra app, pero y antes de esto, Pues yo os pregunto: Ahora mismo, podríais responder... ¿Dónde será utilizada la UI por tu audiencia? o ¿cuán a menudo será su interacción? o ¿qué necesitan conocer previo a su uso? ¿son capaces de aprender a usarla? ¿por cuánto tiempo tu audiencia interactuará con la app? ¿la interacción es muy compleja? y ¿qué pasa si los usuarios fallan? ¿cuán centrados estarán los usuarios en ella? Investiga, mira y escucha a tus usuarios.¿Cuál es mi modelo de negocio y merece la pena desarrollarlo?Las respuestas a estas preguntas no las vais a resolver en la comodidad del garage donde funciona tu start up, no. Las vas a resolver hablando, entrevistando, investigando, proponiendo el “saber hacer bien” de tu Afortunadamente tenemos on line una serie de apps para ayudarnos en la investigación que hace falta. Podéis serviros de Además de estas herramientas tenemos un Debéis olvidaros de trabajar bajo supuestos, los supuestos no aportan absolutamente nada y sólo generan parálisis de análisis, la UX en una start up asegura la influencia estratégica de las decisiones empresariales en términos de nuevas propuestas de valor a desarrollar. Contribuye a la elección de diseños a ser desarrollados que contribuyan a los objetivos de negocio y desarrolla procesos que serán utilizados para guiar la forma en que opera la organización… sin ella la toma de decisiones se vuelve un laberinto inacabable, los desacuerdos en el equipo crean confusión y detienen la marcha del proyecto, no entiendes a tu usuario y mil desgracias más. Creedme, yo he vivido estas situaciones en start ups donde la palabra divina del Si tenéis en mente realizar pruebas con usuarios mucho más extensas podéis probar Además de estas herramientas, tenemos siempre disponible el hang out de Google debido a la diversidad de sitios desde los que el equipo se conecta (Luego, todo el proceso se monitoriza con ¿Cómo se integra investigación y desarrollo ? Según Recomienda además que mucho más valor se aporta a una app si usamos menos screens, menos botones, menos factor “wow” y menos features (por propia experiencia he vivido la transformación de excelentes ideas con un “saber hacer bien” en aplastantes derrotas por “O dicho de otra forma:Designer, working at SocialBro.com, leanUX enthusiast, father of two and husband, write UX stuff on my blog UXinPeru.com 

A few days ago a group of around 20 designers and founders met up at the offices of We kicked off with a series of lightning talks by Iain Roberts (We then opened the floor up to a general discussion around instilling design thinking from the top of organisations. Three of the themes that emerged are below.Understanding exactly what their input is contributing to a wider goal may solve some of the pain of ‘siloed’ departments and communication breakdown. This makes it important that a company mission is tangible, meaningful and widely shared, something that design can help to solve.Nothing explains what you’re trying to achieve better than a simple piece of design — whether that’s a ux flow, a clickable prototype or just a sketch on a piece of paper. It can aid understanding but also excitement about what the product could be.The speed at which product and UX design is evolving (and being increasingly valued) means the traditional skill set of the ‘graphic designer’ may no longer be enough for most companies. Yet a mixture of traditional design education and a large part of the design industry valuing visual polish over other skills means many designers aren’t able to adapt to these needs.Design as a fundamental part of the process of building a product is still not fully recognised, meaning non-designers looking to hire their first designer are often looking at the wrong things. The graphic designer, able to produce beautiful presentations and UIs, may not be able to think deeply about the experience of the product they’re trying to build.How can founders better sort the value from the gloss when hiring? Solving this may in turn lead to a general uplift in design understanding as these values become more widely recognised and sought-after.The debate around these themes (and more) is far from over, and we hope to run more events in the future to help develop this understanding and continue learning from some of the brightest minds in London’s design scene.Leading design 

The timeline from We want to be amused, challenged, involved and delighted, until we don’t: then we want something else.Repeat.The novelty curve in games and apps arcs from ease of adoption to difficulty of gaining skills, and bends from how quickly people get hooked to how long they will stay hooked.Shorter: Not so easy that it’s boring, not so hard that it’s impossible; and filled with frequent but intermittent surprises, penalties and rewards.Get it right, and people will play for a long time and make in-app purchases; get it wrong, and the abandonment rate will be too high, too soon for it to be profitable, whether the revenue stream is dollars or data.Old example: Tamagotchi digital pets, V1, needed food, water, and playtime. The revenue model was the first sale of a physical item, followed by repeat sales. Users got hooked on the slow fire of a controlled, and manageable habit that smolders on much longer than the all-consuming flames that burn twice as bright.New example: An iPad update of the digital pets idea, And while a young demographic is happy to play along for a while, the discovery that the digital circle of life turns faster with in-app purchases reveals to the user that the endless cycles of acquisition, improvement, and gentle but insistent alerts to “Come back now, your habitat is overflowing with coins,” are just another form of going shopping.The moment the machinery showed through the interface, what was fun, wasn’t anymore — and that’s when the young user in my house stopped playing.Game over.Related: “You’re not the customer. You’re the product.experience architecture = ux + ixd + ia + content strategy #becauseawesome 

UX Notları mail listesine UI designer, developer. Co-founder of Haftalık derlenen UX ve UI tasarım notları. UX süreçleri, araçları, tasarım fikirleri.

Вы должно быть слышали историю про слона:История про слона напомнила мне о разнице взглядов на дизайн людей с различными знаниями, образованием и опытом. Графический дизайнер смотрит на UX дизайн с одной точки зрения, дизайнер взаимодействия с другой, а программист с третьей. Может быть очень полезным понять и “прикоснуться к той части слона, к которой прикасались другие”.Я психолог по образованию, и поэтому часть слона с которой я взаимодействую относится к тому, что мы знаем о людях и как мы можем применить это в UX дизайне. Я применила исследования и знания о Эта статья представляет собой взгляд на слона с точки зрения психолога.

Last week we held a UX research session on Project Ara, the modular smartphone coming from The cognitive walkthrough is a usability inspection method where a group of experts step through tasks in a system and identify problems along the way. It’s like a one-on-one usability session, but instead of recruiting potential users, you’re using UX designers and researchers (who are new to the project) as your guinea pigs. And instead of conducting a series of time consuming one-at-a-time sessions, you get the feedback from the whole group all at once. On the other end of the spectrum, the cog walk is also similar to a design critique, but in this case the reviewers are evaluating the work from a user task point of view, rather than stepping back to look at the whole system. And unlike in a typical review, designers aren’t allowed to defend or explain their decisions. They have to sit quietly and accept the feedback as it comes.We used Google Slides as the tool for our walkthrough. In advance of the in-person session, I built out a slide deck. It included some ground rules for the cog walk and context on Project Ara, then three “golden path” user flows around the Ara experience. Slides was a helpful tool because I could share the work in progress with the product manager and researcher, refining the presentation for the meeting based on their comments. For the first two user flows, I stepped through high-fidelity mocks in the chrome of the mobile device. For the third flow, a flow that also included more of the physical interaction with the Ara phone, I used a combination of hand-drawn storyboard sketches and UI wireframes superimposed into the drawings.Ravi Shah, the PM, and I met the participants for the first time as they entered the room, and we didn’t tell them our roles on the project. Dhvani coached us that sometimes participants don’t want to speak up too critically if they know the designer or product manager are in the room, so we kept the introductions minimal.At each step of the flow, the group was asked:The participants were exceptionally blunt and straightforward in their feedback, which was equal parts refreshing and hard to hear. We were getting first-time reactions to our flows, and I was surprised by how much they expressed emotional responses — feeling overwhelmed, or confused, or inadequate, or annoyed by the experiences in the slides.One great thing about having a group of designers in the room is that they are familiar with the process of product design and development — and they know how to read wireframes. They’re not distracted by the fidelity of mocks they’re looking at. Unlike in one-on-one tests with recruited users, they are not shy or afraid to speak up. You can trust that what they’re saying is legitimately to help improve the product (as they’re not collecting a check).We had someone taking notes live, in the slides themselves, during the session. Afterwards, the researchers went through the comments and put a summary of the feedback onto the slides themselves. In that way, the slide deck becomes a record of the session and a working document with advice for improving the product.I was impressed by how efficient the cog walk can be to get a ton of actionable feedback in a concentrated of time. It was a sanity check. Ravi remarked: “It was a really good way to get honest feedback on the experience without everyone commenting on the design elements themselves.”Cog walks are best for “new user” experiences; they’re not as effective if you’re evaluating other types of flows, say advanced tools that require a lot of context. Also, the success of the session will depend on the group and the expertise of your participants. I’d say that in that respect, we were very lucky. We received a wealth of feedback that could have taken a good full day of one-on-one sessions — in one short hour.Head of UX, Project Ara, Google ATAP. Formerly VP of Design at Inkling. Early joiner, late adopter.

“There are three responses to a piece of design — yes, no, and WOW! Wow is the one to aim for.” (Milton Glaser)We are Tubik Studio, a comprehensive team of designers specializing in web/mobile interfaces, UI/UX design, icons, logos and branding. Based in Dnipropetrovsk, Ukraine, we are open to the whole world and cooperate effectively with customers from different countries. We are always ready for discussion, support and collaboration working on any project.Nowadays we are young but full-fledged team of diverse designers and we are always happy to get involved into the projects all over the world. We see no limits as together we are a real single mechanism full of creativity and inspiration.We are happy to welcome all those who are interested in the field of UI/UX/App/Web design, logos, icons and branding to visit our pages on It should be said, we are very serious and thorough when it comes to work. Everybody here is always ready to help each other, criticize each other’s work in a positive and constructive way, share experience and ideas, so together we create a single mechanism for producing a great final product.However, at the same time we are always ready to have fun together, to support each other and spend great time out of the studio. Being friends gives us a great chance to feel work like home.So, nice to meet you all, guys! Hope to make new friends here, get inspired and make some of you inspired with our work.We are a comprehensive team of designers specializing in mobile/web interfaces, UI/UX, icons, logos and branding. We don’t look for solutions. We create them.

Welcome to the future! We have self driving cars, robots that clean the house, the Internet of Things and Smart watches. This is what our dreams were made of right? Well, not exactly, the products exist but the lifestyle is lacking to say the least.Let’s take a look at some of these clever devices. Dyson recently launched it’s Dyson 360 Eye, a smart robot vacuum cleaner thats ready to take on the apocalypse. This thing is built like a tank, it out-sucks the competition, [unavoidable pun] it can work its way around the house picking up dust and debris as it goes making sure to keep your place clean and tidy whilst you’re away. When it’s tired and the batteries are low it’ll make it’s way back to the docking station to recharge, excellent. Of course, it won’t replace a good clean but it should replace the need for a light cleaning here and there during the week.So whats the problem? Well, firstly I need to make sure it’s been emptied, either as soon as it is finished or just before it begins. A bit annoying but nothing substantial. What about controlling it remotely? Well, yes there is an app, granted the UX of the app is not great but it will do for switching the thing on and off, only I don’t want to worry about that, I just want it to know when I have left the house and clean up before I get back and surely it could empty itself too?What about the iRobot Scooba. Now we are talking, this thing can whiz around my hard floors and mop and polish all those pesky paw prints. Perfect! No need to waste my downtime cleaning up the house. Only, theres more problems… This one doesn’t even have an app, I have to manually start the thing by BENDING DOWN AND PRESSING A BUTTON, what is this the stone age? Even worse I have to empty and refill this bad boy every time I want it to clean. Worse still, this one doesn’t even dock itself when its running low on power. Shouldn’t it also know to wait until I have left the house and the Dyson has been round and done its thing first before starting? I’ll also spare you the endless videos of these “Smart” vacuums spreading dog crap around the house like they were possessed; is this how Skynet starts?I know what you’re thinking, I’m getting worked up over vacuum cleaners. Maybe you’re right, perhaps I should calm down over a cup of tea. Luckily I have my iKettle by Smarter, this WiFi enabled kettle can be activated from my phone whenever I need some boiling water.This clever little device can even work out when I have come home and boil the kettle ready for me to use when I get in. I’ll just switch it on no— Dammit, I forgot to fill it up with water after the last time I used it, it’s completely useless now, I have to go and fill it up and wait whilst the thing boils, oh the injustice!This is just the start, with the Internet of Things making their way into our homes, each with their unique software and hardware combinations, even with Apple’s Homekit integration there is still the fundamental principles of User Experience Design missing in the product designs.The problem is, there hasn’t been enough research into how people use or expect to use something. Task switching instead of task eliminating, forcing the user to learn a new way of using a product. We’ve only been filling up the kettle the same way for years, so now I have to make my tea, then refill the kettle and leave it sitting there until I need it again. Without understanding the user fully, the UX will always suffer, assuming you know how someone uses something instead of actually finding out is laziness.So how come huge companies like Dyson have forgotten their user? Well, my guess is that these large companies are still struggling to play catch up with the digital world and the importance of UX design. They have always been about the physical product, they took the vacuum cleaner and improved its design. But they did this by telling people what they were missing, designing by necessity mixed with ingenuity. With the digital age this method will not survive. People have become impatient with sloppy design, things should just work and work how they expect and this is what the large companies should be finding out long before production starts.A simple task analysis of the three examples as they are now shows that I would have to work out when my Dyson would finish cleaning, manually program the Scooba to start after that, make sure both were charged, clean and refilled where necessary before I leave for work in the morning. When I come home I have to empty Scooba and put it on charge, empty the Dyson then switch on the — Dammit! I forgot to fill up the kettle again!Don’t get me wrong, I love the idea of these gadgets and I can’t wait until they are fully integrated into my smart home and invisible to me. But as it stands all these little added tasks to my day are just frustrating and implausible. Until the user has been fully considered both in the physical and digital world then the future is not quite here just yet.User Experience Designer

Circola parecchio tra i miei amici addetti di cose dell’internet questa immagine, che è molto carina.Ragionandoci sopra, però, si dovrebbero puntualizzare alcune cosettine: per esempio, scrivere ‘design’ è scorretto e fuorviante, perché quel che si vede è A questo punto, una persona maligna e malmostosa (perché guardate me?) potrebbe semplificare molto, dicendo che discipline come l’usabilità prima e l’UX Design dopo, sono un interessante metodo con il quale un sacco di ottimi professionisti, manager, ingegneri, tecnici, umanisti, psicologi, anche qualche progettista che -ahiloro- non hanno mai preso una matita in mano, hanno scoperto un mestiere: poiché “il grafico” — ora si dice UI designer: plebe, webmonkey, vile meccanico, spingitore di pixel — se lasciato a se stesso esagera, allora formalizziamo e sistematizziamo il progetto e la sua gestione e -boom!- ricche consulenze. Ai dettagli ci penserà “il grafico”.Partire dalla funzione, formalizzare il progetto, sistematizzarlo, avere, in breve, un metodo di lavoro, è però ciò che qualsiasi buon progettista fa — o cerca di fare — da sempre: oppure credevate davvero che le idee venissero a colazione o mentre ci facciamo la barba?Quello che ogni cattivo progettista fa, altrettanto da sempre, è invece ignorare i requisiti del progetto per arrivare direttamente all’ornamentazione: al È un’appendice, un prefisso, un’aggiunta inutile e -dispiace- anche un po’ insolente verso chi questa disciplina la pratica seriamente, dal momento cheE questo è il motivo per cui un buon progettista, una volta studiato il mezzo (possono volerci anni, può volerci anche una vita), può progettare un giornale, la segnaletica del terminale di un aeroporto, un sito internet, un’app, una mensola, una cattedrale o un frullatore.E questo è anche il motivo per cui coloro che parlano dell’UX Design amano riportare nelle loro slide due categorie di esempi:- le Porte a Vetri di Donald Norman e Altri Esempi del Mondo Reale, come questo giardinetto;Perché l’UX Design, poiché non esiste in quanto disciplina a se stante, può solo essere definito dalla sua negazione (che è la negazione del design stesso), o da metafore prelevate più o meno a viva forza da altri ambiti progettuali.Qualunque cosa sia stata costruita dall’Uomo nell’ultimo milione d’anni, da quando un bastone è stato legato a una selce, è stata costruita con il preciso scopo di essere usata, manipolata dunque ‘esperita’ per assolvere a una funzione. Qualunque cosa HA una (o più) user-experience. Scoprirlo solo per il web mi pare sintomo di una certa ristrettezza di vedute.Accorgersene negli anni 2010, poi.I kill conversation as I walk into the room.

We don’t have to visually process all the stars to make them useful to us. Navigators and seafarers identified constellations for that. Constellations are convenient ways to understand the existing clusters and relationships. They provide a convenient way of filtering out the noise, and of seeing relationships and of orienting ourselves to address the design problems that matter.Just because every star has a name doesn’t mean designers or their clients have to understand it all. Designers need just enough research to justify their design priorities and develop an informed, even if incomplete, feature roadmap in time for new data points to emerge. Designers need to be fluent in the research enough to show, through their application of design and user experience principles, how the research translates into the design of a given product.To researchers, your work might look like an end deliverable document, but to designers embracing lean UX however, we are the consumers of research and we ought to view research as an open conversation. The conversation begins with facts that were previously unorganized. As designers become fluent in the research, our iterative design process and lean UX principles enable us to stay open to new facts that can continue to emerge, and with them higher fidelity constellations.I’m a UX Director building enterprise-scale, multi-screen UX / Former partner We’re the designers and front-end developers working at the LDS Church creating web sites and native mobile apps for 15+ million users.

With mobile internet usage eclipsing desktop-based web browsing, it’s more important than ever for websites to be built with an emphasis on speedy page loads and fluid reactions to user input.One important technology we use to achieve this is AJAX, short for “Asynchronous JavaScript  XML.” AJAX allows you to update parts of a single webpage without continually throwing out the DOM (the HTML architecture of the page) — eliminating the need for entire page loads and creating a faster response to user input. Building websites on a 100% AJAX framework is a technique that reveals new possibilities as to what is attainable in web development.We began building sites as 100% AJAX nearly ten years ago and have since learned a lot about how to effectively employ it so that it improves user experience. In this article we’ll explore a number of the specific advantages, and some limitations, of this technique.A key element of an effective UX is a speedy response to user input, but with a standard website, users are left waiting for interactions to take place as requests are placed over HTTP (or HTTPS) to the server, resulting in a complete page load for every change. This process occurs with every mouse click to request a new page, larger image, or more information; the DOM is completely thrown out and reloaded into your browser — this is often a wasteful process when loading pages on the same site, since they typically have similar content.One major advantage of AJAX is its steady stream of information, unobstructed by the loading and unloading of the DOM, resulting in better control over the experience and a visitor’s attention. With AJAX, web applications can send data to and from the server asynchronously without interfering with the display of the existing page.The key difference between a standard AJAX implementation and a 100% AJAX-built website is that in the latter the basic DOM is loaded on the initial visit to the site, usually on the home page; everything else that occurs is simply a manipulation of that primary load.A prominent example of the fluidity afforded by AJAX is Google Maps. As you zoom in, out, navigate through a city in bird’s eye view or in street view, information is being seamlessly and continually delivered for your immediate use. When transitioning between pages or updating content in a web app, AJAX allows for user input to be responded to in a contextually appropriate manner, such as form output updated in real time without reloading the page, contextual animations transitioning between pages or when loading a detail view.When designing pages with a large amount of content, we employ AJAX’s infinite scrolling pattern, which not only saves browser bandwidth by only showing the information immediately relevant to the UX, but also reduces user friction. On our own company’s Gaining control over how a website loads content creates a unique opportunity to design page transitions, loading animations, and visual cues that help the user understand the site’s hierarchy. This is also an opportunity for creativity with the company’s branding.A website with a 100% AJAX framework (because there is no full page load) does not provide feedback about its progress loading in the browser window, leading to potential confusion if a visitor is left waiting for an extended period of time with no response. This is where custom loading status indicators come into play, providing some indication that progress is being made during wait time.Small additions such as these are poignant in creating a memorable experience for your visitors and are made possible by the use of AJAX.Without individual page loads, a site is defined by having a single URL, causing problems on poorly built AJAX sites as users attempt to bookmark, or navigate using their browser’s forward and backward buttons. In addition, because Google’s search engine crawler historically did not read JavaScript, there have been concerns about how well AJAX-powered sites could be retrieved in Google’s organic search results.Both of these conditions are solved by gaining control over the URL path using the Each page of a 100% AJAX site and its alternate views are considered their own request; as you navigate through an AJAX site — even though it is technically a single page load — the URL in the browser updates to provide a unique address representing the current viewing state. In addition, we can listen for history change events in order to support the browser’s back button and return the previous viewing state. Each of these unique URLs are fully indexed by Google, meaning that this approach is fully compatible and helpful for SEO.As you can see, AJAX is integral to the advancement of modern web development and supplants a number of inferior technologies that provided a poor user experience. Without AJAX, all page content had to be fully reloaded for almost every single user interaction, even if only some of the information had changed. This hindered speed, placed additional load on the server and used excessive bandwidth.By building on a 100% AJAX framework, we are able to create sites that are customized to the needs of clients, provide accessible navigation that can be bookmarked by site visitors, and that function on a much higher level.Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

Tras asentar las bases del Ya lo adelantaba en el otro post. Práctica simple donde las haya pero que provoca grandes resistencias. Quizá por ser de los primeros pasos necesarios para este cambio. Lo dicho: He hablado con bastante gente que tiene dificultades ineludibles con este primer paso (kilómetros de distancia entre unos miembros y otros, y todas las variantes posibles del problema) y la vía de solución es siempre acercarse al menos virtualmente. No problemo siempre que el espíritu sea el mismo: Gracias a @jaumejornet por las chapicas!Tres cabezas aportan más que dos, cuatro mejor que tres, cinco mejor que cuatro… Especialmente si cada una de esas cabezas está amueblada de una forma diferente.Por eso, nosotros damos mucho peso a la El UX percibirá detalles de servicio al usuario que van más allá de funcionalidad técnica propiamente dicha, o podrá dar luz sobre cuál de esas funcionalidades podría ser el core del producto y cuál no. El comercial, como iniciador de la relación con el cliente o el posible cliente, aclarará dudas sobre el modelo de negocio, la idiosincrasia del cliente… además de enriquecerse al escuchar (o incluso participar) en las estimaciones.Lo mismo para los desarrolladores, los diseñadores, los maquetadores… Es incuestionable que Dependiendo de lo exhaustiva que haya sido la fase comercial a la hora de materializar el proyecto, la El objetivo es que todo el equipo (+ el cliente) obtenga la visión compartida de lo que se va a construir. Esta visión se hará tangible a través de Eso sí, ojito, la A veces somos capaces de creer que nos estamos entendiendo con alguien al conversar y resulta que es mentira. No es a mala fe, ¡desde luego!, y eso es lo peligroso, que de verdad creemos habernos entendido. Pero resulta complicado entenderse a la perfección cuando sólo la palabra es la vía para ese entendimiento. No te digo si encima quienes intentan entenderse viven en mundos distintos (con jergas distintas y cabezas amuebladas de forma diferente). Y es que si yo digo… “consultoría”, por ejemplo, y tú dices “consultoría” y él dice “consultoría”… cada uno entendemos una cosa diferente, aunque creamos estar en sintonía.La otra vía es El dibujo es mágico. Apuntaba en el post anterior que NADA supera la palabra. Ja!, pues mentía. Una de las mayores dificultades (y frustraciones) en todo este cambio es la ausencia de la visión completa y detallada (vía wireframes, por ejemplo) de todo el producto a construir.Al obviar una fase previa de consultoría larga, Ante este problema, gurús como En Biko somos más fans de otras alternativas como:Ya en plena iteración hay momentos en los que necesitamos estar dando lo mejor de nosotros, concentrados al máximo, exprimiendo neuronas. Cuando el equipo es multidisciplinar y los ritmos de trabajo de cada uno son variados, el Esto para respetar los tiempos individuales, pero ¿qué hay de los tiempos colectivos? A veces olvidamos que en sesiones grupales (inceptions, retros, demos, planificaciones…) el foco es igual de importante o más, puesto que la apatía, la desidia, el malhumor o simplemente el cansancio de cualquiera de los miembros puede poner en peligro el objetivo de la reunión (identificar riesgos, acciones de mejora continua, idear soluciones creativas…).Como remedio, mi consejo es Cuando el equipo se compone de diferentes perfiles, suele ser necesario la colaboración de todos ellos (o la mayoría de ellos) para poder dar por terminada una funcionalidad. Igual que todos aportaron en la creación de la pila, Para solventarlo, de momento estamos realizando una Con todo, creo que nos falta un un proceso más estandarizado. Cualquier idea es bienvenida.Los UX, sobre todo en modelos de construcción ágil, hemos pasado de organizar focus, test de usuarios, etc. a testar en modo guerrilla con amigos, conocidos… En parte porque creíamos que no compensaba el valor obtenido con este tipo de prácticas respecto al coste para el cliente y, en parte, porque Aun así, no sé si con razón o por herencia pasada, a veces echamos en falta algo más de testeo con usuario final en frases tempranas. ¿Cuál es la barrera? Curiosamente suele serlo el cliente: no lo ve necesario, no nos facilita el acceso a esos usuarios, no está dispuesto a pagar por algo que él considera ya tener clarísimo…Aun así hemos optado por Cuando una organización se atomiza en varios equipos se precisa que Lo que no encontrábamos hasta ahora era el medio más adecuado para conseguirlo. En En el primer post la palabra “feliz” era incluso parte del título, porque en realidad esto va de conseguir la felicidad. En todos los aspectos y a todos los niveles:Por eso esto va de conseguir la felicidad. De ser felices y hacer felices a otros. Aunque sea por el puro egoísmo de sentirte bien por ello ;)En fin, estas son nuestras Consultora de negocio y UX en Biko apasionada de la creatividad, el agilismo en UX (Lean UX), el sketching y las sesiones de gamestorming. Profesora en la Unav

Convenhamos: UX Designers são pessoas incríveis. Além de serem inteligentes, curiosos por natureza, educados e estudiosos, UXers são pessoas de bom coração, que precisam saber criar empatia com outras pessoas para que seu trabalho dê certo.Já trabalhei com centenas de pessoas durante esses anos todos de profissão, e posso dizer que dos poucos colegas de trabalho que se tornaram amigos pessoais, meus favoritos são os UX Designers.Explico:Profissionais de UX são treinados para querer o bem dos outros. Trabalham longas horas todos os dias para deixar a vida das outras pessoas mais fácil, mais simples, mais divertida e mais produtiva. Deixam de lado gostos pessoais para tomarem decisões baseadas no gosto e nas necessidades das pessoas que realmente usarão o produto — e ainda ficam bravos quando outros designers, desenvolvedores ou gerentes de projeto resolvem não levar em conta a opinião deles na hora de tomar decisões de design. Saber colocar as prioridades dos outros acima de suas próprias é um sinal de nobreza, cavalheirismo e espírito de equipe.Antes de tomar decisões precipitadas, o UX Designer é treinado a observar. Observar como as pessoas se comportam, ouvir o que elas pensam, e até a questionar quando sentem que algo está errado. Chegam a criar verdadeiros rituais (ou métodos) para descobrirem do que as pessoas realmente precisam.Normalmente UX Designers pensam muito antes de falar ou dar sua opinião sobre algo. Eles entendem da relatividade das coisas e sabem que o que é verdade absoluta hoje pode não passar de ilusão no dia seguinte — e essa capacidade de reaprender vinda da observação é algo que pouquíssimas pessoas possuem.Eles são tão curiosos e atenciosos na hora de observar, que aprendem até a ler expressões faciais ou intenções que não chegaram a ser verbalizadas — no melhor estilo “Se a pessoa resolver trabalhar com UX, assumiu um compromisso vitalício com a curiosidade. UX Designers são seres estudiosos, que gostam (e precisam) entender como as coisas funcionam nos mínimos detalhes. Do tipo que quando era criança desmontava relógios e depois os montava de novo, só para entender como aquela engenhoca toda funciona.Não se achar o dono da verdade é um exercício diário de humildade e auto-conhecimento. Ao invés de querer ter resposta para tudo na ponta da língua, o UX Designer é o cara que prefere abaixar a cabeça, assumir que não sabe a resposta e então mover montanhas para encontrá-la.Quando um UX Designer coloca uma interface à prova (seja em um teste de Pela própria natureza de sua profissão, UX Designers sabem que dependem dos outros membros do time para fazerem suas ideias tomarem forma. Já falamos por aqui que um design só é bom se o desenvolvedor for bom, e um bom UX Designer sabe bem disso. A mesma coisa vale para gerentes de projetos, planejadores, redatores, visual designers — e por aí vai. Por Esses são só alguns dos aspectos que fazem dos UX Designers pessoas que você pode querer ter por perto. Toda regra tem exceções, obviamente, mas a maioria dos UXers que conheço acabam carregando muitas dessas qualidades da vida profissional para a vida pessoal — afinal, nos dias de hoje essas duas coisas se misturam bastante e uma ajuda a dar forma à outra.TagsExperience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

(and our beta testers!)Many things are happening here at This is why you’ll notice a huge improvement in your daily productivity.This said, we are here to build the If you are in the beta — we’d love you to share this post, comment, react, etc. :) — thanks folks !!Best,The fastest way to access and share your photos, documents, calendar and more without ever switching apps. Everything you need is at your fingertips.On our way to make communication even better

Tem uma coisa que já venho percebendo há algum tempo e que promete acelerar ainda mais o Mercado de UX:Vou te mostrar o porquê…Nos últimos 3 meses, duas novas “Tá… mas e daí?Antes de tudo, isso mostra a importância que User Experience tem na estratégia das grandes empresas.Criar e divulgar uma marca com o termo UX Pare pra pensar… de alguma forma, essas marcas estão nos mostrando que isso traz algum valor na visão do usuário… Ou pelo menos estão apresentando o termo “UX” ao usuário final como um diferencial.Claro! Isso tem o lado bom e o lado ruim :(O lado ruim é que o termo fica de alguma forma “produtizado”, o que pode levar a uma banalização do termo na visão de todos.O lado bom é que a profissão de UX Designer será mais conhecida e as pessoas pedirão por experiências melhores.E aí… o que você acha disso?Professor da UX Academy e UX Links. Interessado em absolutamente tudo sobre User Experience, Arquitetura da Informação, Usabilidade, Acessibilidade e Agile UX.Artigos e novidades sobre UX Design, Usabilidade, UX Mobile e afins…

Receiving confusing design feedback can be a pain.Most designers have. And they know vague and (in some cases) indecipherable feedback can make any design job difficult as they try to translate comments into information that can inform their work.Mills suggests a shift in thinking to encourage better client feedback: Apply User Experience (UX) principles to the design presentation itself to help clients offer more useful feedback.“We should apply UX principles to all processes, not just websites. Good UXers design meetings, office layouts, all the things,” Mills said on May 21 at an event hosted by Atlantic Media Strategies and The presentation was one of Refresh DC’s monthly meetups to showcase the best new thinking among the members of the DC design and development community.Employing this strategy can make all the difference, Mills says.“Once I started treating feedback like ‘My mom doesn’t like the font’ the same way I would a high bounce rate or a low email sign-up number, I found that I had a process I could tweak and improve upon,” she says.Mills broke down the “UX Toolkit,” linking each step of a UX process with a component of presenting to a client. Read on to hear some of her tips for eliciting the most meaningful comments, which can be used to improve whatever it is you are creating.Ashley Balcerzak. Managed by the staff at Atlantic Media Strategies, we cover the latest trends at the intersection of media and technology

I like how you don’t try to label “Ux design” or try to state what it is or it’s not (like the articles you mentioned). The fact that “UX design” is an umbrella term makes having T-shaped skills, in my opinion, very important. Programmers that don’t want to think about Ui, or vice-versa, Visual designers who don’t care about how the product works, really need to take a step outside of their comfort zone. Otherwise makes collaboration harder, and the “Project experience” worse, than it should be.

(Это перевод базового курса UX, который включает 31 основной принцип UX-проектирования: Мы подошли к заключительному уроку в области wireframe-ов и к одной из самых важных функций любого интерактивного дизайна:На этом примере два типа кнопок (не нажимайте на них). Как правило, вам понадобятся кнопки только двух стилей, потому что большинство действий пользователей делятся на две категории:Некоторые действия, выполняемые пользователем, являются Кнопки, выполняющие основные действия, — основные кнопки — должны быть максимально заметны. Мы сделаем их таковыми при помощи принципов, изученных ранее в этом курсе.Некоторые действия, доступные пользователям, являются контр-продуктивными, как, например, “отменить”, “пропустить”, “сбросить”, “отклонить” и так далее. Они удаляют или прекращают создание чего-то нового. Эти действия второстепенны; нам не нужно, чтобы пользователи их совершали, но мы все равно предоставляем возможность их совершать, ради юзабилити.Поэтому кнопки, выполняющие второстепенные действия, — второстепенные кнопки — должны быть менее видимыми, чтобы по ним не кликали случайно, неосознанно.Иногда контр-продуктивные действия важны, как например в случае удаления аккаунта.У кнопок, отвечающих за такие действия, должен быть А еще полезно, чтобы цвет кнопки отображал важность совершаемого действия (красный, оранжевый, желтый и т.д.)В некоторых случаях, существует какое-то Кнопки “Добавить в корзину” на Amazon.com, “Pin it” на Pinterest, и старая кнопка “Like” с большим пальцем на Facebook: все они были созданы по этому принципу (так или иначе).Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Принципы, о которых мы поговорим в этом курсе, — это далеко не все, что нужно знать об UX. Это просто небольшой обзор, который поможет вам «прокачаться» в этой сфере как можно скорее. Пользуйтесь на здоровье!

(Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Проще всего рассматривать юзабилити как свод отдельных правил и “полезных советов”, которым нужно следовать просто потому, что кто-то так сказал. Но это не так. Юзабилити — это, скорее, что-то из области психологии, а ее не так-то просто охватить. Поэтому сегодня мы постараемся ответить на вопрос:Ничто не может “Если опросить пользователей, какой дизайн кажется им более “юзабильным”, их мнения будут скорее опираться на красоту, а не на Это означает, что не стоит доверять мнению пользователей в вопросе юзабилити.Если люди чаще совершают покупки в некрасивом дизайне, значит он более удобный.Если люди больше читают в некрасивом дизайне, значит он более удобный.Если людям проще регистрироваться в некрасивом дизайне, значит он более удобный.Иногда вам придется выбирать между красотой и удобством использования (т.е. юзабилити). Всегда выбирайте юзабилити!Когнитивная нагрузка — это объем “вычислительной мощности”, необходимый мозгу для совершения любого элементарного действия.Продолжать какое-то действие проще, чем начать другое.Повторно найти что-либо проще, чем искать “с нуля”.Читать простые слова проще, чем сложные.Согласиться проще, чем спорить.Каждая деталь вашего дизайна (и, кстати, вашей жизни тоже) должна уменьшать когнитивную нагрузку, стоящую на пути пользователя к его цели.Юзабилити присутствует в каждой детали, в каждом моменте, каждый раз.Красота не является чем-то чуждым UX.Нам хватает доли секунды, чтобы оценить внешний вид дизайна. Когда внешний вид нам нравится, это, обычно, означает быстрые скачивания, высокую степень доверия и более убедительный дизайн.Красота не делает вещи более удобными, но, благодаря ей, они Наша работа — тестировать, измерять и исследовать красоту. А не создавать ее.В последующих уроках мы изучим несколько психологических факторов, которые способны улучшить юзабилити, но никак не влияют на внешний вид дизайна.Как UX-дизайнер, вы должны использовать психологию — и подтверждать результаты работы тестами — даже если это немного ухудшит внешний вид.И кстати, не стоит вносить изменения, просто чтобы ухудшить внешний вид. Это тупо. Некрасивый дизайн не гарантирует высокого уровня юзабилити.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

(Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: UX-дизайнеры всегда стараются сделать каждую функцию лучше и приятнее для пользователя. Но в разных ситуациях это требует разных подходов. Сегодня мы сравним четыре различных подхода к понятию “юзабилити”.“Эвристика” — это Скажем, вам нужно, чтобы как можно больше людей завершили некий Например, покупку, регистрацию или прохождение через металлоискатель в аэропорту.То есть — вам нужно увеличить Ниже приведены четыре возможных подхода к этому (эвристика), каждый из которых имеет свои плюсы и минусы.Если вы UX-дизайнер, то это лишь вопрос времени, когда вам принесут описание процедуры регистрации на 7 листах и попросят упростить.Недостаток упрощения в том, что вы соберете меньше данных, или потратите на форму больше времени. И если электронный адрес не подтвердить, вся регистрация может сорваться из-за опечатки.Сформулировать вопрос более очевидно можно почти всегда. Просто представьте себе, что проектируете форму для кого-то не очень продвинутого.Минус в том, что такая очевидность, как правило, подразумевает Зачастую, пользователю приходится проходить какой-либо процесс по несколько раз. Ускорение такого процесса существенно повысит вашу конверсию.Недостаток проектирования таких “скоростных” форм в том, что процесс становится менее гибким. Начинает казаться, что внесение изменений сильно замедляет процесс, и гораздо легче пропустить ошибку, когда все кликаешь “Дальше”, “Дальше”, “Дальше” до самого конца формы.Многие дизайнеры уверены, что минимализм означает либо плоский дизайн, либо спрятанные опции в спрятанном меню. Суть минимализма — в том, чтобы сделать К примеру, Outlook — это почтовое приложение с множеством функций, типа адресной книги, полноценного календаря, напоминаний о встречах и различных способов сортировки писем. С другой стороны, Sparrow — это почтовое приложение, которое позволяет посылать, получать, пересылать, удалять и раскладывать по папками письма — и, в общем-то, все. И оно очень популярно.Недостаток минималистичного дизайна в том, что, обычно, он требует полного редизайна с нуля. И его недостаточно для продвинутых пользователей. Он хорош в типичных ситуациях, но в каких-то специфических случаях он может сделать только хуже.Как узнать какая эвристика подходит вам больше? Опросите людей, чтобы узнать Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

← (Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Есть одно слово, которое достаточно часто звучит в UX-дизайне, и это слово — “интуитивный”. То есть, понятный пользователю безо всяких объяснений и тренировок. Поэтому сегодня мы попробуем разобраться:Однако, реалити-шоу доказывают нам, что здравый смысл не у всех такой уж здравый, как нам кажется.Интуиция — это Группа людей из Северной Америки возможно смутится, когда в общественном туалете где-нибудь в Азии они увидят лишь дыру в полу. В то же время, группа из Азии возможно так же смутится, приседая над этими сумасшедшими водяными тронами в Северной Америке.Самое интересное: очень часто, как только мы узнаем правильный ответ, выясняется, что наша хваленая интуиция была неправа. Вы часто услышите фразу: “доверяй своему внутреннему голосу”. Это глупый совет, потому что Я, может быть, и не доктор, но это явно не лучший совет, если вы хотите сохранить здоровье.(Завтра мы разберемся, почему это Доверившись своему внутреннему голосу, вы Когда речь идет о тысячах или миллионах пользователей, “интуитивный” означает “понятный Утверждать, что ваш дизайн — Именно так я узнаю, что я Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

As UX designers within a large financial organisation, my team and I often get asked by other parts of the business how their teams might be able to incorporate UX practices into their process. Just the other day, one team within the company approached us and asked if we could help explain what personas were and how it might be of benefit to their particular system they were building.They were building a new application that catered to a wide user base, and had specified all the functionality they wanted based on business analysis. However, they had no idea how to go from their detailed excel spreadsheets to creating UI screens for the application.How might they be able to create a system that caters to wide range of users? They had heard of “Personas” and wanted to know more… and indeed that was the right direction. The key to designing UI screens is understanding who you are designing for. So, my colleague Charlotte Richards and I took 30 minutes and sat down with them to walk through what Personas are and the how and why to create them.References and other useful links:I love #UX, #UI, #IA, #analytics and design. Also a caramel waffle and coffee enthusiast. UX designer 

What’s hot in UX this weekFrom the moment you pick up these strange words in an conversation, you can clearly see the lack of attention and logic that went into creating these horrible tech words.But still there are people who are not early adopters with this annoying jargon.Try “leveraging” your mother-in-laws casserole next time. She’ll have absolutely no idea what the hell you’re talking about.There is an undeniable demand for explaining all this crap.And where there’s demand, there’s the next billion dollar sunset.via The Design Sprint methodology presented by Google is designed to help a sprint master lead their team through a 5 day sprint to create a new product or feature of a product.The first Enterprise User Experience conference was held in San Antonio, Texas, USA from May 13–15, 2015. Watch all the videos on the Enterprise UX Vimeo channel.Fair warning. You’re going to hate this one. I want to stop pushing the web forward for a while. I want a moratorium on new browser features for about a year or so. Recently I’ve been having serious doubts about the whole push the web forward thing.A visual brief on icon history through different graphical user interfaces in different operational systems.This mini essay will explore the over use of animation in UI design, show comparisons with early visual design and offer some suggestions for effective GUI motion design.“Early in my career, I would get uncomfortable and nervous whenever I had to present my work. Especially in person. With sweaty palms, I would unveil the master work that I had crafted in secret and step back quickly with a “Well, what do you think?” Some of you are nodding your heads right now.”We’re surrounded by advertising from the moment we wake up: it’s on our coffee cups, on TV, and driving in front of us on the way home. But we can always turn it off or tune it out. Augmented reality (AR) is the new way of layering digital experiences onto our analog world.via Brought to you by your friends at Share the love ♥Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Most of what I do isn’t actually making stuff. I’d say a large portion of my day is spent scratching my head, thinking, trying to match up users’ needs with viable interaction. I also attend a lot of meetings. And I talk to people. All the people; users, stakeholders, CEOs, developers, users, product owners, QA, doormen, literally…all the people. But, eventually, the people paying the bills want to see some deliverables. This post is a not-so-brief understatement of what UX designers generally do, and some jargon in which we tend to do it.For me, the core elements for the process are:When possible, getting feedback from actual users who actually use the current product (if there is one) or might potentially use the one we’re creating can be invaluable, hence When I take on a new project, it’s incredibly important to understand the In order to effectively create a meaningful and useful solution we first need to understand and try to design what the end-user needs. One of the most effective ways to divine the user’s needs are to generate detailed and meaningful Once we know what we’re building and for whom, we can create use-case I love With everything shaping up now, we can outline some While almost never a client deliverable, sketching helps me begin to take the ethereal vision of the project and give it corporeal shape. Until now, we’ve been primarily concerned with high-level “Whys?” and “What ifs?” Now we start to pave the road that leads to actual software.Now that we know what we want the user to do and when we can sketch some What makes a wireframe interactive? Simple: by wiring up a wireframe (or even bits of paper) so I can advance down a path in a way emulating how the actual software might — it’s now interactive. I can be as simple as shuffling pieces of paper, adding hotspots to images in Building the prototype forces you through the actual steps of building something that works (at least to some degree) as the intended final product. Building a prototype will shed light on problems and nuances in the product that were impossible to foresee otherwise. It can also validate decisions made, or showcase in painful glory any mistakes. Fortunately, it’s still not too late and early enough in the game that you can regroup and iterate over any lessons learned in the prototype phase.Once the vision is decided upon, creating a Once you’ve iterated through the process, wireframes and styles you should have enough information that engineers can begin building the foundations and supporting controls and interfaces. If neeeded, you can get to the pixel-pushing — the creation of Hi-Fi Comps are also the most expensive part of the process and should be minimized (or eliminated) if at all possible. In a world where your software or website can be viewed on any one of thousands of devices and screens, it’s literally impossible to cover every single possibility. This is why style tiles and guides are so important. By wireframing in the browser using responsive frameworks and relying on consistent styling, you’ve positioned yourself to be able to handle any device that comes your way without having to mock up thousands of views for every single page.So — this is my process in a nutshell. I don’t always completely execute every step for every product. That’s not to say that I skip any of these steps — but sometimes they can be internalized rather than run through in full, real-world glory. I think each product requires a slightly different approach. Agile development environments and tight schedules may also limit how much time we can spend on each process — so internalizing some so we can spend more time on other, more critical steps can be vital — because in the end, shipping the product is the most important feature we will ever implement.Did I miss something you love? Do you violently disagree? Please let me know by responding!Experience Designer, Musician, Husband, Daddy, Mormon, Kung Fu Fighter, Bald  Happy.

Few months ago, I was invited to a briefing of an Android app competition organised by a certain private institute based in Colombo. Between few boring presentations, they delightedly demoed their internally acclaimed ‘Best Student Projects’ and I was honestly shocked by the inadequate attractiveness and stale professionalism they displayed.In UI/UX terms — more in UI though — Sri Lankan apps suck. I have come across several apps done by Sri Lankan devs. But this ugly void of design creativity has apparently stationed itself among majority (95%?) of them. Professional and experimental alike, UI standards have been tremendously disregarded during the last few years. It’s mostly mismatching gradients of colours, a button which hasn’t seen a smear of CSS or A super cool concept doesn’t mean you’re sellable. An innovative math game developed by one of my colleagues was recently given a negative rating by an international app review site because it fell short in UI and UX. It’s not always isolated cases like these. I have stumbled upon scenarios where even companies have no clue of what they are trying to build; design wise. They would try to squeeze functionalities in without even having a 5 minutes design discussion and even without mockups to carry out development process. It’s really hard to see such products being successful in open market.This could be one of four things; User interface and user experience are polyjuice potions that determine the saleability and façade of an app. Every minuscule detail in everything we see or use has a reason to be there and a standard. Integrate that with your apps too because you have to stand out in a world run on wheels of competition.Wraith.

Last month, “Why is UX so difficult to enter as a profession?” (I was at a meetup recently, talking about hiring for and working in UX. The people engaged in the conversation were a mix of those having a small amount of professional experience and some who were still in school, for User Experience (or related fields). Having been one of two people in the conversation who had been a hiring manager, I had several questions thrown at me. When asked what I looked for as a hiring manager, I noted that I had hired UX Architects, mostly. For UX Architects, I preferred people who could demonstrate 6+ years of experience… nearing 10 in most cases… and that I tried to find professionals that had worked in three or more of several disciplines including: Information Architecture, Interaction Design, Usability Engineering, Content Strategy, Front End Development, User-based Research, Visual Design and Marketing. The chorus of groans that greeted my response were clearly audible even in the mix of conversations in the room. I seemed to get a lot of “Yea, that’s the problem with getting into UX” responses.Structuring websites, applications, and any other interaction that happens between humans and inanimate objects to generate the best possible experience for the human side of the equation is a worthy profession, full of value. I believe in what that means and what needs to happen in order to go into it. In caution of the abuse of associated terms, I grow concerned at the fashionable use of “UX” as a substitute for a variety of other, more appropriate terms. Looking on the web, I feel like I’ve seen every role that is related to User Experience suddenly have the acronym UX thrown in front of it; a quick search on job boards supports this. It’s no wonder, then, that the validity and effort involved in doing core UX work, strategy and architecture, becomes under-appreciated while we overwhelm people who probably should be starting with contributory Visual Design, Content Strategy, or other related field work.Fifteen years ago, there were individuals who were already entrenched deeply in their understanding of how experiences (specifically, websites) were generated for the end-user as a result of the digital stages they created. They arrived at that understanding as a result of having contributed in the variety of roles that create and launch a system, because there were no signposts available at the time. They spoke to people and blazed a trail. I learned about the aspects of User Experience by working in a lot of different specialized tangents through the course of my career. It wasn’t until a few years ago that I was confident saying I had an understanding of user-centered design, usability engineering, visual design, interaction design, information architecture, and more… the multiple facets that make up defining User Experience. So many things contribute to UX that it’s near impossible to walk into a first-year role as a UX “anything.”I say “near-impossible” based on knowing that there are a lot of really smart, competent people closely tied with our higher learning institutions that have introduced UX and higher-thinking Design as coursework and degrees in universities and schools. I think that’s just amazing. I might have actually had a plan if those kind of programs existed when I was in school! Inversely, walking out of a school with a great degree in a great program after studying under great teachers doesn’t mean you should try to move directly into a UX-specific role. I suggest more graduates should generate some professional experience doing the components of UX first. Work as an Interaction Designer or an Information Architect… moderate Usability Studies. Do things to round out your experience so you can confidently architect an experience with huge return for your users and your company.Within our discipline, we can do a better job of encouraging this line of thinking. We need to take time from our explorations and building to “make our own shoes.” It’s possibly time we do a better job of encouraging people who want to “get into UX” to focus on narrower slices of the field first, and then move into more senior roles, once the right level of experience is achieved within component disciplines. Today, UX has been embraced by businesses as a core, if not lofty goal. We’ve been granted validity and now have the room for actualization. The next chapter in UX could be accepting how we fit into the business world, which is going to require us to agree to path and structure that we’ve so rigorously debated. As we move forward, as programs are being defined, schools are being founded, and apprenticeships and mentorships abound, having some collective, unified thought about how we evolve ourselves as a profession will keep us from becoming the next relic of a time past whose value is no longer perceived at the same level it once was.Like so many others in my profession, I enjoy the attention that we’re getting as a discipline. Not because it somehow catapults us into fame, but because it puts the emphasis back on the people who interact with the products that businesses create. This is more than just the right thing for businesses to maximize their profit; it represents a shift in thinking on the human condition; the idea that we can make the world a better place by being conscious of how products impact the overall psychological and emotional state has tremendous long-term social impact as we view human beings as having that capacity. That’s heavy, and that’s a lot of responsibility.ia/ux.geek+dad | defining, writing, designing, creating | organizing chaos 

UX — это относительно новая сфера в мире бизнеса, и, поскольку люди воспринимают все новое сквозь призму известных понятий, следующий вопрос будет таким:И это я еще очень мягко сформулировал, потому что обычно вопрос звучит так: “Разве UX — это не просто совместная работа маркетологов и разработчиков?” Как будто маркетологи и разработчики никогда раньше вместе не работали, или UX не стоит обсуждения как самостоятельная сфера. Это показывает, какими бизнес видит дизайнеров и разработчиков. Но ведь они тоже люди!Ну… большинство из них. Время от времени я вижу одетых в хороший костюм ребят, называющих себя программистами. Я почти уверен, что они — пришельцы, которые еще просто не освоились в нашем мире.Но что-то я отвлекся…Итак, наш вопрос можно сравнить с вопросом: “Разве дизайн дома — это не просто совместная работа маляров и водопроводчиков?”Нет. Результат совместной работы двух отделов — это не особый тип работы. Совместная работа отделов — UX имеет отношение и к маркетингу, и к разработке, но сам по себе не является ни тем, ни другим. Некоторые из новейших маркетинговых технологий (к примеру, growth hacking — взлом роста спроса/ хакинг роста) впервые появились в сфере UX-дизайна и исследований. UX-дизайнеры, как и маркетологи, используют аналитику, но мы больше думаем о пользователях, которые уже купили наш продукт, а маркетологи заботятся о том, как убедить людей его купить. “Трафик” против “пользователей”.UX — это самостоятельная дисциплина.UX-еры занимаются тем, чего не делают маркетологи: например, информационная архитектура и понятные людям тексты.UX-еры занимаются тем, чего не делают разработчики: например, работа со стратегией продукта и осознанное общение с людьми за пределами компании.Среднестатистический человек зачастую и не задумывается, что все вещи кем-то Помните, что UX — новая сфера. И не понимать, что это такое, — не означает быть глупым.Маркетологи вот уже более ста лет начинают с В UX мы делаем все наоборот.Сначала мы исследуем проблему клиента и создаем для нее решение. Для маркетолога старой школы, UX — это все равно, что тащить дерьмо в церковь.Разработчики до недавних времен вообще не обсуждали пользователей. В 1960-х программист работал на компьютере размером с комнату и пользовался перфокартами, как какое-нибудь животное!А теперь разработчики обсуждают производительность приложения как проблему пользователя!Так что нет ничего странного в том, что кто-то пытается понять UX как комбинацию “маркетинг + разработка”, но ничего правильного в этом тоже нет.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. От профессионалов новичкам

Когда берешься за самые первые проекты, часто хочется, чтобы кто-то просто взял и объяснил — как же все это работает? Так что давайте ответим на вопрос:UX — это система, ведь и психология — это система. Если вы измените элемент А в одном месте, то, возможно, сами того не подозревая, измените и элемент Б в другом. В самом начале — а зачастую и дальше — может быть сложно уловить все эти связи и влияния.Нет никаких правил! UX — это божественная творческая сила, понять которую под силу только UX-дизайнерам.(Размечтались.)Первое, что нужно сделать в UX, — это И если вы относитесь к типу людей, которым неприятна неопределенность, в UX вам придется сложновато.Иконка безопасности, которая создает на одном сайте ощущение надежности, на другом сайте разрушает всю картину, потому что расположена не в том месте.Вы можете в точности воспроизвести на своем сайте компоновку Pinterest, и она может полностью провалиться из-за того, что у вас другой контент.Или, к примеру, цвет ссылок, который благодаря Google Означает ли это, что UX совершенно непредсказуем? Что он совершенно случаен?НЕТ.Но UX не построен на “правилах”.Он построен на Добавив иконку безопасности на сайт, вы, может быть, и повысили надежность страницы, но, вероятно, “сдвинули” естественную Вот они и не нажмут на нее.Pinterest создан для работы с разрозненным контентом — соседние изображения никак не связаны между собой — но если вы будете располагать ваши продукты в таком же “шахматном порядке”, то заметите, что люди меньше покупают, так как не могут найти нужный продукт.Для упорядоченного контента нужна упорядоченная компоновка.Google однажды С другой стороны, красные ссылки имеют репутацию победителей A/B тестов. Но до определенного момента. Если фон красный, розовый или зеленый, то красный — самый худший цвет для ссылок.А еще, вот вам профессиональный совет: зеленый фон с красными ссылками может вызвать у пользователей эпилептические припадки и/или смертельные случаи.Начните думать о дизайне, как о системе, а не о наборе отдельных элементов. Вскоре вы научитесь предсказывать, как люди смотрят на ваш дизайн, как используют его и как изменения в дизайне могут повлиять на ваши результаты.Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. От профессионалов новичкам

Maya Prohovnik is the Head of Community Development at betaworks, where she works on everything from recruiting to running Maya works to keep the growing network of betaworks companies well connected. But, her knack for building communities doesn’t end when she steps out of the betaworks offices.Maya: [Laughs]. Good question. I had always loved tech but never dreamed I could do it for a living. I totally lucked into my job at Aviary — it was just good timing. When I moved to NYC in 2008 I went to a bunch of tech meetups and met (among other people) I couldn’t believe my luck. I started out in a customer support role and grew from there. I actually think everyone should have a shitty corporate job before going into startups; I have never taken my career in tech for granted, because that perspective lets me see how good we all have it. I’m still so thankful just to get to work with like-minded people every day. That makes such a big difference.M: It’s definitely one of those jobs where everyday looks different depending on what’s happening when I walk in the door. But community is super important to betaworks; getting our beta projects in front of smart people and getting feedback quickly is a really important part of our process. Having a strong network of hackers and creatives is imperative for us, too — it lets us be pretty opportunistic about building new teams and products when the time is right. So a lot of my time is just spent talking to smart people in NYC, which I love doing. Betaworks is a little mysterious, and can be sort of confusing to some people because our business model is so unique, but the cool thing about that is the people who are attracted to us are all incredibly interesting. I have so many great conversations and learn so much every day.But to answer your question, in terms of “real” work that I have to do: I run our openbeta newsletter, I oversee our website and social media, I work with the studio companies on a bunch of special projects, and right now I’m overseeing our summer internship program. Last week I got to go to Austin with some guys from the Dots team to go to some events down there. I have a really awesome job.M: Sure! I actually can’t remember exactly how we decided to start it, but my friend M: I think it just comes down to hard work. I can’t even tell you how many hours a month we spend preparing for each event to make sure people have a good time and leave feeling like they’ve learned something important. We stress a lot. We talk every single day and half the time we are panicking. And I think most people who run meetups are just like, ok cool, we got a venue, we got a speaker, the rest will come together. They don’t take responsibility for the experience of the individual members — and we really stress over making sure every single person has a good time. Personally, I hate most meetups because it’s really difficult to go up to strangers and just turn on the networking. I think it has made a huge difference that we put so much effort into listening to people and connecting them to each other. I wish more meetups would do that for me.M: Oh man, so much. I learned that people come for the speaker, but where they actually get the most value is from networking (which everyone pretty much hates doing, so you kind of have to facilitate that to an obnoxious extent). I learned that being over-prepared is worth it even if you look insane. I learned that every single person you come across has something to teach you. So many people have shown up and — even though I thought we would have nothing in common — we ended up having these really charged and fascinating conversations. I learned that a lot of venues will provide food and beer for you. We learned that one the hard way when we spent hundreds of dollars on that stuff ourselves for our first meetup. Oh, and having a partner you can work with and trust is crucial. I don’t think I could have done this successfully with anyone but Mike. We just complement and push each other in all the right ways, and we never let each other give up or settle for a mediocre event.M: This is in the super early stages, so a lot still may change, but I can tell you the high level plan at least. We’re about to expand to a second floor in our building, so communication across all the different companies and teams is about to become much more of a challenge. Summer, Lauren, and I came up with this idea for an internal app based on the YXYY app Summer used at their unconference this year. It’s going to include a bunch of functionality for both fun and productivity. I guess my role is product management, but I’m really just supporting some really smart designers and devs in building it, however I can. I’m really excited to get to work with a bunch of people from different companies — any time we can get brains together from different parts of the studio, really awesome things happen.M: [Laughs]. Oh god please don’t link to Standing Clock is a really different story. I started using a standing desk at some point at Aviary, and got super into it and started lecturing everyone at work about the health benefits of standing. I also started complaining to my boyfriend that no one had built an app for tracking how much I was standing at work, because I was super tired from standing all day and had no internet stats to show for it. Neither of us had any idea what we were doing, but we cobbled together a clock and a basic chart to show your progress, and got our friend M: I just love the fact that I can have some stupid or funny idea and make it happen. It’s why I love the internet in general — everything you can possibly think of can exist. One time my sister was having a bad day and I made a little website called Orange You Glad (I think the domain lapsed and it’s down at this point), that you could go to and it would tell you a story about someone else who was having a worse day and say “Orange you glad that’s not you?” It really cheered her up. And I think just talking about the idea would have worked to such a lesser extent; it was cool that I could spend a couple hours on that and bring it to her and make her smile. I also really love tracking things.I’ve made a ton of single-serve tumblrs (just made a new M: Totally. This is one of the biggest pieces of advice I give non-technical people who are building their resumes: having a hobby and talents outside of your job are so important. Especially at a place like betaworks, where there are so many crazy projects going on all the time, we never know what skills are going to end up being important so multi-talented people are great to have around. Even if your side project is singing in a band, or writing a novel, or being on a volleyball team or whatever, being a well-rounded and passionate person is so important. That kind of commitment really bleeds into work life too; if someone has kept up a hobby for a long time or followed through with an interesting side project, that’s a good indication that they are a hard working person who can learn quickly and execute well.M: Oh man, there are so many. I loved Helping to build and invest at betaworks. Startup/Tech Enthusiast, Williams ‘16, Entrepreneur, Founder of a Not-For-Profit, and Eternal Maker/Builder.Highlighting Awesome Side Projects and the People Behind Them

I’ve moved from a freelance UI designer to a user experience consultant, and now the owner of an amazing user experience development agency called As an agency now there is this constant reminder of one thing…It could be that the creative industry is moving fast. Oh yeah! This is true. New companies, products and services are created everyday. New apps hit the web or app stores nearly every minute. New design software, new tools, new trends. We love keeping up. Trying out other great experiences, checking out the latest and greatest of what this excitig space has to offer. Pushing ourselves to keep our clients, products and experiences relevant, useful and effective. But this is not all that we are learning.It could be keeping up with the technology. Yup! This is is true as well. Every day there is a new compiling language, a new node.js, backbone.js, framework, or cleaner way to make beautiful responsive experience, while considering touch, but not forgeting the classic click. There are constant new API sources, and ways to consider speed on the server and speed in the browser. Our team is content by building only the best, and it shows. But this is not all that we are learning.A good part of my role these days is meeting with people and hearing their ideas. Coffee for an hour, and be ready to start writing a proposal. In this time I must learn not only the problem trying to be solved, a bit of the undustry its in, the possible high level solution that we can help build, but more importantly, if it is a good fit or not. And quite possibly just as important is are they ready to dedicat the time and resource (cash) to see it though. I love this part of my job. I love hearing new ideas, and even more helping people create products that solve real problems and create successfull change. But this is only the start of our learning in projects.Our team is passionate about building the right thing. This means that the building of every project is a series of constant learnings. After that first coffee with ask our client to invest in to time with us to learn together, and plan out the goals, roadmap, and outcomes to shoot for with their product.Every design and development sprint followed by an internal validation with our team and with the our partners (clients) and hopefully an external test with real users. Yeah, this is LEAN UX. We preach it and believe in it. We don’t want to waste anything; designs, code, cash, and most importantly time. But more than anything, we love building GREAT products. So we learn with our clients, but that’s not the only time we are learning.I learned that I have to learn fast, learning never stops and I LOVE IT.I’m learning how to build a great team. I’m learning how to build a brand. I’m learning how to say no, and then how to not say no too much. I’m learning how to hear my team, and support them to learn what they need to flourish as individuals and to build the best possible products. I’m learning how to value our work, while not being too expensive. I’m learning how to foster creativity, but still get work done. I’m learning how to be a business partner, and trust in our roles. I’m learning how to find the right clients. Clients that are as excited as we are about building great products and great companies. I’m learning that being an entrpreneur is my dream, and I love working with team that is as eager as I am to learn.Building a great company, product or agency is a constant stream of learning. This means learning new design techniques. This means staying on top of technoology. It means validating every design and development sprint with our clients and with real users. It means learning how to grow the right team and culture in your company.While our industry moves fast, my desire to build a great company moves just a bit faster. Or at least I feel like it does. I think that this is what drives me, and should drive others to build their great companies. Our team is still young. Only 4 years old, and filled with young inovative minds. I think I’ve learned one very important part of growing a hungry and talented UX agency; surround yourself with a team and with clients that are as passionate about learning as you are, and you’ll build great products and great companies that solve real problems and create success.Founder @ 

AppSociallyのLean UXの重要な要素のひとつにユーザーリサーチがあります。ユーザーのフィールドバックを受けて製品を成長させ、ユーザーからブレないUX をつくります。しかし、そのユーザーリサーチが実施されないままに製品がリリースされてしまうことは、よくあるとことでしょう。そこには、ありがちな”言い訳”が存在しています。今回は、そんな定番のデザインに頼ってはいけないということではありません。問題なのは、定番のデザインを採用すること自体が、ビジネスのゴールに直結していると考えてしまうことです。ここに面白い事例があります。とあるディベロッパーがTwitterのリンクのデザインについてA/Bテストを実施しました。“I’m now on Twitter.” と“Follow me on Twitter.” と“Click here to follow me on Twitter.”の３つのフレーズです。クリックしてほしい場所に対して、”Click here”と書いてはいけないということは、誰もが知っているデザインの基本原則でしょう。しかし、A/Bテストの結果はそれに反するものでした。”Click here”を含むフレーズが一番フォワロー数が増えたのです。もしフォロワー数を増やすことがビジネスのゴールだったならば、悪いデザインの基本原則が正しいことになります。この事例から学ぶべきことは、きちんと自分たちのビジネスゴールを認識し、例えそれが定番のデザインだったとしても、そのデザインが顧客に与える変化をテストすべきということです。Facebook(Google/Apple)がデザイン変えた、これにしてみよう、きっとうまくいくはずだから。こんなフレーズをいままでに何回聞いたかわかりません。確かにGoogle/Facebook/Appleはとても成功している企業です。しかしあなたは彼らと同じ課題を解決したいわけではないですし、顧客も違います。それに、彼らがそのデザインをテストしたのか、そのデザイン自体を気にかけているかすら分からないのです。似たような機能やユーザー層が近かったとしても、あなたは全く異なった製品を開発しているのです。彼らのデザインがビジネスの成功に直結していない場合もあります。例えばGoogleのI’m feeling happyボタンはpage viewを減少させてしまいますが、会社もユーザーもその機能が”好き”だから存在しています。もしその機能があなたの製品にとって重要ならば、それがユーザーにどう影響するのかをテストするべきでしょう。製品の開発には締め切りもあり、予算も限られています。しかしユーザーテストを実施しないトラディショナルな開発を行っていると、ミスをするまでに時間がかかってしまい、開発サイクルも伸び、時間もコストもかかってしまいます。一方で、ユーザーのフィードバックを中心に進めるアジャイルな開発を行っていれば、修正箇所が早く見つかり、開発のサイクルは短くなって、結果的に時間もコストも小さくできます。ユーザーリサーチをしないことは、やることを先延ばしにしているだけなのです。この言葉は、アジャイル開発を行っているところでよく耳にします。さらに、時間がなくなると機能を削り出す場合もあるでしょう。それが重要な機能かもしれないにもかかわらず、です。スタートアップにとっては早く製品をリリースしないと、コスト面からいっても継続していけないことは理解しています。しかし、たくさんのアプリケーションが乱立している中で、ユーザーを理解していない製品はすぐに他の製品に乗り換えられてしまうでしょう。数時間のインタビューだけで、その後に何時間もかかる修正が無くせるのです。コンセプトを表現するためだけのプロトタイプであったとしても、ユーザーリサーチをする必要があります。想定しているユーザーが間違っていないか確認するためです。投資家があなたのターゲットに精通していなくてもユーザーになりうる人と話すことは、製品にとって悪くないでしょう。いかがだったでしたか。頭では”必要”と分かっていても、ユーザーリサーチをしないまま、開発が進んでしまったという経験は多いのではないでしょうか。そうならないように陥りがちな考えを知り、未然に防いで、ユーザーからブレない製品をつくっていきたいですね。サンフランシスコと東京でエンジニアをしています

Imagine walking into a company and being given a project with a large budget to do everything in order to deliver the perfect product: When students go to university, I have found that they are taught idealogical methodology within their discipline. However when entering the real-world, graduates become astutely aware of the calibre of real-world obstacles such as budget, time constraints, and office politics. Personally I had a similar experience with Experience design. I am of course speaking very generally, but when designers are first learning how to do proper UX, many are taught UX principles based on the assumption that any given company is willing to invest the time and budget to properly implement our practices. While this is a great way to learn proper UX methodology, it lacks the real-world twist. There is a lot of information out there on UX best practices and methodologies, but the harsh truth is that many organizations are not familiar with the benefits of proper UX which consequently often makes them reluctant to invest in our efforts.My designer friends: I’ve found just the resource for such troubling situations. I recently finished reading Undercover User Experience Design, a practical guide on how to both promote and execute UX design within organizations that are not familiar with all the benefits of UX. It outlines how to mind-ninjaOne specific part from this book that I would like to share today is on topic of UX and persuasion. I believe that doing good UX as well as being able to persuade an organization of its benefits go hand in hand. At times, UX designers will be asked to convince stakeholders of the benefits of UX. The art of persuasion is critical to UX success. Psychologist Robert Cialdini describes 6 “weapons of influence” that drive persuasion and trust:Ok great. So how can we apply these principles to UX persuasion? Persuading businesses that investing in User Experience is beneficial to them is a multi-dimensional process: take a look…So as you can see, the are of persuasion can also be employed when going undercover in an organization to promote User Experience practices. I strongly recommend reading the book by Cennydd Bowles and James Box if you face any obstacles against UX within your organization.I love #UX, #UI, #IA, #analytics and design. Also a caramel waffle and coffee enthusiast. UX designer 

I have interviewed at A LOT of companies (especially the big tech companies). I hope this helps for those who get down on themselves for not making it to the next round.I used to be one of those people and still am a person that gets really down on myself for not making it through interviews. It happens and its life.The sad reality is that in UX Design, there is some tough competition. Companies aren’t always clear as to what they actually want when they hire a designer. There are many types of design (believe it or not). Understanding each one of them can help but like I said before…titles ARE JUST TITLES. I’m going to say this lightly but learn ALL OF THEM. Some companies will be actually looking for a particular type of designer. For example, visual designers are pixel masters. They can take any idea and turn it into a beautiful masterpiece. Ok you got the phone screen but don’t freak out just yet. You can do this! These can be as short as 30 min or up to 2 hours (yea I have had one that long). The best way to prepare is to WRITE EVERYTHING DOWN. Nobody knows that you have notes. In fact it doesn’t matter. Every time I got rejected from a job was because I didn’t have my thoughts in order. I took that denial and incorporated it into a plan to succeed in the next one. You don’t have to read from it but it will absolutely help you get your ideas in order. You will get asked “Tell me about your story” or “Tell me about your design process” and you will be prepared! If you get rejected, it could also be that your experiences didn’t match their requirements. Again, don’t get down on yourself and pump yourself up for the next one!Nice! You got to the next round. This can either be in the form of a design challenge or in person. DESIGN CHALLENGES ARE DIFFICULT. They are meant to “challenge” the way you think and incorporate a company’s vision into a visual solution. I will have to be honest; I have only passed ONE of these challenges. They are daunting and take some time. If you get rejected DO NOT THINK FOR A SECOND ON GIVING UP OR THAT YOU ARE A BAD DESIGNER. Instead, try to get feedback from the recruiter (usually if you get this far they will tell you why). If the company allows it (you didn’t sign an NDA) then put your design on your portfolio…after all you put the work in! Once you pass this challenge next is (usually) the final round.Ok, give yourself a pat on the back because not many people make it to this round. This round will either be as easy as meeting the team at the office OR presenting your entire portfolio (or a majority of it) to a group of designers. This can be a daunting especially if you are bad at public speaking. However, do not fear! Remember when I told you to write down your story for the phone interview? That was not only for the first round but also the last. Don’t come in the interview nervous because there is no need to be! Designers are friendly and nobody is going to bite off your head. They want you in the office because they like you. These are things that I think about. Try to be funny and connect with the people you are interviewing with. Make the presentation fun and explain your success but also your pitfalls. The best presentations are when everyone is engaged in what you are saying. If you pass and get an offer then CONGRATULATIONS!! You are now a bonefide bay area UX Designer!!! If you fail in this round again don’t fret. YOU MADE IT TO THE FINAL ROUND! This isn’t easy and it means you will definitely get it next time. I have made it to the in person and didn’t pass. It happens and you try again.My parents told me that everything happens for a reason. As much as this is hard to believe it’s true. Whenever I get down about not making to the next round, a more exciting opportunity opens up! You just have to be confident and patient!I am an ex Marine Officer Candidate. I thought I had my life figured out and knew what I wanted to do. I was very wrong. I put myself through probably the worst/toughest experiences in my life. Officer Candidates School is no joke. I was pushed, teased, tortured- physically  mentally, forced to brace freezing temperatures with no gear, swim in dangerously cold water etc. I had no freedom. It was gone. There was no one there to help me. I came to the realization that I had to continue on no matter what. I was sick with Mono and had 0 energy. As soon as I medically dropped out (after 6 weeks), I knew that I wouldn’t give up on the next thing I pursued to be my career path. I always tell myself, I am ok. I’m not in the military anymore and things aren’t as bad as they seem. Every time, I am on the verge of giving up, I push on like I did to get through USMC OCS (Officer Candidates School). Some of you may not have this motivation to have this kind of perseverance. I understand that. If this isn’t making you happy then don’t do it. However, if you still have that glimpse of seeing yourself as a designer at your dream company, don’t give it up and keep pressing on. Things always get better, you just have to be there to find out.—  I hope this helps aspiring UX Designers out there! I really want to help aspiring designers to pursue their dream careers. I am still learning and that is the best part of design!Shoot me an email! I would love to chat! Follow me on Twitter! Connect with me on Linkedin! Designer 

Le terme “gamification” est déjà très évocateur, car il s’agit d’intégrer des mécanismes ludiques dans un contexte où le jeu est initialement absent. L’objectif principal est d’engager le public, lui donner envie d’exécuter une tâche désagréable ou répétitive. Imaginez que la gestion de vos papiers administratifs ou vos courses au supermarché devienne un réel jeu, dans lequel vous gagnez des points et des récompenses. Vous challengez vos amis (qui jouent aussi, bien sûr) et vous atteignez de meilleurs scores qu’eux… nous n’en sommes pas bien loin...Aux États-Unis, Évidemment, beaucoup de professeurs ont déjà fait l’expérience de rendre leur enseignement aussi agréable et ludique que possible. Mais la tendance actuelle est à la généralisation de ce principe dans de nombreux domaines.En plus d’être drôle pour l’utilisateur, la gamification apporte davantage pour le concepteur… et ce concepteur, demain, ce sera peut-être vous !Vous dites…? Le you-ex quoi ?? Ne vous laissez pas impressionner par ce terme aux allures élitistes. Pour démystifier un peu, le UX design (User eXperience) n’est autre que la conception de l’expérience utilisateur sur un site ou une application web. Le UX designer consacre son énergie et ses neurones à imaginer le parcours de l’utilisateur sous forme d’un scenario interactif. Il doit se mettre dans la peau de l’utilisateur afin d’anticiper ses actions et réactions.Au-delà d’un simple processus logique, l’idée est de procurer à l’utilisateur une émotion positive qui rendra son expérience plaisante, voire franchement inoubliable.Disons que le UX design, ce sont les coulisses, le Comme dans tout projet destiné à un public, il est primordial de bien analyser sa cible. Prenez quelques minutes pour déterminer leur âge, leur sexe, leur profession, leurs hobbies, leur niveau de familiarité avec le web, etc. Ce dernier critère est particulièrement intéressant : une personne qui passe ses journées sur internet sera probablement très familière avec toutes les subtilités d’une interface web et vous pourrez vous aller beaucoup plus loin dans l’interactivité. En revanche, si vous devez concevoir l’intranet d’un cabinet médical, vous adopterez sûrement une approche moins intrusive.Listez les actions qu’ils peuvent effectuer tout au long de leur expérience, et classez-les par ordre d’importance. Par exemple, ils peuvent être amenés à lire vos articles, les commenter et les partager sur les réseaux sociaux, visionner des vidéos, cliquer sur un lien, vous transmettre leur e-mail pour débloquer du contenu, télécharger ce même contenu…Tout doit être fait pour que le joueur (on peut bien l’appeler comme ça, après tout) soit actif et interagisse avec votre contenu.Puisque vous connaissez bien votre cible, vous savez ce qui leur fera plaisir. Pensez à leur offrir des récompenses sous forme de badges, de médailles, de certifications, d’argent virtuel. Permettez-leur de débloquer du contenu exclusif (articles, infographies, vidéos, codes promos). La relation effort / réconfort doit être bien calculée pour motiver vos utilisateurs sans jamais les décourager. Rappelez-vous que vous devez leur procurer des émotions positives. À la différence d’un vrai jeu ou l’on peut tout aussi bien perdre que gagner, la gamification doit être valorisante. Imaginez notre étudiant de 3D Game Labs, déjà en échec scolaire, se retrouver une nouvelle fois en échec sur un jeu censé lui redonner le goût des études !Vous avez tout intérêt à donner envie de revenir sur votre plateforme sur le long terme, afin de fidéliser vos visiteurs, et pour qu’il continuent à partager votre contenu au maximum. Le jeu peut être conçu à deux vitesses : dès son inscription, le joueur fait le maximum d’actions, et gagne rapidement des récompenses; ensuite, pour obtenir des récompenses plus importantes, il devra revenir plusieurs fois, voire régulièrement, car vous ne dévoilez votre contenu qu’au fil du temps. Par exemple, si vous publiez un article chaque mercredi dans votre rubrique hebdomadaire, cela incitera vos visiteurs à revenir toutes les semaines.Prenez une feuille blanche et un crayon, et représentez schématiquement les pages de votre plateforme web. Mettez-vous à la place de votre utilisateur et dessinez son parcours. En réalité, il existe une infinité de parcours différents, du fait de la structure même du web, qui est basé sur des liens hypertextes. Dix utilisateurs peuvent avoir parcouru un même site web via dix parcours différents. Ces petites esquisses (appellées wire-frames) vous aideront à définir les interactions qui sont susceptibles d’exister dans votre parcours utilisateur. Votre UX designer mettra l’accent sur la facilité d’utilisation et l’intuititivité. Par ailleurs, gardez toujours en tête que les actions doievent mener à l’accomplissement de vos objectifs principaux.Avant de vous lancer dans la réalisation complète de votre plateforme, préparez une maquette interactive simplifiée, surtout si votre projet promet d’être colossal. Faites-là tester à vos collègues, amis, et toute personne pouvant se retrouver dans le coeur de cible. N’hésitez pas à agrandir un bouton qui n’est jamais cliqué, à simplifier un processus que les testeurs ne comprennent pas, à ajouter des explications si une partie du parcours n’est pas assez intuitive. Une fois que votre plateforme est lancée, mesurez les interactions via un des nombreux outils de mesure qui cohabitent sur le web (Google Analytics, Crazy Egg…) et récoltez le plus de feedback possible. Ces précieuses données vous apporteront un soutien indispensable pour adapter votre plateforme aux besoins des utilisateurs.Maintenant que vous avez tous ces conseils en poche, je vous vois venir… ça vous donne des idées pour votre projet. Loin de moi l’idée qu’il soit actuellement ennuyeux, mais il pourrait être beaucoup plus drôle. Je serais curieuse de savoir comment vous envisageriez de transformer votre projet en jeu ?Suivez Freelance Graphic Designer based in Brussels. My job is to learn something each day.Trust  Vision

Now, Ive been a dreamer for as long as I can remember. I have always had ideas and dreams, but due to my prolific laziness, 99% of my thoughts have never materialized. Until a couple of years ago, when I decided to create my own web app and become a renowned entrepreneur.Getting back to my app, a couple of weeks ago, I was very happy with one extra feature freshly implemented. It was a list of tags in the middle of the screen and some of them were highlighted using a bright orange color. The reason for the emphasis was to make the user aware of lengthy tags and to take actions against.Being pretty happy with the outcome, I asked my wife her opinion about the design. Her first answer was: While deep down I was hoping for cheers and a parade, I asked her if she thinks some of the items stand out compared to others. The answer was confusing for me. For her, the orange looked well blended in with the overall user interface.And that was when I realized that, instead of looking for a color suited for the functionality and visual feedback, I was trying harder to make the component fit into the overall design. Lesson 1 learned.Remember Teo … my little gem of boy? To characterize him, I would have to say he is an octopus on roller blades. Everything sticks to his hands and he is all over the place in no time.At 6–7 months he was working the TV remote, at 8–9 months he was turning ON/OFF the TV from the touch-enabled power led.Of course the smartphone and tablet are vital these days and my lack of presence near the computer turns him into a tiny hacker. But what I keep discovering with him, is how well some of the interfaces are designed.It is hard to remain idle when seeing him launching Now, let’s not confuse a TV remote, which has around 10 buttons that can fire-up the TV, with a printer. My printer has 20 buttons, with only one Power On/Off and one button for starting the photo-copying.One would argue that being only 20 buttons the probability to accidentally press both buttons is high. But the buttons are opposite both in position and shape.This was the second lesson I learned. The way the buttons are presented using both similarity and proximity principles, provide enough contrast for the main buttons to stand out.Even though we take for granted some designs, moments like these make you wonder how many hours of analysis and testing were invested into the design process. I’m sure I’ll be amazed by Teo in the future but I look forward to discover together with him new well crafted interfaces.Cheers!... a designer.

My journey for a simple Use Case: Shipment Tracking on This Tuesday night I got a message from the Passport Authority that my renewed passport has been dispatched and I could track with a speed post tracking no.My first reaction was to get any insight on when my passport will be delivered, so that I can plan my work from home and let me colleagues know that I would not be available in office.A quick Google search landed me hereNow here is where my bad experiences start.I think this step was unnecessary, I should have got the information I was looking for in the previous step. Well, lets move on.Well now i know that the Indian Postal system works round the clock, impressive. I still don’t have answers to the information I was looking for.Looking at the information, I can infer that the passport has reached the nearest post office, so I might get the delivery today, or maybe not. Maybe if I know where this post office is located, I can drop by on my way to office and not take work from home.My guess on “Click here and enter details to get contact information” worked, it is indeed to find information about the post office.Again, an unnecessary step, initiated only because I was not able to find information about when the delivery be done.I land on this page:Oh wait, Pincode or Office Name ?? Then I read the information in Green above and below the text field, which I ignored as it looked like ad content (center aligned and is link and is in color)A quick look at the other two options:I am not sure why the other two options exist, why couldn’t they have one search box with additional advanced filters. Also can the state field be autofilled based on my IP address?Anyways, I use the information I learned from the previous step that the office name I was looking for is “Vimanapura”. Takes me to next stepErr…. ok one more step here, lets move to Step 6. I would have expected to find an address column in that table to give me what I was looking for.Now this is where I hit the block and gave up. I am given with all details expect for what I was looking for. Only contact information previded here is the telephone number and it is a clue I can use. I could have called them up to find out where the post office was, or better find out if my passport will be delivered that day.I expected this to be two steps:Step 1: Enter my tracking noStep 2: Find estimated delivery date and if time (even a window of 3–4 hours) was provided, I would have been a delighted customer.The Search for contact information can be simplified with smart auto fills, filters for advanced search and providing address and phone no info upfront and maybe even a link to a Google map for the post office.In the end my journey on India Post site for a simple use case took me to 6 steps and I was left with no answers!This post is part of the UX4India series, I plan to publish every week, with my journeys and UX issues encountered on Indian Service Websites (most of which will be Govt services)Ethnographer, observer, user experience designer, part time cook, photographer, design researcher, innovation explorer, customer experience specialistReviews, journeys and analysis about using Indian websites, apps and services. Also thoughts and writings by Indian UXers/Design Thinkers.

All you need is a pen, wall space and post-its for your inner genius to come through.When should you resort to post-its you ask?See! I challenge you to find a moment when the post-it can’t work its magic.Until next week…..If you want to understand how a lion hunts don’t go to the zoo. Go to the jungle. − Jim Stengel                                         #UX

Despite this lifelong love of architectural design, it wasn’t until I was a sophomore biology major at MIT that I realized the depth of my passion for design. I wasn’t entirely happy studying biology — I still think the field is fascinating, but the sciences didn’t quite scratch my creative itch. That year, I spent spring break avoiding biology homework and instead, took my dream house designs to a new level. It was around 3am mid-week when I was studying how to draw different types of windows on a blueprint, that I was struck with a long-overdue epiphany:Now, over ten years later, I’m transitioning from architectural design to user experience design, and I get asked almost daily, “Why are you leaving architecture to do UX?”I have lots of answers — some related to the current economy and job market; some that describe my path from Boston (where I studied and practiced architectural design), to rural Washington (to help care for my husband’s family land, where architecture opportunities are limited), to beginning to learn Python (The best architecture does consider user experience at a deep level. Think of airports that provide excellent wayfinding, museums or banks that practically scream “power” and “class” with their marble floors and majestically tall ceilings, or places of worship that are designed with the appropriate infrastructure and emotional experience for their users. But by and large, user experience is given only token attention in architectural design, and priority is placed on aesthetics, or on what clients After loving architecture school, with its focus on conceptual design, then working four years as an actual architectural designer in the real world, I felt let down by the reality of architectural practice. This is where my mourning comes in. I’m leaving architecture for another field, because it just wasn’t working out.Part of the issue is that usability testing on actual buildings is prohibitively expensive and wasteful. Most architects think within this same old box, never prototyping beyond physical scale models or computer models, but these don’t have the same impact as a ceiling over your head and texture beneath your hands. Another challenge is that buildings often outlive their original occupants. Can static designs continue to meet the goals of changing users?Christopher Alexander (co-author of While I mourn that my beloved field of architecture often neglects its users and, as a result, misses its full potential, I also feel inspired by architects like Christopher Alexander, who do think about their buildings’ occupants. I’m inspired by architecture firms like I’m a UX designer and socially engaged artist, with a passion for creating meaningful human experiences.

Every company wants to build a superb user experience for their customers. I’ve participated in a number of kick-offs where everyone gathers and states unequivocally that the biggest priority for the site redesign is to create a exceptional, user-focused site that will delight customers. But after the kick-off and the hard work of define and design begins, we invariably fall short of this. We make a usable site, but it is not transformative. We build a site that meets our business needs, but the user experience is undercut by various trade-offs and other such decisions. The site does not provide a truly awesome user experience.There is a reason for this:Let’s look at an example where business rules and UX intersect. Picture a company’s ecommerce site. A business rule is created that requires a user be logged in to complete an online purchase. In other words, there is no guest checkout. The business rule would look something like this:How does this business rule impact the user experience? When a guest user arrives at the shopping cart — their product(s) already selected — they will attempt to invoke the “Checkout” button. They will then be informed that they must be logged in to proceed. This means logging in (if they have an account) or creating an account (if they don’t). Let’s look at what these two scenarios look like.If the user remembers their login credentials, this will be a straightforward process. However it’s important to note that we are dealing exclusively with a pool of users who have created an account but have not logged in (meaning users who remember their account are not included). The reasons for not logging in can be several:In every case, being prompted to login is an interruption. The user must change focus from their current task (checkout) to a new task (login). However simple or painful the new task is, the user is blocked from accomplishing their goal (which, in simple terms could be described as: “giving your company money”).This interruption can quickly become more painful if the user cannot remember their login credentials. This will mean requiring the user to complete another task (retrieve password) before they can complete the other new task (login), which they have to complete before they can return to their original task (checkout). However the “Retrieve password” workflow is designed (there are several approaches with varying degrees of frustration), it will likely require the user to wait for an email to arrive with either their password or a link to create a new password. the key word in the previous sentence is “wait.” Not exactly an optimal user experience.Assuming the user is able to complete login — or first complete password retrieval and second complete login — they can then continue on to checkout.The necessary steps for creating an account are a bit more complicated than those for login. Again, the user is diverted from their current task (checkout) to complete a new task (registration).The registration process was likely not designed with the focus of getting users to checkout quickly. More likely it was designed with other priorities in mind. The focus would be on getting the user to provide enough information to build a more complete user profile (some profile questions may be optional, but are still included). Does the registration form require more information than email address and password? Are profiling/marketing questions included? These inclusions increase the amount of time it will take the user to complete registration. However long or short the form is, at some point the user will likely need to submit their registration and wait for a confirmation email When it arrives, this email will include a validation link to activate their account. This will then redirect them back to the site and prompt them to login (see the flow described above). Only then can the user navigate back to the shopping cart to continue on to checkout.In both scenarios — All of this is the unavoidable impact of a single business rule:There may be legitimate reasons for this rule (products are regulated) and there may be less-important reasons for this rule (profile information is wanted to improve marketing). Whatever the rationale behind the creation of a business rule — for good, bad, or necessary — one must understand that it will impact the user experience.UX guy in Boston. Tweet me at At the intersection of UX and eCommerce

Recentemente, em um dos projetos que estou trabalhando, tive a oportunidade de testar uma nova forma de encarar as etapas e entregáveis do processo de Design.Ao invés do tradicional waterfall, onde o processo segue a ordem Wireframes  Layouts  Protótipo  Front-End  Back-End, a ordem dos elementos e entregáveis aparece de forma um pouco invertida. É algo que muitas startups já aplicam, mas achei interessante ver o processo aplicado em uma agência e ser guiado essencialmente por profissionais de UX (mais do que project managers ou profissionais com funções similares).São 3 grandes etapas, cada uma dividida em etapas menores e envolvendo um grupo diferente de profissionais:Mas storyboards logo no começo, antes mesmo de um documento técnico que explica como o sistema funciona?Isso mesmo.A partir do momento em que os storyboards estão aprovados, o time de desenvolvedores já começa a trabalhar na estrutura do sistema. É claro que os UX Designers podem ajudar o desenvolvedor a detalhar o escopo do que será desenvolvido, até que todas as dúvidas sejam esclarecidas. Sim, é um processo exaustivo e as reuniões de detalhamento de escopo podem durar até quatro horas seguidas. Mas elas soam menos como “reuniões” e mais como “workshops”, o que deixa o trabalho bem mais interessante.Na terceira e última etapa, o processo de detalhamento da interface e design visual andam juntos e contam com mínima documentação necessária (principalmente porque os desenvolvedores já entenderam como funciona o sistema). Alguns É claro que esse processo funciona bem em alguns contextos, em outros nem tanto. Nesse exemplo que eu citei, para que os storyboards fossem produzidos foi necessário inverter um pouco a proporção de UX versus Visual Designers (3 para 1). Vai depender também da disponibilidade de alocação do time.Mas mais do que tentar eleger uma E convenhamos: trabalhar com storyboards deixam o trabalho beeeem mais agradável ☺Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

If you’re a freelance UX designer or product manager, full-time, in an office, both a UX/UI designer, or anything along these lines, you’re probably in an incessant frenzy making sure your team, most importantly the developers, are on the same page with you. If you haven’t yet mastered Omnigraffle, Visio, Photoshop or other relatable software then this post can be quite beneficial to you. Even if you’re a pro with these things, Google Drive can save you ample time for lesser design oriented tasks due to it’s simplicity and collaborative nature. Here’s why:Although I often use Omnigraffle for higher level wireframing, Google Drive Presentation provides a quick and easy-to-use alternative. A common drawback about robust UX software like Omnigraffle or Visio is that it has TOO MANY options when it comes to shapes, screen sizes, arrows, and whatnot. Often for a beginner, or even someone with more experience, they can waste ample time playing with different styles, sizes, and shapes when all the client or developers wants is a super simple state diagram to visualize the flow. Like a lot of things in the startup-sphere, there is not 1 way to design a UX flow or UX Requirement Sheet, let alone a creating an entire user experience. I’ve gotten great value out of using Google Slides for my UX flow. Like I mention in #2, you can link different slides (i.e. screens) to it interactive so instead of saying something like “’home’ goes to ‘new’ upon tapping arrow’” — you can ACTUALLY go to the new screen upon tapping arrow. I’ve worked in mostly small teams — 4 developers tops, once in a while a designer (if it’s not myself), the CTO, and the client. When it’s this small you need a tool that gets your point across but all garners feedback ASAP on everything so you’re not redoing to many things. Google Drive allows this. Use arrows and hyperlinks to show transition between slides. Be specific as possible in your descriptions, use arrows, links to github repositories, and anything else to make the UX design crystal clear before sharing it with your team. I do apps, but this is easily relatable for design the user experience of other technologies. Don’t get to wordy. Get to know what works and what doesn’t work with your team. Know the best way to communicate. You need to get the MVP out there and start getting user feedback! Google Drive is a huge help with this because not only does it auto save your last move, but all google drive docs allow for seamless team feedback via ‘comments’ (I’ve went over 4 of my favorite things about Google Drive I almost forgot to mention the backbone of it’s software — the cloud! Ahhh what a beautifully organized and carefully designed cloud it is. If you end up using Drive for wireframing, UX flows, state diagrams, technical specifications (via Google Document), and other things it’s awesome being able to work and save within the save environment. They clearly put a focus on the end user when creating this thing. No need to push heavy zip files via email to your teammates, just hit ‘share’ and they’ll get it on the fly for their viewing pleasure. And if more than one person can edit a specific doc you can see whom and when it was edited. For hyper detailed designers like myself, it’s so nice not having to dig and search through email time stamps of old docs. And don’t forget Google Drive has a slick app which achieves most of it’s core functionalities. Don’t sleep on this one as I’ve used it many many times to show someone screenshots and get needed feedback on the go. You don’t have to ask your designer for that Dropbox link again, or dig through your emails.Voila! It’s all right there.Check out my app Currently working on an anonymous app for a late August release, find out more Born  raised in the Virgin Islands. Brooklyn for now. Building  learning as I go — No IT Dept: You’re On Your Own

I went to university in Uppsala, Sweden. Studied engineering with focus on HCI (human-computer interactions). My master thesis described the UX design process, and let me tell you, I locked that sh*t down son! I had it all figured out. The design process (investigate, ideation, sketch, wireframe, test, iterate, test, prototype, test, develop… launch) felt logical and natural to me. After graduating in 2010 I was ready to take on the world (well, the UX world) and felt eager to start working. I knew exactly what it was all about. I was fully ripe.An awesome agency welcomed me into their arms. I was so excited! The office was just as “non-officy” as I had hoped for, we even had Google fridays (meaning we could focus on whatever we wanted as long as it was work related-ish). There were wireframes, screen grabs and mood boards scattered all over the walls. Wacom boards. Huge 27” screens. Pinball machine. The works. Everything was just as I had imagined it.Then one day, when the ink on my employment papers had just dried, we were in a meeting with the design group together with the CEO and other noble hens. Even though I was confident within my field of work I was still a youngin and didn’t want to make to much racket. I was standing against the wall, paying attention to the conversation. The conversation escalated into a fiery discussion, people became frustrated and some left the room. There was even some name calling. I remember being stunned (yet slightly amused) leaning up against the wall with my arms crossed.I wanted to say something, something pedagogical and maybe mildly stupefying, but I didn’t. I didn’t because of my juniority I guess.In the following three years at the agency, the same kind of discussion arose numerous times, and me, well I kept quiet most of the time. Not because of my juniority, but because I understood the reason for this seemingly never ending loop of discussions. Just about everyone has their own POV, their own understanding of how to go about the UX-process. Everybody I’ve worked for two other agencies since then. One in London and another one here in Sweden. Do we often end up in the very same discussions? Indeed we do. Will we ever find a universal solution? Probably not. The reason for this is twofold - 1) As mentioned before, everybody has their own way of looking at it, and 2) Our field of work is ever changing, ever expanding, leading to new POV’s, new approaches. Unless a paradigm shift is in sight, we’re gonna have to deal with these circumstances and make the best of it.Or if you have a good solution or thoughts, bring it!

I get often involved into discussions subjected to ‘What do we include into this offering?’. As most of those offerings are targeting business applications, people have the bad attitude to prioritize several aspects lower than they would for apps used in the private environment. Why? I have no clue either.One of those aspects is always the user interface. In the business environment employees are often confronted with applications that have terrible designed user interfaces and provide bad user experiences (think of large ERP systems, horrible applications built on top of Microsoft® Access or similar tools, …). This leads to the fact that software developers / solution managers or whoever is taking care of the quote often ignore the UX aspect. Mostly with the excuse: “It was always bad, the user is used to that”.Of course this assumption is not right at all and such statements are just ridiculous. I love to challenge the people who state such things with one simple question: “What car are you driving?”. In 99% percent you get an answer which includes a car brand in the medium to high end price range. If so, I suggest them that they should exchange their car for a crapy, broken car. Those cars drive as well from one point to the other and so they fullfill the purpose of the car. The same as those terrible business applications fullfill their purpose of getting the daily work done.Of course you get the work done but just not in an effective and convenient way.No one likes to use an ugly looking tool. A printed paper sheet gets the work also done, but just not as good as an application which provides great user experience (and is designed in a attracting way).So please stop to ignore the user experience and design aspects when creating software. And it is not just user experience because you write it in the offer!CEO and co-founder of konoma GmbH / Software Developer / User Experience DesignerPosts, ideas and opinions related to web and mobile software

Esse é meu primeiro post aqui no Medium e para quem não me conhece, meu nome é Thais Souza trabalho com UX a mais de 9 anos e antes meu foco era totalmente voltado para Mobile. Participei de app mobile da Cielo,Americanas, Submarino, Shoptime e PSafe Total.A novidade é que estou saindo desse foco Mobile esse ano e assumindo um novo desafio em minha carreira, que é o de trabalhar na área de inovação em uma empresa de BI aqui no Rio de Janeiro. Minha missão e trazer novidades do mercado e construir produtos que possam ser aproveitados pela empresa. Até aí tudo bem, mas o que isso tem a ver com UX e Front-end?Calma, já vou chegar lá.Meu primeiro desafio encontrado aqui na empresa, é deixar um pouco de lado meu foco em Mobile que já estava me acompanhando durante uns bons anos e voltar a trabalhar e acompanhar esse universo WEB. Acho que parei de acompanhar e ler a respeito quando foi lançado o HTML5 e CSS3, que já faz um bom tempo né?Nesse meu novo desafio, está embutido em uma das minhas funções criar protótipos que possam ser testados e apresentados pela empresa. Como aqui os funcionários fazem mais de uma função para deixar a empresa enxuta e ágil, terei que me deparar com linguagens de Front-End(HTML, CSS, JS entre outras)para construir esses protótipos mantendo sempre o foco no produto e na experiência do usuário claro.Para muitos da área de UX ter que lidar com programação front-end foge totalmente do objetivo, porém lendo muitos artigos vi que essa realidade de UX que sabe programação front-end não é muito distante, até pelo contrário, esse perfil de profissional tem sido muito procurado pelas empresas.Como eu sempre gostei um pouco de codificar não estou vendo nenhum problema nisso, até porque curto essa filosofia de empresa mais enxuta, porém é claro, terei uma curva de aprendizado grande nesse meu novo caminho.Já estou tendo a acesso a novas e velhas experiências como Eu tenho uma base lógica de programação que ainda está um pouco enferrujada mas já abri minha cabeça para aprender mais sobre essas linguagens e acho que isso pode até melhorar minhas skills de UX. Será?Bem nos próximos posts devo desenvolver mais essa questão de programação front-end/ux e postando aqui o que for aprendendo, como aprendi e como isso está afetando minhas habilidades em UX.Por enquanto é isso.Thais Souza

When General Assembly decided to add a new full-time, immersive program to its suite of educational offerings, user experience (UX) design was the clear topic of choice. UX is a rapidly growing field looking for talented designers passionate about shaping the future, and we were excited to design a program that prepared these folks to do just that. With that, the User Experience Design Immersive (UXDI) program was born.UXDI is truly the first of its kind. We’ve been able to take skills and methods that have developed over the last 20 years and turned them into one of the first formal programs to teach UX design. Through the process of creating the course, we learned a lot about how UX should be taught, and developed the following three guiding philosophies:“It depends” is a key part of any UX designer’s vocabulary, but its use in a classroom environment can lead to pretty significant frustration. There are plenty of reasons why teaching UX is quite ambiguous; this is, after all, a rapidly evolving field that prides itself on prioritizing the user and not trying to find the best answer, but rather going after better answers.Ambiguity, like anything in life, should be used in moderation in a classroom setting. Too little ambiguity leaves no room for learning; students shouldn’t have all of the answers provided to them. Too much ambiguity gets in the way of students trying to answer the right questions, and the learning experience begins to quickly unravel.It was our goal to have UXDI walk the fine line of ambiguity-nirvana. We constantly ask ourselves, “is this the problem students should be struggling with?” From the very beginning, we establish a culture that embraces failure and experimentation, and sees ambiguity as a design problem waiting to be solved. The next step was to give students the skills and opportunities to solve those problems.UX is a hands-on field, and therefore should be taught as such. As a UX designer you are constantly researching, sketching, building, testing, and presenting your ideas. The only real way to learn those skills is to do them, over and over again.We were fortunate to have incredible designers join us as curriculum authors and instructors, including Christina Wodtke (@cwodtke), Hong Qu (@hqu), Aynne Valencia(@aynne), and Donna Lichaw (@dlichaw). As a group, we spoke a great deal about the learning experiences we cherished the most. We wanted UXDI to feel like a cooking class: a healthy mix of demonstrations and lecturing with a heavy emphasis on hands-on practice and experimentation.We designed every day of UXDI to be comprised of classes, where students learn about new concepts and skills, and workshops, where they get to actually apply those new skills to team-based projects. This structure has allowed our students to truly learn by doing, and therefore create dishes far more delicious than we had ever expected.The UX community has always relied on conferences, books, and the web to pass on methods and practices. The entire field has been built on a word-of-mouth system that has created an incredibly tight-knit network of UX designers. It was crucial for us to continue that tradition in UXDI.The first step was to build a strong community within the classroom. We spent most of the first day of class getting to know each other, and deciding, as a group, what we wanted our classroom culture to be like. The following weeks involved class happy hours, group outings, rooftop parties, and late-night dinners, culminating in a graduating class of close friends.We also wanted to connect UXDI to the larger UX community by creating guest speaking opportunities. Students got to hear from and hang out with some of the best user researchers, information architects, content strategist, and designers in the field, including Luke Miller (@younglucas), Indi Young (@indiyoung), Abby Covert(@Abby_the_IA), and Tomer Sharon (@tsharon). We also got to visit some amazing companies — such as Tumblr, Google, R/GA, Citrix,  Meetup — to meet their teams and talk about what the day-to-day life of a UX designer looks like.These outside perspectives kept us all motivated, and reminded us of the much larger UX community out there.–We are constantly adjusting the way we approach teaching different topics, whether in UXDI or our other long-form courses, and would love to hear your thoughts on the matter. Tweet us @GA or to me directly @andreplaut to keep the conversation going.Product Lead 

To switch from my @DenverStreetArt account to my personal account To do the same on Instagram requires In addition, every time you log out, Instagram also clears your cashe of previously used hashtags and user mentions (ones you don’t follow). Less of an issue on my personal account, but creates redundant work and increases the likelihood of a mistake after I return to my @DenverStreetArt account. I’ll have to dive out-of-screen to pull-up, verify, and find pertinent information I’d previously gathered and used. Information that would’ve otherwise been autopopulated in a queue after typing in a couple characters. As a result, I’ve both inadvertently misspelled someones handle and my own hashtag before. Information that should’ve just appeared in a list for me to pick out. An issue only compounded by my dyslexia — there’s a reason I’m more of a visual person.It’s annoying and embarasing when it happens, and has resulted in the abandonment of my personal account. I recently posted on it for the first time in over two months and two-and-a-half months was my post prior to that. This qualifies me as an “inactive user” for those all-important social media platform stats that get spouted out each month.So, Instagram, for your benifit and mine, as I take photos that I’d like to post on my personal account, please function a bit more like Twitter in reguards to swapping between accounts.While you’re at it, will you (Facebook) just makeup with Twitter already. It does everyone a disservice when shared Instagram posts end up on Twitter A chronic creative in Denver currently exploring street art in society though the 

UX is becoming so cool, isn’t it? Suddenly, all the designers realized that if they want their designs to success, they need to worry about their users.That’s why it is very common to find in CV’s and resumes UI/UX designer, Frontend  UX developer… And it sounds like user experience is only about content distribution, page interaction, friendly colours, testing frontend interaction… but UX isHuman Computer Interaction analyses user experience, tests the For all of those who think that UX is only a frontend responsability, please Coding. Geeking. Feeling. Nerding. Living. Loving.small projects to share

Karena kata  rupa saling memberi makna.Interaksi dasar ini sering kali terabaikan oleh (rata-rata) visual designer karena memang fokusnya adalah untuk membuat desain tampilan. Anda ingat bagaimana kita bermain dengan Berbeda halnya dengan UX Designer, dimana dalam posisi ini kita harus peka terhadap Pada awal bulan Maret kemarin, saya berkesempatan untuk mengikuti serangkaian Nah, bahasan pada artikel ini sebetulnya hanya potongan dari sesi yang dibawakan. Walaupun terlihat Visual memiliki kekuatan menimbulkan Bagaimana menurut Anda desain website di atas? Ya, gambar latar yang besar dengan foto Raisa bersama teman-temannya langsung menimbulkan rasa ketertarikan kita pada website ini dengan instan. Pertama karena sosok dalam gambar itu dekat dengan Sebelumnya saya seringkali tidak menyadari apakah Pada workshop Mari kita ambil suatu contoh penawaran produk di bank.Pada penawaran ini kita dapat melihat ada list dari keunggulan yang ditawarkan. Untuk mengetahui apakah copy itu sudah relevan dengan konteks bahasa dari pengguna, kita tentukan dulu suatu parameter untuk Positif dan negatifnya.Parameter Ini bisa berupa daftar persepsi terhadap objek. Misalkan untuk produk bank, parameter positifnya adalah:Berikutnya, Parameter Negatif:Cukup mudah kan? Oke, parameter sudah tersedia. Mari kita mulai eksperimennya!Pada daftar keunggulan itu, coba Anda buat setiap poin keunggulannya dibalik sehingga sangat negatif.Biasanya proses negasi ini relatif mudah, Anda bisa mengisinya kurang dari lima menit. Bisa jadi Anda mendapatkan ide negasinya lebih dari satu. Memang mudah ya untuk berfikir negatif? :D hehehe…Ya, Anda tahu apa yang pengguna khawatirkan terhadap poin-poin keunggulan ini. Dan informasi ini bisa Anda gunakan untuk menjaga persepsi tentang produk Anda.Proses kedua ini sama dengan proses yang pertama, hanya tantangannya adalah Anda harus membuatnya terasa lebih positif dari sebelumnya.Dalam proses ini biasanya Anda membutuhkan lebih banyak waktu untuk berfikir, karena apa yang sudah netral terkesan “yah, mau apa lagi yang diubah?”Satu saran yang bisa digunakan, Anda bisa coba persepsi baru. Misalnya, dengan mencari tahu keuntungan dengan poin keunggulan itu.Contoh: “Transaksi pembayaran dalam hitungan detik” - karena cepatnya proses sehingga Anda hanya perlu tap kartu Anda dan transaksi pun selesai. Jadi, poin keuntungan ini lah yang bisa kita perkuat untuk ditawarkan kepada pengguna.Nah, demikian yang saya dapatkan dan bisa saya Tunggu bagian keduanya :DDigital Product  UX DesignerKumpulan hasil pengalaman di industri. Publikasi ini (umumnya) berbahasa Indonesia.

Let me start off by making one thing very clear, The first hour or so may be a little slow and clunky to veterans and newcomers alike — but stick with it. The world of Ferelden soon opens up to a sense of scale and grandeur rarely seen in video games.With an equally rocky start to the world of video games in 2014, it may also be the best value game of the year. The sheer amount of interesting things to do in this living, breathing world is almost as intimidating as the titular winged beasts that inhabit it, who are waiting to eat you alive and/or burn you to a crisp. It will keep you entertained for a The more I play as the As an avid UI/UX designer it’s hard not to analyse experiences. And as a lover of solving challenges and problems, it’s hard not to dream up a better way to do things. With that in mind and I have chosen the PS4 version of the game as the basis of this article.Dragon Age, like any good RPG is all about kicking ass and saving the world, but not without “Bioware have done an excellent job of recognising the users need to hunt down loot, and have made it much easier to fulfil that need, and indeed one of the primary functions of the game. My main gripe is that it’s rather unfortunately bound to pressing the left thumbstick — a.k.a. the “The touchpad on Sony’s new controller is a game changer (sorry Xbone!), and also gives us a great solution to our problem. It’s been utilised in some interesting ways so far, and titles like Child of Light have shown us how accurate and responsive this pad can be.This lead me to the thinking — With this newfound power you could see your own location in context to the loots location, and be able to walk into rooms and wide open spaces alike, quickly and seamlessly assess the landscape for objectives. Making our favourite past time of stealing everything a much more pleasurable, effortless experience!There is so much going on in DA:I at any one time. One look at the the war room map will tell you so — that’s if you are willing to hike through menus, up stairs, and through doors to see it (more on that up next).DA:I’s pause menu is just as it sounds like. A menu. And a very usable, direction based menu at that. While this is hardly a sin, in all fairness it seems like a bit of a waste in a world so large and adventurous.Every time I hit the pause button to check out a new item or level up a character, I couldn’t help but dream up better uses of this prime real estate than the radial menu I am presented with.It could’ve been my central HUB, an infographic style passport to everything happening across Thedas. I could have the mission progress and status of all my agents at my fingertips. I could have my party’s stats. I could have my progress towards my current objectives. Fact’s and snippets of lore about the expansive world in front of me. I am the leader of the Inquisition, and I need this information in front of me at all times to do my job effectively.In my first few hours of the game, right up until now, I have been absolutely in awe of the sheer amount of things to do in every single area of the game. It feels as if Bioware took the main criticism of DA:II and it’s somewhat small environments as a challenge, and a mission statement — and I love it!When exploring this huge world, your best friend is the left D-Pad shortcut that takes you straight to the straight to the map. It saves so much time and let’s you get back into what you should be doing. But while the map is absolutely essential, so is the Inventory screen. After nearly almost every fight I find myself going in and looking at my hard earned spoils, but compared to the map it feels like a huge chore. This poor old staple of all good RPGs is relegated to a process that seems simple at first, but ultimately soon becomes a drag. After the hundredth time of having to open the pause menu, take the stick to the right, and confirm your intent — you will be wishing for a shortcut.This bringing me to my solution — why not give the user the best of both worlds, quick access to a vast amount of resources, and important functions. Let’s think about the need for this barrier. The user needs to be able to access quite a lot of functions and content. You’ve got your But there has to be a better way, so let’s think about it. Which of these do I use the most? Which of these do I hardly use at all? This would all depend on your play style of course, so i’m going to go on my own personal preference as an example of how frequently I use each of the options.Upon quick analysis it seems that out of these 9 options, I only have 2 that I use frequently, a further 2 infrequently, and 5 that I hardly use at all, sometimes never. When planning UI it is very important to consider the user’s needs, and prioritise accordingly. The best interface is a minimal one, the perfect interface is an invisible one.With that in mind, why not relegate this unimportant navigation structure — that takes up the entire screen, to where it belongs?A tabbed interface, navigable by the shoulder buttons would allow quick access to all of the most important facets of the game, without interference. Five main tabs across the top:The user then doesn’t have to choose and submit every time they need access, they can just scroll through effortlessly to access all of their information, provided in order of preference and usefulness! And thus shaving off an extra step every minute or so. Instead of The codex can take a place inside of the Journal, and all of the options can be under the one tab. In this tab could be handy contextual shortcuts assigned to face buttons while you are viewing it — ■ square to save, ∆ triangle to load, like on some existing screens. Easy to access if you need it, and hidden out of the way when you don’t.We can also possibly take this one step further, and have the user start in the 3. Options | 2. Journal The art of the DA:I is Applying a flatter, more streamlined style to the HUD (as illustrated above) would help negate to these distractions, and as bonus would complement the character portraits. It would also bring it in line with current design trends.Diablo has shown us that the touchpad can be versatile, in that it isn’t just a giant button — It’s Why not follow suit and do the same thing here? Use the majority of the pad to enter tactical mode, but the bottom corners to provide easy shortcuts to two of the most important facets of the game!For bonus points, why not go even further and promote two other commonly used functions, your trusty In an RPG, What’s the first thing you think when you get a shiny new sword, or a new helmet? The answer is almost always Blizzard seemed to have figured this out while they were making Currently DA:I hides these stats away, forcing the player to press square twice to compare the currently equipped items with those in the list. As we’ve established, one of our primary goals in the inventory is comparing stats between items, so they should really be the central focus. By adding in a persistent comparison mechanism (as shown below), we can take away any barriers and interactions between the user and their goals, giving the inventory a much needed usability boost.Another slight improvement to the current inventory screen would be to stop “While this is a smart move as it provides context and availability of the items to the current character — adding and subtracting items causes the list to reorder, sometimes drastically, and it can become very confusing.In the example above I am looking at the inventory with The Inquisitor selected, and see that I have some Heavy Armor that I cannot wear, as it is for warriors only. Cassandra is my go-to warrior, and I want to equip it on her. But by switching through the characters to Cassandra, the heavy armor moves within the list, as The inquisitors items are removed, and Cassandra’s are added in. In this example it only moves by one row, but it can occasionally get worse. The list is sorted as far as I can tell by item level, and a few times the items added in via characters are just above or below the item I was looking at, and in screen such as accessories this can sometimes push the item up and down by four rows, which really threw me out.A really simple solution for this would be to use a system already implemented! The notification that an item is equipped actually lists the character that it is equipped by. This handy bit of context seems a little superfluous though currently, as we are already on that character, and there are no other equipped items in the list save for those on my character already. So by default, you know that the equipped items belong to that character. Now that we’ve moved the Loot Radar to the touchpad, we can now give the inquisitor what he or she desperately needs — Muscle memory causes me to press the left thumbstick in most games to achieve the same thing — move faster. While mounted in DA:I, instinct doesn’t fail, and the sprint button stirs your trusty steed into a canter. While it’s good that this meets my expectations, it’s also quite jarring to have a completely separate behaviour for navigation on foot — made worse with the fact that the mount sprint feels very underpowered. The wind marks surrounding your mount feel betrayed by an only slightly increased speed. I’ve heard inquisition perks can be used to make your mounts faster, but all mounts I have tried so far feel like they are going half the speed they should.Not being able to run faster on the ground is frustrating, especially with such massive expanses to cover. The world is huge, and beautiful, and I want to see all of it, but it seems like it is going to take far too long. Speeding up the mounts (by quite a lot) and giving the player the ability to sprint on the ground would improve a players experience dramatically. Not having to rely on mounts so much would also negate the negative effects of mounted travel, such as your party disappearing (which makes you miss the excellent banter), and not being able to search for loot (which could be solved by using the touchpad). Give the player the opportunity to travel slowly when they want to take in the breathtaking views, but when needed, give them the speed to get from A to B.Jumping is awesome. It could be the best addition to the series yet. Getting one of my mage friends to pop a barrier, and using the Rogue’s awesome dodge ability to jump off a cliff feels just as crazy and amazing as it should.Even though jumping in battle is actually detrimental (as you cant attack while airborne), I find myself jumping in and out of packs of enemies. It defies logic, but I keep doing it over and again. It’s fun, and I love it. That is, except if I am fighting near a rift, or near a chest, or a ladder, etc.The jump button, rather unceremoniously has been mapped to the same button as the interaction button. This becomes a major problem when it comes to how the users intent is interpreted. You see, you often don’t have to be looking at an object — and sometimes don’t have to been anywhere near it — to activate it. You can be a fair distance from a rift, and stuck in a fire, trying to get away. You try to jump, but instead the inquisitor raises a hand mysteriously into the sky, green lightning streaming out — and you’re dead before you realise that you accidentally triggered the prompt to “disrupt the rift”. Confusing intent is a big gripe of mine in other games as well, such as Far Cry’s unwillingness to separate the loot button from picking up guns, making it quite difficult to loot effectively.I completely understand the lack of real estate on the controller, and X has been mapped to jump already. But with the user already accommodated to the existing system of using the Rifts are fantastic. Slowly wiping them off the map gives a real sense of accomplishment. It’s fun, and in addition to the incredibleUnfortunately after a dozen or so, the repetition of these rifts starts to spoil the adventure. There doesn’t seem to be much variances in the enemies that you face, and after you’ve killed a handful and all is said and done, you are presented with the an animation. The same animation, every time.This might not be a bad thing, if only the animation wasn’t so, well, And that’s it. It’s hardly the epic battle we’re sold on the cover.Bioware in the past have usually provided a few water-cooler moments in each game, and I fell like rifts were a missed opportunity to create a plethora of these.During the first major battle of the game, I couldn’t help but feel that there wasn’t any There doesn’t seem to be any ramifications if I don’t close a rift. In fact, earlier on in the game I found one above my level, and when I realised I didn’t have a chance, I just turned tail and ran away. Once I was out of range, my battered and beaten team simply picked themselves off the ground, dusted themselves off, and teleported over to me.I cant believe I’m going to say this, but I feel like rifts need quick time events (Im so, so sorry). Imagine having to move your Inquisitors hands with the touchpad, and struggle against the rift to close it. Imagine if the rift was so powerful that it would violently suck everything around it in, be it scenery, animals — I feel that kind of real danger would completely change the game into something far more epic and meaningful. Lose someone to a rift, miss the quicktime event, and they are gone — Such high stakes could exponentially increase the endless scenarios that could be created by the end of the game, and also hugely increase the replay value.A landscape of different stories where one player could lose Dorian to a rift, very early on and wasn’t able to deal with a certain time manipulating character. Another lost a romantic interest, another their entire party. One could potentially end up losing someone so essential to the mission — such as Cassandra, and have to deal with the huge ramifications upon returning to the war council — maybe even Bioware have truly created a living breathing world in Thedas. The sheer size is absolutely The Western Approach has become my favourite place to be. I’ve spent hours in this one desert hunting dragons, setting up camps, taking over forts, and helping my people survive the harsh environment. I am not even half way finished what in any other game would equate to a level, and even when visiting familiar areas, I still stop and admire the view.The wildlife system is so much fun. Little foxes can follow you around, playing at your feet. Herds of deer sense you from a mile away. Dragons try and eat you. It’s an integral part of what makes the world feel alive.The attention to detail is everywhere. In cinematic conversations, you can see the texture of a characters clothes and skin, as well as the notches on their weapons. There is detail everywhere, andIf only the user had the ability to While I realise that a lot of these changes would require a lot of work and most likely only be capable in a sequel, I think there are smaller improvements that Bioware could make in updates that would drastically improve players experiences.While I’ve really enjoyed dreaming up better ways to do things, the truth of the matter is that I have enjoyed every minute of it so far, and I’m more than certain I am going to put far too much time into trying to get 100% completion. It really feels like the start of a new generation, and such huge endeavours are always going to have slight teething pains.Oh and, Bioware, feel free to use any of these suggestions, just make sure to include me as a bad-ass rogue in the next one!Crayons/Dreams Department (Design and UX Lead) from Melbourne, Australia - loves building things, comic nerd, record junkie, gamer, people lover.Bringing the world of UX/UI to games. Some thoughts on usability and design in the gaming world. 

Xeroはクラウド会計のスタートアップで、主に中小企業をターゲットとして 30万以上の企業や個人に使用されています。また、これまでの調達額は240億円を超えています。Xeroの特徴は、その使いやすいUXデザインと言われています。クラウド会計という、BtoBでかつ専門的な分野を扱う中で、UXデザインに主軸をおいています。そんなXeroがUXについて大切にしていることを共有してくれました。Xeroはテクノロジーオリエンテッドではなく、デザインオリエンテッドのカンパニーです。人々の生活がよくなる方向へサービスを向けています。このカルチャーを会社全体に浸透させるために日々格闘しています。難しい部分ですが、とても重要です。そのためXeroでは全ての職種の人がUXのミーティングに出席するようにしています。顧客からの声を持っているセールスも、エンジニアもデザイナーもすべての職種の人をです。例えば、エンジニアの一人でも、UXの意識を高くもってくれれば、それが他のエンジニアにも伝わっていくようになります。そうやって伝播していくようになります。全員が、常に美しいものをつく意識を保つようにしています。UIとUXは離して考えられない。素晴らしいUXには、素晴らしいUI、グラフィックデザインが必要です。“Tell not to build this screen, but whole story behind and around it.”所属しているUIデザイナーには画面ではなく、その背後にあるストーリーを頭に入れてつくるように伝えています。素晴らしいデザイナーは、ひとつの画面だけではなく、経験すべてをデザインするべきです。Xeroでは、サンフランシスコ/ニューヨーク/ニュージーランド/ロンドンにそれぞれデザインチームがいます。そのためInvisionを使って、リモートでミーティングを行っています。UIが決まったら、InVisionでつくられたものをusertesting.comを介してユーザーからの意見をもらって改善を繰り返しています。今回のトークの概要はサンフランシスコと東京でエンジニアをしています

I’ll confess, I never really wanted to be a UX designer. If you’d have asked me in my ill-fitting school uniform (is there any other kind?) what I wanted to be when I grow up, I certainly wouldn’t have said, “oh that’s easy, helping to improve the user experience of digital products and services”. Like a lot of UX professionals I’ve kind of fallen in to the profession and that’s ok, it’s been a nice cushioned fall, but it’s not what I’ve always dreamed of doing. I love my job (well most days), I love my profession and I love the UX community, but my first love was, and always will always be sport (unless my wife is reading this, in which case it’s obviously you darling).I love all sport. I love playing sport, I love watching sport and I love talking about sport. I’m the kind of guy that starts reading the newspaper back to front, starting with the sports section at the back and then moving on to the boring ‘proper news’ at the front. When I was growing up all that I wanted to do was play sport, and all I wanted to be when I did grow up was a professional sportsman. Not for the money, or the fame, or the glory (although I wouldn’t say no to any of those), but because I absolutely bloody love playing sports. I can think of nothing better than to get paid for doing something that you’d willing do for free. How many of us can say that about our job?Sadly whilst my sporting passion and enthusiasm weren’t lacking, my talent certainly was and being picked as captain of the school football team (or soccer team to any American readers) and winning the player of the year award for my Sunday league football team still remain as the high points of my less than illustrious sporting career. Happily a childhood playing sport has not been for nothing because as it turns out it’s provided a great apprenticeship for my eventual career as a UX designer. You see like football, basketball, hockey, rugby, baseball, netball, cricket, ice hockey and countless other sports, UX design is at its heart a team sport. Sure the rules are somewhat different and you don’t get to wear a snazzy team kit (nothing stopping you though), but it’s a team sport none the less and as such is best played like one. Let me explain.To help me do this I’m going to talk about football, well If you’ve ever played football before then I’m sure that you’ll be familiar with the lesser spotted ball-hog. Every school yard and park kickabout has at least one. A player that just wants to keep the ball for himself. A player that rarely if ever passes to their teammates. A player that will shoot for goal rather than pass to a teammate in a better position and will always demand the ball, even when surrounded by opposition players. Well I’m sorry to say that a lot of UX designers are ball-hogs. It’s true. We (and I’m as guilty as anyone) have a terrible tendency to hog the proverbial ‘UX design’ ball. We want to keep hold of the ball and never let it go. We want to wield absolute authority over every aspect of our precious design. No, you can’t do that because I don’t like it. Yes, it has to look exactly like the mock-up. What do you mean it’s going to be a nightmare to build it like that.As anyone who has played with a ball-hog will know, it’s infuriating and unless the ball-hog happens to be (match winner) You see it’s important to remember that whilst each player in a football team has their specific role, they’re not just constrained to that role. Every player can and most definitely should contribute above and beyond their role to help the team. Defenders should not only defend but also attack and even score the odd goal or two. Strikers should not only score and create goals, but also defend (unless they’re Cristiano Ronaldo). Even goalkeepers have been known to score the odd goal now and then (So don’t be a UX design ball-hog. Play nicely with your team mates and remember that no one player is bigger than the team. As the baseball legend UK based UX designer and researcher. Checkout out my blog (UX for the Masses) for more about me.

We work in an environment where even the smallest actions are quantifiable. Platforms such as Google Analytics, Y! Analytics, etc. provide insightful data on conversions, campaigns, et al. But in a data driven world, creating a good user experience and using statistically driven design is a fine line. You can have both. But making a better design choice does not always equal the best statistically significant findings.Let’s give an example where you should separate both methods. You are tasked to redesign a news website. Current data shows that 80% of users do not scroll past 750px down the page. Product managers are insisting that you design 4 more content boxes above the 750px mark, which is already cluttered. In theory this makes sense. More content above the 750px mark would equal into more click-throughs and more exposure for content. Adding 4 more content boxes reduces the user’s ability to scan the page. He/she hits a state of cognitive overload and jumps to another news site. The new layout may form selective attention and blindness to a cluttered page. Now content that was supposed to get more exposure becomes suppressed.There are times where data plays a large role in the success of a product or feature. For instance; choosing the right hue of grey for a call-out section of a news site. If a designer would multivariate test different shades of grey, he/she may notice a percentage increase in CTR. A 2% lift in CTR provides value — all because the designer chose to use data as a guide for their design process.The above example is a truly raw case of how data should not dictate a design decision. To some degree, we’ve all been faced with choosing between data or the best design. I love data. I think it’s a great tool for any UX professional. Just remember to let data guide and not dictate.Let me hear your thoughts, opinions — Follow me Product Designer at Pivotal Labs

My thoughts about a Without getting into the details of the iterations and the This led us to a first uninteresting result: an information repository useful to the patient and the people taking care of him, allowing them to know more about the disease, places to go when in case of emergency, nearest drug stores, etc; and a tool that would help manage drug quantities, time intervals and stocks.There was really no differentiation in this This created an emotional bond to the user and drastically redefined it. I’ll tell the story that we have created:“Meet John (user). John is a healthy wealthy banker. He has everything that one can only dream of: cars, mansions, shitloads of money, a yacht… John has a big family (more users) and everybody loves him.Then there’s our hero (product): StoryTeller. StoryTeller is a connector. He’s caring and communicative. He always has lots of stories to tell and he’s the soul of any party. He has a great memory, allowing him to always be learning and creating new stories. Stories that he uses to bring people together.Meanwhile, John and his family receive some tragic news: John has cancer and he has only 10 months to live. Suddenly, nothing else matters. The only thing that matters is the bond between him and the ones he loves. He really wants to spend his last months of life connecting with them, reviving the good times they all had and creating an everlasting memory about all this, even when he’s gone.John’s son in law knew about StoryTeller and decided to ask him for some help. StoryTeller came and met John and started collecting stories about his life, the time he spent with the ones he love, pictures they had, things they said. StoryTeller also helped John to know where everyone was and what were they doing during the last few months.Everybody was very happy reliving the good moments together and creating new ones. And when John passed away, everybody felt he was still among them, because he had left the most precious gift of them all: memories of a good lifetime spent together”By reading the story, one can understand that the product evolved into something completely different. It was based in two core features: Revival and Thought Alarm. Revival was a This was only an exercise and this app will not be built. But it was great to see the ideation process accomplished in only 3 hours and the importance of storytelling__Gonçalo Fortes | Founder 

In the last years UX evolved rapidly through the vast adoption of Your team members will be in different time zones, speak different languages, and be part of different cultures therefore proper communication will be a huge challenge. The designer, engineer, and product manager might not be able to sit down together and quickly iterate through designs.I currently work for one of those companies that have offices across four countries and almost 1000 employees from every corner of the world. This is great as you never stop learning about other cultures but when it comes to getting stuff done quickly sometimes you feel like you’re hearding cats.We have departments dedicated to different services that we offer. We also have external vendors that offer solutions that might be too costly to develop in-house. We have business teams in one country, development in another and QA and customer support in another far away place. Usually UX has to be close to business so that they can take their requirements and build solutions based on data and research therefore I am part of the business team, trying to solve their problems.For starters, the designer also needs to understand what developers expect from him to make development smoother and quicker. Many times they are not satisfied with complex user journeys and nice task flows. Therefore the designer needs to understand the technology being used and what can and cannot be done (as always there will be technical restrictions that will affect the user experience).Well, first of all If we look at what the UX process looks like today we will see that it consists of several phases that cascade one into another and the latter are dependant on the former.First we have Then comes The The The And only in and after the production phase the UX Designer will A lot of strategy, research, analysis, wireframing and prototyping goes into designing the perfect user experience before actually starting development as we can see.The classic UX process that most large companies follow is Because in Waterfall this is done upfront, during a design phase that occurs before coding begins, and captures the design in clear specifications and user interface prototypes that have gone through usability testing.In comparison to this,Therefore being Agile requires a different UX approach, a Brad Frost’s He was saying that “we are still designing full pages” and that is still true nowadays for many companies. They are designing pages, then create a style guide based on the elements on those pages and they use that for future improvements and new components.Through my experience working on large enterprise applications But it’s not just about creating and seeing how these components look. And it’s not just about the interactions between them. By building components that are independent from one another but still talk to each other and provide services to one another, we can reuse them, modify them and disable them if a service is down for a while.And this is what user experience should focus on today.This is the reality now, A designer can create the design components as the deliverables which will provide the service implementation and oversee how these components are built and implemented by the developers in order to be reusable and flexible to technology changes.In order to better understand this we need to look what Google and Facebook are doing with As a result, each component is built as a discrete piece of code making it possible to reuse in different ways throughout the application. By changing only the way that an individual component interoperates with other components, designers and developers will save a lot of refactoring work when adding the component to another section.Therefore variants of the design would be adapted on the fly and pushed out much easier. This will save us a lot of time as we won’t need to refactor components to fit different views.First of all, If rapid iterations are not enough, the second advantage is that the components respect the reusability principle. The third and most important one is that These frameworks facilitate the creation of UI components and if we take Angular for example, it is integrated with a lot of other tools and frameworks, making it the de-facto choice for most developers. Therefore the design process needs to adapt and find a similar path forward so that development can run smoother.Component-oriented UX is new and the learning curve may be slow as it requires a deep understanding of both UX design principles as well as software development processes and patterns.Still I am a firm believer that the future of UX lies in this approach and more and more companies will start thinking forward to a connected user experience across tools and integrated services.Design Strategy  User Experience related pieces. Design Strategy and User Experience

It may be because I have just hired a designer and we are working on a serious overhaul of the I am consistently amazed at how poor many experiences are, this was highlighted in a recent trip to Dublin.On my first day in Dublin I visited 3fe Coffee in the ‘Silicon Dock’ area of Dublin to work for a couple of hours before a meeting. By the time I arrived I was ready for breakfast. When I got to the counter I looked over the menu and what was on show but unfortunately there didn’t appear to be anything for breakfast so I settled for a pastry. Although not ideal it kept me going through my first two coffees.After an hour I was surprised to see a girl sit down next to me with an amazing looking bowl of crunchy granola, luxurious yoghurt and juicy compote. Jealous doesn’t come close to describing how I felt.Granted I should have asked but here is a lesson for you- whether you are a coffee shop or have a website you must treat your customers as if they are a little stupid (in some cases downright idiotic).After having far too many coffees in far too short a time frame I really just wanted a juice of some sort with my lunch. Looking around you would assume that they didn’t sell any…none on display, no fridges, no menus. However, I had learned from my mistake at breakfast time, so, when it came round to ordering I vowed not to be silent. Lo and behold, I said the magic words and a can of organic cola magically appeared from some secret place out of view of customers.It is a shame because the coffee and food were good and the staff are excellent and yet my experience with the coffee shop had been tainted.In such a tough economic climate, particularly for retailers you have to make sure you are getting the basics right and capitalising on the low hanging fruit.Make it easier for your customers to spend money with you…as SUnlike a website that can track the analytics and numbers of abandoned trolleys left at the check out, this coffee shop couldn’t measure how much business they had missed out on, but I would guess a lot.I am sure one of their many tech neighbours would help them out with some UX/UI design consultation in return for payment in coffee and cakes.I think I’m developing a bit of a Life is made of stories.

Begin by visualizing a ball. A small, red ball.See the imperfect shape of the ball. A sphere, but with dimples and bumps along the surface to break the smooth plane. Note the way the light gleams and reflects off the edges. Turn it over a few times to see where the sunlight catches a hold and stays a second longer than expected. Feel it in your palm. Test the weight, the heft. Is it light enough to use in a magic trick? Is it heavy enough to throw across a field?Good.Now place the ball down next to the typewriter, the trampoline, and the cutlass. Does the light dapple on the typewriter the same way it does the ball? Does darkness beckon between the keys and get lost, or does it shine and illuminate an inner glow? Tap a key and hear the snap of gear on gear. Watch the rise and fall of the mechanisms, is there a cadence or discord?Excellent.Now the trampoline. Are the springs tight? Is the tension visible from where you stand or do you have to plant your palm on the surface to feel the give and return of energy? Where does the give turn into go? Can you sense the potential waiting for release?Almost there.Finally, the cutlass. Is there a scabbard or is the blade naked? Either way unsheathed is it sharp from care or worn from over use and neglect? If you were to swing it in the air would it hiss in displeasure or move silently like a figure just below the surface of the water?Outstanding. Now we’re to it.Pick up the typewriter and hurl it at the trampoline!As it bounces wait for the second it ceases to rise and hesitates to fall then hurl the red ball at it, sending keys and gears into the sky.Quickly! Grab the cutlass and strike deep into the trampoline! Shred the surface into a ragged display of leather and elastic and watch the typewriter fall into the empty space and further discharge the hidden letters inside, ribbon cascading then snarling in defeat.There you go, the information architecture of user experience.Your friendly neighborhood “oy, THIS guy.”

This January, I was in Toronto’s international airport, just hoping that I’d be able to get home. In true Canadian fashion, the temperatures had dropped low enough that, a couple of days before I left, the airport’s anti-freezing chemicals had frozen.The lines were long, and nerves were frayed. There were people in those buildings who had been stuck there for three days on end. The airport staff, so often the victims of mockery, engaged in a truly impressive campaign to put everyone on a plane. There was a certain — dare I say it — sense of joy whenever they were able to help a customer out.In an industry where you expect customer service to be shitty, that “joy” is a beautiful thing to see.Considering all of this, I didn’t mind when the woman at my air line’s counter started up a short conversation as she worked. That conversation went something like this:Let me summarize that for you: a non-techie computer user — one who is forced to deal with airline software on a daily basis — told me that it would be better if computer training courses started with a lesson in user interface comprehension. As in, there are enough people who aren’t sure about concepts like “buttons”, “sliders”, and “radio buttons”, that someone, anyone, oughtta teach a class about it.To anyone who’s been into computers for years, and to most of the younger people in developed countries, interacting with digital interfaces is second nature. We don’t think about it, we just do it.Too many of us then turn around and mock the people who are afraid of technology. “Just click ‘save’, and it will save the file! How hard is that to understand?”It’s pretty darned hard, actually, for people who are unfamiliar with even the most basic user interface elements. And we’re not just talking about old people with their first laptop, either. Sure, they’re part of it, but we can’t forget that there are lots of places on this planet where computers are more or less unheard of.But don’t kid yourself. The technology will go to those places, and when it does, we can’t assume that anyone will have even the most rudimentary knowledge of how to use computers. We can’t rely on anyone’s “intuitive understanding” of how these things work.I feel that, as UX designers, we often make a lot of assumptions about our users. Oh, we make allowances for people with poor eyesight, or those that depend on screen readers. We use micro-copy to inspire trust, and give guidance to new users. We do everything we can to eliminate things that would distract our users from achieving the goals we want them to achieve.But how often do we ask ourselves, “What about the users who aren’t entirely sure what a button is?” These people are out there, and they deserve our consideration.I’ve thought about this topic for years; but if I’m honest, I never did much about it. It took a random conversation in an airport to make me really think about the implications of the idea that there are people out there who are afraid to click on buttons because they don’t know In a case like that, most of us will find that our meticulously planned “user experience” isn’t worth much at all.How then, do we cater to these users without patronizing our more knowledgeable customers?Well, ideally, we could give everyone a “How to Interact With Computers (They totally won’t blow up!)” class to everyone who gets their first computer. Failing that, one (obviously imperfect) solution is to include an optional tutorial for any web app, and any site that includes more than its fair share of app-like functionality. Not the odd tool-tip, a proper tutorial.This may be impractical for various reasons, so I’m open to suggestions. How do we tell the computer-illiterate that it’s okay to click that button… you know, that blue rectangle with the round corners?Im a Canadian web designer and writer living in Mexico. I freelance. You can see my work at 

Who’s still popping champagne in celebration of the new year? We are at When the iPhone was just beginning to make smartphones a ubiquitous commodity in everyone’s pocket, app designers and developers focused on creating “sticky” experiences that would keep users engaged and compel them to return to the app. Today, however, we are beginning to see a shift in focus as UX designers begin to consider a much broader context of use for digital and connected devices… Yes, I am talking about the Internet of Things — wearable devices, smart homes, connected furniture, digital automobiles, etc. — and how users will engage with a particular service across these devices.Jake Zukowski, Assistant Creative Director at Frog Design, coined the term “As UX designers begin to create these “slippy” experiences for wearable devices, automobiles, and smart homes, one of our greatest challenges will be to determine what truly is just the right amount and type of information to deliver to users. Information overload is already a problem, with so many different players in the marketplace vying for a consumer’s attention. Service design will play an important part in this world, and designing for edge cases will become all the more important towards creating an incredible experience.(What? Don’t worry it took me a couple of reads too… ☺)In plain english, the principle behind material design is to create a sense of dimensionality on flat phones by pretending they are made up of paper layered behind the display. Therefore, while still largely flat in appearance, through the use of very subtle gradients, layering, and animation effects, the design is able give some real-world dimensionality to digital objects, while still achieving all the advantages of flat design — a streamlined use of screen real-estate focused on content.Given the popularity of “Flat Design” these past couple of years, and what many in the design community feel was an “oversteering” away from skeumorphism, Google’s material design seems to strike a natural balance. In the coming year, we fully expect to see more designers following Google’s lead and re-balancing flat design with subtle details that help user’s better understand the intended interaction with an object and/or their location within a system’s information hierarchy.Note: Personally, I do not feel this movement is all that revolutionary as a “design movement.” I would actually qualify what Google has done as “Principles for Quality Flat Design.” The good new is that this will do much good in the world by protecting us from bad design. ☺You know how they always say, “The devil is in the details?” Well, its True. As user’s interact with more complex and connected systems across multiple devices, it is becoming increasing clear that a user’s experience with a system is defined by the sum of all its parts . Even those small “inconsequential” details, like should a menu be activated on-hover or on-click can alter a user’s perception of an app they use daily.The importance of micro-interactions is not necessarily a novel one, and is a concept many in the enterprise software world have been aware of for sometime. (Whether they actually did anything about it or not is a different story… ) The on-click vs on-hover example noted above is something that can dramatically change the perception of efficiency and usability of an enterprise system that a user must use day in and day out to get a job done. This is only now becoming a reality in the consumer world, with the rise of a ubiquitously connected user that uses technology in some capacity every moment of every day. To refrain from burning users out (similar to “slippy UX”) experience designers must consider how a user’s interactions begin to stack-up and consider subtle and unique ways to keep users engaged and delighted. — Think Facebook “Like” button vs “write a comment”.Fierce competition in the marketplace and an increased attention and awareness of the importance of design are driving this attention to detail to new heights. Micro-interactions are as important to keeping users engaged, as it is to keeping them delighted with a product. We see micro-interactions towards increasing a user’s efficiency as a defacto standard, while micro-interactions that add delight to a system are becoming a competitive driver that fosters engagement and loyalty.CapitalOne acquires The lines between Business, Technology, and Marketing Strategy are slowly beginning to blur, and it is becoming increasingly clear that the battle ground for companies has shifted towards engagement of the user across all channels, and that puts user experience at the center. Firms are realizing that in order to succeed they must breed a culture of innovation and User Centered Design thinking within the ethos of their corporate culture. This adoption of “design thinking” across their operations is helping companies craft an overall customer experience that is tailored to their customer’s specific needs and allowing their products and services to stand out as a key marketplace differentiator.As UX continues to rise as core component of a company’s internal and external business strategy, we see firms engaging with design agencies to help them breakdown and overcome some of the internal and political barriers to success on certain projects within their pipeline. We believe this will also translate into helping these firms understand how those design thinking processes may be applied and adapted to fit within their own culture.With headlines like, “One of the biggest issues in handling Security and Privacy, is that an an over abundance of apps is creating an over abundance of “user accounts”That being said, there are more open questions than answers in Security and Privacy, but we expect 2015 to be the year in which we try to create answers to many outstanding questions, such as:All in all, 2015 is shaping up to be a great year for not just UX design, but consumers. (It is all about you!) We will be making great strides in crafting increasingly personal and tailored experiences that users will love more for stepping out of their way when they don’t want them, than trying to badger them with constant notifications. As designers, we will be pondering the question of when an app needs to be off to enhance an experience more and more.Cheers,DavidUser Experience Strategist.
Purveyor of incredible digital designs.

A few weeks ago I wrapped up my second stint as an Expert-in-Residence for General Assembly’s part-time UX Design program. It’s a big time commitment (supervising in class activities, grading homework, meeting students for open hours) but I really enjoyed mentoring students and seeing their skills and projects develop over the three months of the course. If you want to transition into UX I think it is well worth the time and money, especially if you already have training in a design discipline like graphic design, industrial design or architecture. Can the class prepare you for everything and guarantee you a job on graduation? No, but you probably learned that hard lesson after graduating from four years of high school or college.But this isn’t a sales pitch for GA’s design classes — it’s advice on how to make the most of your experience. So if you’re thinking about taking the GA UX course, already signed up or in the middle of the class right now, do yourself (and your teaching staff) a favor and…Just like college, or any other life experience for that matter, you get out of it what you put in. Two nights a week for two hours doesn’t seem that taxing but it can be pretty brutal if you’ve had a full, stressful day at work. Oh and don’t forget most of your work will be out of class working on your project so say goodbye to your other weeknights and weekends! Make sure you really have the time to make the commitment. Take the class when you won’t be traveling for work or taking vacation. If you can take the class when you’re “funemployed” or between gigs even better. I took a front-end class at GA while taking a work sabbatical and had time during the day to work on homework and outside coding tutorials which helped me tremendously with absorbing the material and producing a polished final project.The bulk of the class is working on designing an app. Everyone picks their own project and a proposal is usually expected by the second week of class if not earlier. If you don’t want to scramble and get stuck working on something you feel lukewarm about its best you know before class begins what kind of product you want to design. I’ve seen students design healthcare related apps, transportation apps, 3D printing apps, salsa dancing apps, etc. The most successful projects are very specific, niche product ideas that the student has a deep expertise or interest in. They know the space and they know who they can reach out to for interviews and user testing. Try to go beyond the obvious ideas that have already flooded the marketplace. Frankly, I’m not interested in reviewing another foodie app and probably neither is a potential employer.You should have a project idea but don’t get too enamored with a solution too soon. You must be able to define a problem before you ever hope to solve it. Through user interviews and observation get passionate and the problems your users are facing.The bulk of your effort in your project, even when you get to mock ups and prototypes, should be refining your understanding of your problem space. Frame your design solutions as hypotheses to test. The best projects I saw did not just go through iterations but painful almost 180 degree pivots. If at the end of class your product looks pretty much how you thought it would at the beginning then you probably fell in love with your initial idea and didn’t take the time to really understand the problem and work through a solution.Listen to your potential users. Listen to the feedback you get from your instructors, experts-in-residence and fellow classmates. Embrace criticism and learn to seek out feedback on what you need to change rather than collecting evidence of what you are doing well.It’s really tough to test your first prototype and see if fail. It’s bruising to present your work and hear all the things that you need to change. Being a designer is a humbling experience so be humble. It’s never easy to get feedback but it gets easier.If you are truly listening you will start to learn about things you need to change. Sometimes it can be accomplished with a small design iteration. Sometimes you will have to do a major redesign. And sometimes you will find yourself enough off course that you must fundamentally rethink your idea and start from scratch. If your research is telling you things need to change, then change them. Get comfortable with throwing away work, no matter how many hours you invested in it. This can be very scary when your final project presentation is only weeks away, but we (instructors, experts, employers) would rather see less polished work that actually solves a user problem than a prototype that is beautiful but useless.If you want a professional looking project at the end of class then you will need to get comfortable with a graphics program and a prototyping tool. If you’ve never used a program like Sketch or Adobe Illustrator you will need to devote time out of class to learn how to use the software — we have time to do simple demos but that’s about it. Just like learning any tool you must practice on your own. For beginners I recommend Sketch and InVision as they have the lowest learning curve. One of my students had been struggling to create wireframes in Sketch until she set aside an entire Saturday to do tutorials and get proficient in the tool. After that weekend she was able to work fluidly in the software and make fast progress on her app.There is a lot to do in a short amount of time — it’s easy to get behind. Keep up with project milestones and homework. Don’t think you can wait for some magical weekend to get all your backlogged work done — the students who tried this technique often end up dropping the class or not finishing their midterm and final presentations. Let go of your perfectionist tendencies and turn in work even if it is not at the level you want it to be. You can always polish things at the end or after class.At the end of the General Assembly class you should have a kick-ass project that you can put in your portfolio. If you have been keeping up with project milestones you should have plenty of artifacts to show off your design process. Take the time to pull all the work you did together into a compelling story. Treat your final class presentation as a dry run of how you would present the project at a job interview. Get a squarespace account and document your project on a portfolio site. Write an article about your project and process on Medium. You might be telling the story of this project a dozen of times at job interviews so you will want to know it inside and out and have great, professional looking visual artifacts to impress potential employers.So there they are, eight things you can do to make the most out of the General Assembly UX design course. If you’re interested in transitioning into UX definitely reach out to GA and learn more — they can give you all the information and even hook you up with alumni so you can understand if the class (and UX as a career path) is right for you. If you are already a UX designer, consider being an Expert-in-Residence or instructor. It’s reinvigorating to work with students who are just getting their feet wet with UX. I had left a job and wasn’t really sure if I was on the right career path. Being around students made me realize how far I had come in the last six years honing my own skills. It helped to reconnect me to my passion for the practice and look forward to what I want to learn and do as a designer in the years to come.Freelance UX Designer. Formerly at Mozilla, Autodesk, Yahoo and 

About a month ago, I was at a Wendy’s while on vacation in Wisconsin. Work could not be further from my mind, as all my attention was on the tower of beef-n-cheese melty goodness that I had just sat down to eat. I was all-consumed in my beefy effort when, planning and debating on the next bite, when, to my great distress, I noticed a little drama going on in the corner of my eye. A little old lady was trying to get a coke.No, questioning internet reader, she was just getting a coke. But the drama stemmed from I haven’t put much thought to their design up until that point. I’ve seen them springing up more and more often, but never paid all that much attention. They look sleek, modern, give me the option to put cherry in my whatever, and seem to be a pretty big accomplishment for the soda industry as a whole. PROGRESS!As I started to think about my experiences getting a beverage from the Freestyle in the past, and I realized that when I’d used one myself, it had been a bit frustrating and slow. Do the abundance of options give me pause? Perhaps that’s the explanation. But I think the real issue here is that this particular breed of machine is an effort to reinvent the mechanism many machines use, the lever.The lever is a simple machine. Everyone who’s been thrown off a see-saw pretty much has a PHD is Howtousealeveromics. Ergo, we know how to use a conventional soda machine. As a result, this is the user flow that results:It’s simple. You can have a conversation while doing this. You may even be able to chew gum at the same time. When you’re in a rush, you can grab your sporks and assorted pre-packed condiments in one hand and fill up your 64-oz, bladder buster in the other.Now, with Coke’s new-fangled machine, this is your user flow:Am I being over dramatic? Yes. Of course. I’m trying to prove a point here. All of the above user flow steps have happened to me. And I design interfaces. I know touch screens, I know touch events, I immerse my self in digital interactions all day, but I still manage to screw this system up about half the time.Now, back to the case of the dramatic little old lady. What experience does she have with touch screens? Does she even know how to use them? Does she think that the screen is just a tv with a coke advertisement on it? What required learned behavior might she be missing for the interaction to make sense? Does she even want to use the machine? Would she be intimidated by it? Can she even read the font size?What required learned behavior might she be missing for the interaction to make sense?With technology that I don’t understand, I’m often worried about screwing something up, and I’ve been around computers my whole life. What is this lady going through?She walked up to the machine, stared at it for a painfully long time (which is why I started to notice her), and then began to interact.Notice the plural there. She literally started poking the machine using the same posture as a nose tackle uses with the ground at the line of scrimmage. What’s the problem, you ask? Knuckles are offset from each other. If you tap with great enough effort, after knuckle #1 touches the screen, the force of the hand makes good old knuckle #2 the screen as well, which results in 2 nearly simultaneous touch events.She would touch the screen, and then immediately touch the icon that appeared in the sub-menu.Dasani- Dasani with lemon…..……. Back.Dasani- Dasani with lemon………… Back.Dasani- Dasani with lemon………… Back.What’s the obvious solution to this problem? Is there one?Well, hypothetical reader in my head, your answer would solve her problem, but it wouldn’t solve the big problem.Fine. My point is that she was not using the interface incorrectly, the interface was designed incorrectly. She knew what she wanted, she knew where to go to get it, she knew she had to tap on the screen. Any interface that doesn’t anticipate I don’t know the design thinking that goes on at Coca-Cola. I’m not trying to say that the team behind that interface is sub-par, or naive. I’m sure that they are avery knowledgable group. But this specific example of a poor user to machine interaction taught me two reasons why UX design processes are so important.First, I learned the importance of user research. It should have revealed that little old ladies don’t know how to use this interface. It should have anticipated that the demographic that drinks soda might not know what is going on. It should have been tested in every way possible to try to make the user less confused as to what part of soda-pouring process they are in. The design should have played off of known conventions to make sure that even if users aren’t sure how to use a touch screen, they’d know how to use this one. Apple did it with skeuomorphism in the early iPhones, Coke should have done something similar.Secondly, and maybe more importantly, I learned that UX design plays a huge role in not only determining the best solution to a single problem, but also in determining what the real underlying problem is. Only then, can you come up with a solution. What research told Coke that people wanted touchscreens for soda? I don’t know. Why was that the solution they came upon? Why try to re-invent the lever? Why throw away decades of learned behavior? Why slow down user’s ability to consume their product? Was the solution thought of before the problem was well-defined? I learned that it’s always important to question a solution until I know it is THE solution.I have the benefit of not understanding the ins and outs of why Coke does what Coke does. I’m sure there are a ton of bureaucratic hoops to jump through with every decision they make. I’m sure they see a great value from the Freestyle machine, and that some people’s interactions are less fraught with error as mine.I’m also sure that a little old lady in Wisconsin got Dasani with lemon, and she has no idea why.I design things.

(Who means you)Hint: “Who” is a team sport.—-—-—-—-—-experience architecture = ux + ixd + ia + content strategy #becauseawesome how, when, where, why, who

To be honest, most of these drive me nuts with their listacle article format “The 42 things your should never, ever do in UX or you will die”. Lots of duplication, but they do at least follow current trends and patterns.Follow these guidelines to make your app submission easier. Know the rules you are breaking and why you are breaking them.Don’t reinvent the wheel. Use UI patterns to discover how others solved similar design problems. Make yours better.and a Get your design in front of people, test and socialize your amazing new app. From micro-interactions to fully built native prototypes, these tools allow you to see your design in higher fidelity.Here’s a Visual design is fashion. Trends change and what was once super cool is now an high-low shag carpet. Skeumorphic design  flat design  flat design with long shadows  motion(flat 2.0), etc. it never ends so might as well own it. You can also learn visual design basics from the In particular, Google’s material design system. Helping put some structure and consistency in the wild world of Android app designs (and web). Lots of good, some “meh”.Idea Generator  Creative Director of Not That, This.User Experience  Product Design Group

UI, UX, Usability, Interaction are work closely but work differently. UI is a graphical part. But Lets take a example to understand better.Suppose I’m walking on road and I saw a Ferrari coming, I look at it and say ‘wow’.Now what this wow for?Now in other case I’m driving Ferrari car.If you remember old cars, driver has to crawl towards other hand door to lock it.Now we will see how each designer work closely to solve this problem.When you ask UX designer for solution on this problem. UX guy suggest ‘put a button somewhere so that when driver will press it, other hands door will be lock.’ So, driver will no longer has to crawl for locking the door.But where to put that button exactly so that user will easily press it? Now this is Usability. Adjustment for driver/users comfort-ability. when you will ask Usability guy for put that button in car, He will (may)suggest to put that button on steering, below drivers right hand thumb. So, when user is driving a Car, he can easily press that button without taking hands from steering.Now the button will be on steering. But how does user/driver interact with button? Is it toggle switch? Or is it same button for lock and unlock (may be iconic or using LED’s)? In east words Interaction is Take a look over below buttons.When you ask Interaction designer for solution, he will think in such a way that less area of steering will be occupied, user/driver will not press that button by mistake while driving. In this way Interaction designer will define the type of the interaction.Now UI Designer will design that button and shape accordingly and (may)put intuitive icon on button so that driver can easily understand the button is for locking the doors.So In short,Having studied a degree in Computer Science, I work now as a UI/UX Designer and runs personal blog. I’m also a photographer by hobby.

I freely admit I’m not as smart as I got this awesome email from the commercial art site Artsy this a.m.The problem with Joel’s message (other than it requested free, for no fricking reason, clickbait) is that the article wasn’t about Frans Hals, the “junior” Dutch Master as compared to Rembrandt. Joel hadn’t even bothered to notice the article featured zero Frans Hals paintings, but instead included art by Judith Leyster, a woman whose paintings were purposely sold as by Frans Hals — and were better than his!After seeing Tim Burton’s film about the life of Margaret Keane, Yes: there are many women whose art has been marketed and sold “as by” a male painter. There are other highly-lauded female artists whose names are nearly forgotten to history.Here is Judith Leyster, a Dutch Master (“Mistress”). Her paintings were sold to the public as by Frans Hals, the “lively” Dutch Master. She painted work “after the manner” of Hals.Judith looks like someone I’d love to know.Oh yeah, like this is by Frans Hals. It’s a completely different (better, in my opinion) hand and eye. Most notably, it uses negative space, and I think this is a woman’s eye. This is an amazing picture.It really is by Judith Leyster. Much of her work was credited to Frans Hals and other Dutch Masters — some dealers even went so far as to obscure her signature logo that was a play on her name and put the other artist’s name over it, as Frank Keane did to Margaret Keane’s “big eyes” paintings.Despite this, Judith had a pretty good life all-told. She married twice, and apparently her second marriage, to another painter, was happy. She died in 1660 at age 50 in Haarlem in the Netherlands.This beautiful painting is by Marie-Denise Villers. It was originally shown and attributed to Jacques-Louis David, with whom she studied. The painting is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.It is thought now to be not only a painting by Marie-Denise Villers, It’s simple to see the similarities in style between this painting and David’s work, isn’t it?David also painted the famous picture of Marat in his suicide bath, “one of the most famous images of the French Revolution.”So, only 213 years later, do people look at Marie’s painting, and see what it really said and says. There are millions of words now-written about the “male gaze”.This is the female gaze (detail, I like it better than Here is another painting by Marie-Denise,But there are some women who achieved success as themselves — even if women with a background in art and BA’s in studio art never heard of them before.Before there was “And their court painter, Sofonisba Anguissola, whose long, notable career included informal studying with Michaelangelo and hundreds of accomplished paintings that smoke the pants off her contemporaries. Sofonisba lived to be 93 years old, and achieved extraordinary recognition and success during her lifetime.According to an early art historian, “Anguissola has shown greater application and better grace than any other woman of our age in her endeavors at drawing; she has thus succeeded not only in drawing, coloring and painting from nature, and copying excellently from others, but by herself has created rare and very beautiful paintings.”This most-fortunate of women received the following epitaph from her second husband, wealthy sea merchant Orazio Lomellini, “To Sofonisba, my wife, who is recorded among the illustrious women of the world, outstanding in portraying the images of man. Orazio Lomellino, in sorrow for the loss of his great love, in 1632, dedicated this little tribute to such a great woman.”And born in 1855 in Philadelphia, a self-described “new woman,” Cecilia Beaux, painted and lived similarly to her contemporary, John Singer Sargent.If you’re as familiar with Sargent’s painting as I am, you’d recognize that this portrait of Henry Sturgis Drinker (Beaux’s brother-in-law) gives him a run for his money — it’s very similar to the other informal portraits Sargent made of well-known men.Cecilia Beaux is not as well-known today as some of her contemporaries in every major art collection such as Mary Cassatt. But Sargent also experienced denigration as a portrait painter of high skill during a time when gallery artists were going increasingly non-representational.During her life (she lived to be 83 years old), she was well-recognized, received major commissions (though perhaps, not so “major” as Teddy Roosevelt’s White House portrait) and William Merritt Chase, who founded the school that is now known as Parsons School of Art and Design, said, “Miss Beaux is not only the greatest living woman painter, but the best that has ever lived. Miss Beaux has done away entirely with sex [gender] in art.”This is her 1894 self-portrait.According to her biography, “she thought it best not to marry,” and in this, is similar to other notable female creators during the same period, including Mary Cassatt and Julia Morgan (architect of Hearst Castle). They did call themselves “new women” and chose to pursue their vocations over family life.There are some female performance artists featured in I’m so sorry I was unable to give you Elon Musk’s top design hacks. You should go see Tim Burton’s movies for his UX tips. If you want to get inspired to drink less beer you should read Wil Wheaton.Writer, artist, college teacher, mom of Meredith and Gambit.

In the last article we learned I have created this solution in As you can imagine, search results are playing an important role in the search experience. The challenge is to help users find the specific information they are looking for. Here is very important that you As general steps you can follow this order:Try to think about a site where there are huge amounts of informations (i.e. Google AdWords, eBay, AirBnB), it would be overwhelming without a very linear and organised search experience.So let’s look at some approaches to filtering down content, in terms of interaction and User Interface architecture.Filters were born as content situated on sidebars. On the left or on the right. This old-style approach is good for when the intention of the users is to explore and select what they want or what they don’t want to see in the results.It’s also a common practice to provide further filtering options on the top of the result pages.Many sites take a more experiential approach to filtering that can be used in the main content, with an immersive experience of filtering. This can feel very personal and helpful to find the right solution, increasing the experience service quotient for the user.The new UX trend of designing a full screen search filtering is becoming quite popular and it is an attractive approach. Of course if the intent is for users to continue with the exploration and the navigation between pages to find many solutions, this may not be the right way to go.Following the I have studied the I tried to understand their huge purpose and write down all the graphical improvements to use. I also interviewed four people, not experts but users of AdWords, and asked them a simple list of three things to improve and which problems they found.The result was very similar among the respondents, both of them have complained of problems regarding the usability of the system:Here some images:A feedback from Jakob Nielsen about drop-downs testing with a large number of options, such as state and country lists:The worth of AdWords is based on showing to the users how detailed is the audience for an advert. So “advanced filters” is an important part of the product purpose and we don’t need to use sidebars. We can develop the best user experience using the main content area of the page for the filters.With a lean top-menu will be easy to focus the reader’s attention on the main content of the page. So I created four main areas:The easiest way to get rid of the hundreds of options and the issues related to scrolling is to simply replace the drop-down selections with a text search field and letting the user type what they like.Now for something even more challenging. While some users know exactly what they’re looking for, others will want the ability to explore the data in the system.Wouldn’t it be nice if they could lead the expedition themselves?A good idea might be to display a Give the user control over their viewing options and provide the ability to see the results in So if you can let users do it in few steps, Why provide a filter button if you can not have it?It can It can also helps to promote In this case you have to consider the technology to use, because filtering the data I also created the entire design using a modern design and colours, with notifications popup to improve the interaction, I have created this mockup You can download the Free Bonus Pack on UX Designer. Mobile Specialist. Computer Engineer.

We’ve all overheard conversations, walking down hip streets of the world’s tech capitals, discussions about the great ‘UX’ of a product, or the poor ‘UI’ of a website.Well, ok probably yes to the latter, but a determinate NO to the rest. Read on to learn what these terms mean, which jobs are better paid, and how to become a UX Design refers to the term There is an analogy I like to use in describing the different parts of a (digital) product:If you imagine a product as the human body, the bones represent the code which give it structure. The organs represent the UX design: measuring and optimizing against input for supporting life functions. And UI design represents the cosmetics of the body–its presentation, its senses and reactions.As Rahul Varshney, Co-creator of Below I break down the history, debate and definition around each term in detail. But if you don’t care for them jump to the end of each section for a simplified description. And make sure you don’t miss the professional stats below it.User experience design (UXD or UED) is the process of enhancing customer satisfaction and loyalty by improving the usability, ease of use, and pleasure provided in the interaction between the customer and the product.Well you might note immediately that despite what I implied in the introduction, the definition has no reference to tech, no mention of digital, and is vague at best. But like all professions, it’s impossible to distill the process from just a few words.Some confusion in the definition of the term itself is due to its youth. Don Norman, a cognitive scientist and co-founder of the Nielsen Norman Group Design Consultancy, is credited with inventing the term in the late 1990’s declaring that “User experience” encompasses all aspects of the end-user’s interaction with the company, its services, and its products.”This implies that regardless of its medium, However! Despite being a scientific term, its use since inception has been almost entirely within digital fields; one arguable reason for this being that the industry started blowing up around the time of the term’s invention. Another arguable reason being that it was just a fancy way of rewording a practice that has already existed for hundreds of years known as “Market Research”; and boy do designer’s love fancy.Though it does utilize many of the same techniques to achieve a complex end goal: The structure, analysis and optimization of a customer’s experience with a company and its products.If you’ve never seen User Experience work in practice, never even used the term at work, it’s still difficult to imagine what User Experience Designers actually do. At Here is a cliff notes example of a UX Designer’s responsibilities as laid out by our course. It is targeted at development of digital products, but the theory and process can be applied to anything:Competitor AnalysisWireframingCoordination with UI Designer(s)You see that iteration of the product, as connected to analysis or testing is indeed mentioned twice, but in reality you would put it in between every other item on the list. Ultimately the aim is to connect business goals to user’s needs through a process of testing and refinement to that which satisfies both sides of the relationship.For the full post, and the “Layman’s Guide to UI Design” part of this article (that you may have noticed was missing!), please Master the most in-demand digital skills, by pairing with a mentor  an exciting startup/project. Makes learning feel more like a party,  less like a lecture.

One of the main things I realized when I started working with interaction design was the power of a good visual presentation . How I spent years designing interfaces, it is really very difficult to set aside the visual look. This is a major feature of those who make this transition .This aesthetic look ends up being taken to whatever UX deliverable, and the famous A visually pleasing presentation generates credibility for the work being presented. Moreover, it is undisputed that it provides a much more pleasant reading content. And the impact it has over the stakeholders are visible.Imagine that your client spends the day looking at reports , PowerPoint and Excel‘s tables, so when hes faced with a good looking presentation, he will undoubtedly pay more attention to it.I‘ve seen presentations of reports, personas, user journeys, user flows, and other deliverables created by interaction designers which were terribly difficult to understand. From the use of many different types, colors that do not harmonize with each other to misaligned graphics elements, all of this makes the person whos reading it takes twice as long to understand the documentation.I agree. I’m not saying you should spent eight hours of your day just to create beautiful presentations. But it is important to have Here are some very good examples of visually well done presentations:You know that present under Christmas tree with an ugly packaging that no one wants it to be yours?A good presentation can change the course of a business meeting. When a client is faced with a well-designed and attractive presentation, he starts a process of unconscious acceptance of what will came later.This does not mean that your project will be approved immediately. But a good presentation can soften and prepare the client to be more conducive to accept what comes ahead.Another fact is the commitment. Well done presentations can be an advantage for you as a professional. Call it what you want, but I am puzzled to see professionals who design interfaces for the best UX possible, developing unsightly and unpleasant presentations.In a medium where inevitably everyone knows everyone ‘s work , showing that you care about how your work is perceived, counts a lot.Each presentation will depend on your skills. A good solution for the massive using of PowerPoint is InVision.Besides being able to generate navigable prototypes, you can do some tricks and create amazing presentations, not having to minimize the screen to open an .jpeg file with your deliverable on it.Our work is to develop the best experiences to people. Design products to better serve them. We can not stop looking at our own home and try to clean up our own mess a bit. By Andrea Pacheco, UX/UI Hybrid Designer

Com base em sua experiência como consultora e UX Designer, Seguindo os conselhos dela, o seu time poderá criar ótimas experiências para seus produtos. Quer saber como? Confira a lista abaixo, livremente traduzida e adaptada.Parabéns, você decidiu trabalhar com um time de UX para ajudar a lançar ou melhorar seu produto! Fazer do UX uma prioridade foi uma ótima decisão, mas não dá para parar por aí.Não permita que o dia-a-dia na sua empresa te desvie da atenção que o projeto de UX requer. Eu entendo: você está ocupado, com a caixa de emails lotada e simplesmente não tem tempo. Mas você precisa arranjar esse tempo.Sua habilidade de estar focado, presente e envolvido ativamente no processo de UX é determinante para o sucesso do seu projeto. Você pode contratar os melhores profissionais do planeta, mas se não os ajudar a entender as prioridades e objetivos da sua empresa, a solução não atingirá o que é realmente importante para o seu negócio.Envolver um monte de gente no projeto de UX é uma prática muito comum. Às vezes, os A primeira etapa de um projeto é quando os UX designers estão em busca de informações. Nesse momento, eles tentam extrair o máximo de conhecimento possível e só depois disso ficam prontos para desenvolver estratégias e encontrar soluções. Por isso, pode fazer sentido ter mais pessoas envolvidas nessa parte do trabalho.No entanto, após essa fase de descobrimento, é possível limitar o número de pessoas do time responsáveis pelos feedbacks e que estarão diretamente focadas no projeto. Afinal, quando muitas pessoas estão envolvidas, é mais fácil se submeter a opiniões e palpites de terceiros e mais difícil falar o que realmente pensa por medo do julgamento de outros membros do grupo.Reunir as pessoas certas no momento certo vai te ajudar a manter o fluxo do projeto e assegurar que você forneça as melhores informações para o seu time de UX.Não são raras reuniões em que o fundador ou outro representante da empresa gaste, pelo menos, 15 minutos para falar sobre a urgência do projeto e a importância de um trabalho ágil e focado.Digamos que você começou bem. O time ou profissional de UX trabalhou realmente rápido para desenvolver os conceitos e traduzi-los em Essa é uma das coisas mais frustrantes que podem acontecer em um projeto de UX. Especialmente porque você sabe que, quando finalmente receber o Portanto, ao trabalhar com um time ou profissional de UX, tente se esforçar para dar um retorno o mais rápido possível. Essa atitude contribui para a fluidez do projeto, que afeta não somente o cronograma de trabalho, mas também a qualidade da solução que você está criando junto ao time.Não escolha uma data de lançamento antes de consultar o seu time de UX. Engana-se quem acredita que situações como essa ocorrem só de vez em quando.Se isso acontecer, é provável que a empresa mantenha o Por quê? Ora, porque Diretores não começam a cortar cenas só porque estão com falta de tempo. Se assim o fizessem, é provável que o filme perderia completamente o sentido. Da mesma maneira, quando você elimina A colaboração dos desenvolvedores pode somar um valor imenso ao produto. Ao trabalhar um projeto, é importante apresentá-los ao profissional de UX o mais rápido possível. Existem alguns motivos para isso.Primeiro, ter uma conversa prévia com os desenvolvedores ajuda a entender o que é possível tecnicamente em termos de estrutura de dados, tecnologias e prazos. Segundo, você nunca sabe que ótimas ideias os desenvolvedores podem trazer.O que importa não é a clareza dos dados, mas a qualidade das ideias que você pode extrair deles.Se você possui um produto no mercado e não tem nenhuma maneira de medir métricas, pare o que está fazendo agora mesmo e exija que alguém instale o Google Analytics pra você.Se você está trabalhando em um produto com um time ou profissional de UX, tente passar bem longe desses erros e voe muito mais altos! ☺Desenvolvemos aplicativos web e mobile. Conversamos sobre aplicativos bacanas, novidades no mundo da tecnologia e ux. 

Parece um processo automático.Você vê que todo mundo está mudando o nome do cargo de Arquiteto de Informação para Algumas pessoas fazem isso para acompanhar a curva do mercado e não ficar para trás. Outras simplesmente porque esse é o cargo que lhes foi oferecido, então nada mais justo do que alterar a nomenclatura no perfil do Linkedin e na assinatura de email de uma vez só. O nome em inglês é “cool”, não dá pra negar.Só que se você faz o desenho da experiência do usuário, então quer dizer que você desenha Você precisa saber o que esse usuário quer, o que ele precisa, o que ele pensa sobre o seu produto.Mas eu já trabalhei tempo demais em agências de publicidade para saber o quanto os trabalhos de design são realmente centrados no usuário ou não. Por experiência própria, sei que a porcentagem de projetos que realmente envolvem usuários (ou alguma quantidade mínima de pesquisa e teste) não passa dos 20%.E eu tive sorte de trabalhar em agências de grande porte, para marcas famosas, cujos projetos possuíam budget relativamente alto se comparado com o restante do mercado. O que pode ser bom ou ruim. Realmente não sei.Mas então por que as pessoas mudam o nome de Arquiteto de Informação ou de Designer de Interação para UX Designer?Mais algum?A pergunta-chave desse post é: Quantos projetos você participa que envolvem pesquisas quantitativas, entrevistas em profundidade, focus groups, estudos etnográficos, enquetes, ou outros métodos de pesquisa? E quantos deles são apenas design e documentação de interfaces, através de sitemaps e wireframes?Se olhando para o seu portfolio a equação acima não pende para o primeiro lado e ainda assim você diz que faz Eu não vou nem entrar na discussão de que “experiências não podem ser desenhadas, porque são subjetivas”. Isso é Mas voltando à discussão inicial: se existe um mercado inteiro de agências de publicidade brasileiras que possuem times inteiros de UX Design, às vezes com cinco, dez, vinte profissionais, e o usuário não é consultado na grande maioria dos projetos — então algo está bem errado. Eu me refiro às agências de publicidade porque vejo que as marcas são responsáveis pelo financiamento de uma boa fatia dos projetos brasileiros de design que são colocados na rua. Mas eu também conheço gente que trabalha em startups, em estúdios especializados em design, ou mesmo gente que se nomeia um híbrido de UI/UX Designer, que vergonhosamente nunca descolou a cara da frente do pacote Adobe para ir para a rua conversar com usuários.Pode parecer somente uma discussão semântica, mas o buraco é mais embaixo.Porque os PPTs que são apresentados para os clientes falam muito sobre “desenhar experiências que sejam relevantes para as pessoas”, os slides nas conferências falam muito sobre “entender as necessidades do usuário” e os perfis no Linkedin falam muito sobre “Fulano acredita muito em melhorar a vida das pessoas”.Mas o que eu ouço de depoimentos de amigos é que os UX Designers desses times se envolvem muito pouco com o consumidor e com o cliente. Entregam job e depois não vêem mais. Se contratam uma empresa de testes de Então a gente está querendo enganar a quem exatamente?Nossos chefes?Nossos futuros contratantes?Nós mesmos?Eu conheço gente que preferiu desistir dos modelos já existentes nesse mercado e criar sua própria empresa, para pelo menos tentar estabelecer um processo de design que fosse realmente user-centered. E essas pessoas têm minha completa admiração.Também conheço gente que foi trabalhar como freelancer, fazendo consultoria de UX e escapando desse modelo pré-estabelecido que ignora quase que completamente as pessoas que vão usar o produto. Nesse caso, o que ouço é que essa equação melhora um pouco e que as empresas que contratam esse tipo de consultoria estão realmente interessadas em ouvir o consumidor final. Ainda assim, muitos dos pedidos de freelas que chegam até elas acabam indo direto para a tríade sitemap-wireframe-protótipo. E esse protótipo nunca chega na frente de um usuário real do produto, mas somente na frente dos stakeholders que estão pagando a conta no final.Será que o nome “arquiteto de informação” ou “designer de interação” não faz mais sentido com a realidade que você enfrenta das 9 às 6?Esse post é um desabafo, mas é ao mesmo tempo um projeto pessoal. Já falei por aqui como estou Mas ficar no meio do caminho e achar que está tudo bem, já não faz muito sentido agora.Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Are you frustrated that you’ve been at the same level in your User Experience Design (UX) career for a while? Sick of permanently wire framing or designing icons, fancy a new challenge? Here are some pragmatic ways in which you can begin to see a way forward in your User Experience career.If you are considering changing jobs it might be time to UXswitch is about putting the Experience in to finding a UX job. Your wish list is matched with only the best UX recruiters  employers. For UXers, by UXers

Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

Fortune 500 companies have huge opportunities for solid UX designers. Many of these enterprises struggle with their software and processes that power the company. Most of them understand the need for a good UX, even for internal use. The main reasons are increasing sales, saving money, improve NPS or simply make employees, partners or customers happier.Good UX is a part of brand. It’s a marketing tool. As the generation D is in power, businesses are tested all around the globe. They face the love and hate on social media and most importantly — face to face marketing. In my opinion, these days are ideal for clever and open minded UX designers. Why?Designing for enterprise means simplifying complex processes and automating what you can. There are many examples, where a task automation saved companies millions of dollars every year. As a enterprise software designer, processes and applications you design are used by thousands or tens of thousands of people, eight hours a day. It’s much greater responsibility than designing “just another cool app”. If you design your solution well, the impact is tremendous. Managers have more time to care about employees, who are already happier by using reliable tools that help them be effective in their job. The more you automate, the more people can be used in actual decisioning, where a human brain is required. You can free them from manual work that robots can do. You make their job truly better.I know many designers who consider this to be painful. In many cases, it’s just because designers letting their ego talk. If you start listening before speaking, you realise people who have strong opinions are usually the people who know the most about the business. You will learn how to work with their needs and opinions. Your goal should be to build relationships with them. There are also multiple methods you can use to avoid strong opinions affecting the end result. In the end of the day, we don’t design it for ourselves.My advice would be to read a lot of books about psychology and selling. You are building a bridge between customers and business. Get to the bottom line of the problem and keep listening what stakeholders telling you. Once you extract true requirements and needs you should be able to satisfy most of your stakeholders.Designing enterprise apps comes with a great responsibility for the end result. Accept the fact that nothing has to be perfect and you will do a better job. Designing will be faster and and more accurate due to quick iterations. Your main goal should be to There is no such a thing as a designer who doesnt make mistakes. Do mistakes early enough so they can be fixed. Don’t wait until it’s too late. Spend long enough but not too long on your prototypes. You will find the balance yourself — every project is different. Test early, test the right audience and store results so they are accessible to all stakeholders. It’s essential for a designer in this category to listen, test and iterate. People expect you to give them a good advice. Educate yourself about the company, products and wide context. Your job will be to become a business expert as well as customer expert. Ask questions and don’t hesitate to ask again. If you are lucky enough, there will be business architects and research team. If not, find responsible people who will be able to answer your questions. Be kind, helpful and respectful. You are a part of the team.Passionate about enhancing people’s lives. #ux #product #design 

As part of my attempt to deepen my understanding on the experiences ThoughtWorks wants to provide to its clients, the last couple of months I faced the gamut of traits underlying the single word that differentiates a developer from a It was supposed to be just a word. Just ten letters. However, when put into practice, this word acquired multiple meanings. But it can become more complex than that. At ThoughtWorks, we are not just developers. Many of us are developers, and at the same time QAs. And at the same time BAs. And UXers. And IMs (Iteration Managers). And even PMs. That’s just how it works.As developer consultants, we want to deliver a well-designed, fully working piece of code. As QA consultants we want this piece of code to be excellent in quality. As BA consultants we want the code to meet the client’s expectations and priorities. As UX consultants, we want to make sure users’ needs are being met, and improve the way people use that piece of code. As IM consultants we want the client’s continuous feedback on how the code works so that we can improve it in a more orderly fashion. As PM consultants we want to make sure everybody is happy and working in order to make the code deliver something the client will love and also reach their business objectives.But how about this word, ‘consultant’, that’s all over the place? As a consultant, what do I want? To answer that question I had to think a little bit more about what ThoughtWorks’ proposition of value is. And I found out that ThoughtWorks does much more than deliver software. Although delivery is an important part of our core business, we want to go further. We want to change the way software is done. We want to drive technology innovation to the world. We don’t want our clients to just receive the code we produce for them, we want them to join us in this mission of revolutionizing IT.And for that, dear reader, we need consultants.Consultants have other valuable characteristics, which are not related to their official “job title”. As I’ve said before, there are many other words overshadowed by it. After some research I came up with seven words that, for us, describe the essential capabilities a consultant needs to develop.It might be that you already are a consultant. If so, this article is intended to challenge you to think about the importance of what you do. By having the right attitude and training, will empower you to be an agent of change for the people around you and the business you are operating in.If you are not a consultant, well, I would ask you to keep an open mind. Consider that wherever you work, opportunities for being influential and avant-gardist can be found all the time. I hope these reflections will give you some ideas on what to do next. I am pretty sure the world will be more and more in need of all kinds of professionals that are, also, consultants.I write code and create worlds.A teacher affects eternity — Henry Adams

1.- La estructura del sistema no debe definir la interfaz, y viceversa.2.- La necesidad a solventar pesa más que la tecnología que usas.3.- No empieces un proyecto a menos que esté 100% bien definido.4.- Categoriza lo mejor posible a los usuarios de producto5.- Piensa en “flujos” y no en “features”.6.- Crea prototipos rápidos. Deséchalos con la misma rapidez.7.- Haz que el siguiente paso sea siempre obvio.8.- Simplifica todo.9.- Piensa en la memoria del usuario como un “musculo”10.- Itera y RefinaMelómano, Especialista en operaciones cinéticas de bajo impacto

Thanks for putting this out there — Digital Product Design needs as much visibility as UX and Javascript are getting these days. Let’s spread the word about Product Design.Thoughts, stories and ideas from a Digital Product Designer.

Last year our team raised money from angel investors and created We did it because, quite frankly, we’re sick of seeing people more interested in their smartphones than real life. Digital communication is great! We love it. But, we believe many people are beginning to live an unbalanced social life, spending too much time online.Our small team is located in Lisbon and apps are liveA dedicated UX/UI Designer to come on board and take Your day to day activities will include creating engaging user experiences starting from problem definition to final mockups and design assets.You will brainstorm, sketch concepts, design flows, layout wireframes, design interactive elements, document designs, and support development activities.Yes, we expect you to possess that rare blend of interaction, visual, product and prototyping skills.The work that you will design will be seen and experienced by hundreds of thousands people every month around the world.product guy and co-founder of Fast and real-life approach to online dating — getpure.org

A UX affordance is a visual cue or perceived property for the function of an object within an interface. For example, a button in a user interface affords an action. That action can filter, sort, add, et al. (exception is for disabled buttons).Apple recently published it’s iOS7 HIG (Human Interface Guidelines). Within the document Apple says to ‘embrace borderless buttons’. It’s also suggested that the ‘Back’ button should be presented as the previous screen title. These are two concepts I’m not completely sold on yet.These guidelines create little to no difference between a link and a button in iOS7. Current design patterns indicate links as elements that navigate to a particular application view or browser window. Then we particularly think of buttons as elements that delegate a specific action such as adding a contact, or filtering a view. By blending both concepts Apple deviates from the standard design patterns. Without borders on buttons the interface is also harder to scan because of the lack of visual distinction between elements. As designers we can create more of a clear visual distinction on the different button states (normal, active, disabled) instead of just relying on color.Changing the ‘Back’ button to a previous screen title also changes conventions. Currently the ‘Back’ button serves as navigation (Back  Next). Implementing the previous screen title turns the navigation into breadcrumbs. Although the logic of creating this pattern seems logical, I believe it’s not a value add. A user that is 3 views into an app is still not clearly shown that he/she needs to press the navigation 3 times to return to the home screen. If anything, long to short screen titles can inhibit the user experience by the constantly resetting the user’s eyes to recognize the title change, width of title, and then to cognitively think of their location within the app. It’s a small detail that creates unnecessary cognitive cycles.Like all interfaces we’ll adjust to the new conventions. I love change, new design patterns and intuitive experiences but some of the new HIG puts constraints on the designer and ultimately the end user.Let me hear your thoughts, opinions - Follow me Product Designer at Pivotal Labs

(Мы продолжаем переводить ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя: Многие дизайнеры верят, что лучше тот дизайн, который везде выглядит одинаково. Это не так. Постоянство тоже может быть гибким. Так что сегодня наша тема:И, в общем-то, это хорошо.Всякий раз, заходя на сайт или в приложение, я предполагаю, что форма входа такая же, как и была в прошлый раз. Это помогает мне найти меню, перейти к разделам, которые мне нравятся, и быстро пропустить эту чертову рекламу.В контексте брендов, это также способствует узнаваемости компании, повышению доверия к ней, а также моей уверенности, что я нахожусь в правильном месте.Наш мозг — как компьютер, распознающий шаблоны (или паттерны). Он устроен так, чтобы запоминать нашу первую попытку, а затем, при повторении действия, улучшать созданный шаблон.Именно поэтому меню должно быть в одном и том же месте на всех страницах, а предупреждения и уведомления должны обозначаться одними и теми же цветами. И именно поэтому в следующий раз вы не войдете в комнату к родителям, когда на дверной ручке висит носок.Постоянство создает ожидания. Когда пользователи ожидают чего-то, и вы им это даете — это хорошее юзабилити.Если я дам вам пощечину, то в следующий раз, когда я подниму руку, вы увернетесь. Вы уже ожидаете, что я снова психану.Если вы хотите такого эффекта, можете проектировать страницу соответствующим образом. Но, зачастую, это — Ваше приложение или сайт не должны всегда выглядеть абсолютно одинаково. Иногда вы кликаете мышью, а иногда тыкаете пальцем в сенсорный экран, и эти различия самиЛэндинг, домашняя страница, страница покупки — перед ними стоят разные цели, так что не волнуйтесь, что они по-разному выглядят. Так и должно быть!Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Перед вами — ускоренный курс UX, посвященный психологии пользователя. Это далеко не все, что нужно знать о поведенческом дизайне. Это беглый обзор темы, который выведет вас на достойный уровень и подскажет несколько идей и техник для создания дизайна.

The state of the in-car user experience is something that has been written about extensively in 2015.It’s an obvious point of contention. The in-car infotainment system has been subject to numerous criticisms and scrutiny with their outdated interfaces and less than stellar user experiences. The reasons for this are numerous. After working with KIA on their With that in mind, we challenged ourselves to work within the constraints of today’s vehicle infotainment system and strive for a more cohesive experience from the mobile app to the in-car interface. Leveraging our knowledge of the existing KIA platform, we were able to validate a high-level of functionality and cross-platform communication from mobile device to automotive database.Utilizing a We started off by considering how we might be able to leverage data collected from the car’s companion smartphone app to sync with driver behavior in the in-car experience. By passively collecting the driver’s location via enabled location services, we can start to detect patterns and normalities in everyday behavior. The majority of people take the same route to work, leave around the same time and have pretty predictable habits. By leveraging that data, your smartphone could monitor your normal routes and behaviors and send you recommendations, updates and alerts that could save you time with more direct and up-to-date driving routes.For example, if your normal route to work has a severe traffic delay, you could receive an alert on your phone recommending an alternate route. Confirming the route via your smartphone would send the alternate route directly to your in-car navigation system. The route would automatically be loaded and queued up as soon as you got in your car. By working with the current MyUVO web app we learned how we were able to send commands from a smartphone that would be directly relayed to the in car infotainment system. While these technologies are still in need of some improvements, in terms of speed and response time, the process is promising.While KIA may not have the largest or Without claiming to be industrial design experts we tried to draw some common sense safety and ergonomic conclusions by allowing the driver to control a majority of their media and comfort features from the infotainment dial controller and surrounding buttons so that the driver’s free hand rarely needs to leave the center console to reach for other controls.To further the idea of “centralized control” we even incorporated ideas for utilizing the large infotainment screen for visual feedback on other digital controls throughout the car’s cabin. Immediate visual feedback is always available in the same central location, limiting the need for the driver’s eye to wander around the cabin while driving.Allowing the user to choose what screens are important to them for taking quick action and setting what cabin buttons trigger certain screens. In this concept we imagined that the user could set quick screens within the UVO app that could be launched into a grid of thirds so that the user could quickly navigate between their three favorite in-car apps.Working within an establish grid system, we reimagined what this custom experience would look like. Using common gestures like the “double tap” we can conclude that a user’s expectation is to see any active applications as well as quickly navigate through all of their favorite app. In-car preferences, such as menu and favorites could easily be synced via the app.By integrating learned behavior from user patterns we can start to identify abnormal destinations that might require additional directions. By syncing with a user’s existing calendar application in their smartphone we can integrate alerts for off site meetings, pulling in directions as needed. Drivers would be alerted and routed to their destination automatically, without fumbling with clunky typing mechanisms or an irregular search function. Focusing on quick selection actions, we are relying more on the intuitive and familiar smartphone interfaces for lengthier text inputs and immersive data.I want to emphasize that this is an early stage concept that was built with a week as a side project exploration. While KIA is a client of ours, this is not something that they commissioned us to do. We were simply satisfying our need to explore the options and ideas that came up as part of work creating their MyUVO web application interface. We will be continuing to work with KIA to bring these, and other concepts to life.The good news is that these types of integrations are not too far fetched. With Apple and Google entering the market we are bound to see larger advancements in the industry in the near future. As the car infotainment system continues to evolve we should challenge the industry to look at the in-car experience as an extension of our other devices and not a completely stand alone experience.Director of User Experience at Seamgen. San Diego, CA

Jack: Patreon is a way for creators to make a living doing what they do best, which is putting out beautiful, clever, funny, poignant things on the internet that millions of people love. For too long it’s been about page views and the size of your audience and advertising revenue. Unfortunately, those things don’t do a good job of helping creators make money. There are a lot of companies right now that are about finding listeners or readers or viewers. They’re consumer-first organizations. Patreon is a creator-first organization.Jack: It started in January of 2013. I’m a musician and I have a small, dedicated fan-base online. Generally my videos get about half a million views, and at the time, those videos would only make about $100, which just didn’t make sense to me. So I called up Sam, because he’s the man, and I gave him a very fuzzy, super-high level overview of the idea, like: “What if I asked my fans to give me a buck every time I released a new music video?” In three months Sam built this fully fleshed-out, amazing, thorough, beautiful product, and we launched it as Patreon. When I did my next video, after two weeks the product brought me $4,000 instead of $100.Sam: We’re creating a great experience for both creators and patrons, and the part that touches people most is the front end portion. The team is 16 total, and the core engineering team is only six people. Everything single thing this person produces will be really visible.Jack: They’re going to be building entire portions of the site. We just recently brought on Jimmy, who’s our lead on the front end. I think in a lot of other companies, especially larger ones, you’d be focused on a particular component or feature, or part of a larger push, but here you’re going to be pushing out entire assets, a whole page, the whole experience. Like, for example, the onboarding process for new creators.Right now we’re at the point where we are hiring our founding team. We’re looking for people who are going to build teams. We’re not looking for leaders, we’re looking for people who make other people leaders.Sam: Certainly we have engineers who are also creators, like Marcos, who does a lot of sculpture. Me personally, I do a lot of music things that I care about, and Kathy, who is a designer, she does all kinds of illustrations.It’s also important for us to foster a healthy culture that encourages all kinds of creativity. For example, Jimmy built out this whole framework on the front end called Oceans. We want to open source it so we can show the rest of the front-end community all the cool stuff we’re doing.Jack: You mean, what are the tough parts? Patreon is an early-stage company. I think it’s a little bit of a double-edged sword, because it means that we’re still figuring everything out.This isn’t a place to sit back and get told what to do. It’s a place for people to be excited about challenges. Even things about the business and internal operations, and how engineers communicate with the rest of the team, how product communicates with engineers, all that stuff is being figured out. You could consider that an obstacle, but we hope it’s exciting to people and they realize the opportunity to have a big footprint within the organization.Jack: Wow, that’s an interesting question. Well, one candidate we had asked how we think about the spectrum of users, the distinction between creators and patrons. That’s really challenging to think about. It’s the kind of thing that surfaces in all the things that we build, and it feels like an engineering question I guess, but it also manifests everywhere in the site. That was a really cool question. It made me feel like they were really thinking about high-level, long-term vision for the company.Jack: I can give an example. When Tim, a PM here, joined us he asked that I be a part of a meeting with him and Sam to make sure we aligned on this particular issue. I said great.Then the time came for the meeting, and I think I was in the middle of a phone call or something and I forgot about it. Tim wrote me an email right after and said, “Jack, I’m really disappointed you weren’t a part of this meeting. You told me you were going to be there and you weren’t there. I just wanted to give you that feedback.”I profusely thanked him for coming to me, and not only that, I’ve told that story to every employee at the company. I encourage everybody to do things like that when they feel like they’re not able to do their job for whatever reason. I think that helps encourage folks to get into the mentality that disagreements are not just welcome, they’re necessary to build a healthy, progressive culture.Jack: Thirteen months ago we were processing about $24,000 a month. The last time we processed, it was a little over $1.1 million, so we’ve had amazing growth in the last year.Sam: At the same time, there’s so much more that we want to do. In terms of burn, we have forever in some ways. We just raised $15 million, and we have more than that in the bank.Jack: We have 100 months of runway right now, which is actually a bad sign. I guess we can say the bottleneck right now is not money. That’s why we’re hiring.Jimmy: I joined Patreon two or three months ago. I’m the only front end guy here. Before Patreon, I kind of made my life about the craft. I believe the future is all about immersive digital experiences. I think that we’re in a renaissance when it comes to building cool UX and artistic experiences. With that being my background, I saw Patreon as this bastion for creators. I thought, “This product deserves a better experience,” and I wanted to be a part of that.Jimmy: I wake up really early, I pound some coffee, and I just run right in. We’re working on a really cool front-end framework, and we’re also building a lot of cool new features. After standup at 11, the rest of the day involves just moving things forward, checking in with the team, and iterating on code.Jimmy: I talk a lot with the engineers on the team. I think we have a very open and transparent group, so there’s a strong sense of collaboration. If someone’s working on something, I kind of just peer over. If I’m working on something, they peer over. We provide a lot of constructive feedback. Our designer is so in love with creating visual experiences too, and, you know, when two people have a lot of passion for one thing, it’s just really easy to get into an engaging conversation. You get lost in your work. That’s the environment that I really enjoy, and it just kind of happens every day.Jimmy: The challenge is that you start with a product that defines the business in the beginning, right? It gets made quickly and proves a concept for what people need, and Patreon definitely did that. The biggest challenge now is taking that and putting craft to it. Now we have to make something that doesn’t just work for one demographic, but for as many users as possible.I think that’s a challenge a lot of people have when they work on products. They think about themselves and their friends, but we have to think beyond that. Things that we might like, our creators might not, so we have to balance those needs. I think building experiences for people is really hard, because you have to think beyond yourself. It’s a very empathetic thing. You need to honor as many people as possible. Sometimes we do make mistakes, and that’s okay, because we’re trying our hardest, and we know that we’re the forerunners in this business. We have to try our hardest because no one else is doing it.Jimmy: Absolutely. The people you’re with here, they’re going to fight for the same ideals as you, and that moves you so much. It’s like, I’m Jimmy: I don’t think it’s about how good you are necessarily. I think talent is something that you gain from making mistakes, and you’re just more prepared for them than other people. It’s really about where your head’s at. Do you like making things for other people? Do you care about this space? Do you care about people who produce art, who produce music, who write? Does this actually matter to you? If you’ve got that, then you’ll solve any problem.We tell stories about great jobs in the San Francisco Bay Area. Produced by Culture-focused content to help high-growth companies scale their teams. Follow us to hear about jobs at the Bay Area’s top companies.

Imagine que você está no Mc Donald’s nos Estados Unidos e pede, pela primeira vez na sua vida, um Big Mac. Você come e adora. Você acha convidativo todo aquele ambiente decorado em vermelho e amarelo, com um palhaço sorrindo para você e dizendo “coma, coma, coma”. Então, você sai e, por conta da sua viagem, em outro estado dos EUA, você entra em outra loja do McDonald’s e lá está um Big Mac igualzinho para você degustar. E assim acontece todo o período da sua estadia por lá. Você se torna um cliente.Depois de um tempo, você volta para o Brasil e vê que abriu um McDonald’s na sua cidade. Você fica animado para ir comprar aquele delicioso e suculento Big Mac que você experimentou nos EUA. Então, em uma noite sem comida em casa, você decide visitar o tal lugar.Quando você chega lá, as paredes são pintadas de verde e azul, inclusive o palhaço. Você se pergunta se entrou no lugar certo. Confere se está escrito “McDonald’s” e não “McRonald’s” — bem, essas coisas acontecem. Mas, não. Lá está, estampado em letras garrafais o tal do “McDonald’s”, exatamente como nos EUA. Mas, você tenta ignorar o detalhe e parte para o balcão.Aí, você, já que saiu de casa e está lá, come a coxinha ( que não deixa de ser boa, mas não era o que você queria — às vezes, ela pode estar dura e fria, aí piora a situação). Você vai pra casa e decide nunca mais ir comer no McDonald’s.Não se trata aqui de oferecer algo a mais para um determinado público específico e deixar o outro sem opção, como um Mac de Carne de Cachorro sendo oferecido na China. Em outros lugares essa opção não seria viável.Agora vamos fazer uma analogia: Digamos que o McDonalds do Estados Unidos seja o Agora, vamos imaginar que temos um app de chat. Tal app, funciona, hipoteticamente no iOS e no Windows Phone. No iOS temos um pacote de 12 emoticons chamado “Zoo” e no Windows Phone temos o pacote de 18 carinhas chamado “Mariazinha”. Além disso, temos figurinhas, só presentes no iOS e não no Windows Phone. O app no iOS tem como cor principal o verde, e no Windows Phone, azul. As outras funções de chat, áudio e vídeo funcionam em ambas as plataformas normalmente. Vamos chamar então essa falta e disparidade nas funções entre os apps de Bem como nos Mac Donald’s que fazem o básico, “vender fast food”, ambos os apps conseguem se comunicar fazendo as funções principais. No entanto, o resto da experiência, como quando nosso personagem chegou em outra loja de cor e produtos diferentes, tornou-se confusa. Não havia identificação.Pode parecer óbvio, mas muitos aplicativos cometem esse tipo de erro entre as plataformas. Alguns, com funções mais importantes, outros, nem tanto. Contudo, é importante observar tal questão porque os usuários sabem quando alguma função não funciona em todo o “ecossistema”, deixando-os incrivelmente frustrados — principalmente tratando-se de interações sociais.Outra questão a se observar, é o lançamento de atualizações com novas funções somente para determinado OS (geralmente iOS e Android vêm primeiro), deixando outros aplicativos para trás e causando o mesmo tipo de frustração. Por que as empresas não lançam atualizações simultâneas dos aplicativos para todas as plataformas? Talvez alguém responda que seja por causa do tempo necessário para criar todos os aplicativos e precise fazer esse tipo de estratégia para responder rápido ao mercado, mas, onde fica a experiência do usuário? Se determinada empresa costuma a fazer isso e se diz centrada no usuário ela é uma grande hipócrita.Se você é usuário do Windows Phone deve entender disso tão bem quanto eu. E, não é culpa da Microsoft ( ou não totalmente ), as empresas criaram essa cultura de colocar o iOS e o Android em primeiro lugar, deixando seus apps oficiais para o Windows Phone sempre para “atualizações futuras”. Não tenho palavras para dizer o quão frustante isso é.Espero, honestamente, que esse cenário mude em um futuro próximo e que os desenvolvedores entendam que o usuário é usuário onde quer que ele esteja e precisa ser tratado igualmente, dentro de suas particularidades.UI/UX designer; Psicology and Philosophy lover; Born weirdTextos sobre UX design

今年の春〜初夏は自身の専門領域に関するカンファレンスが集中して各地で開催される慌ただしい期間。その一環で、6月4日〜5日の2日間、アムステルダムで開催されたユーザーエクスペリエンス戦略（UX戦略）をテーマにした国際会議「本カンファレンスは2年前に米国アトランタで初めて開催された若いカンファレンスで、元々はLinkedInのコミュニティからボトムアップ型で実現したもの。参加者もビジネス・デザイン双方の領域の専門家が集い「UX戦略」をテーマに話題提供や事例紹介、議論が行われる活発なカンファレンスで、初回のアトランタ、昨年第二回のボルダー開催に続き今年はまたアトランタで第三回目の開催が予定されているが、米国開催大会とは別のローカル・スピンアウト型のカンファレンスとして、今回初の欧州開催が実現した。筆者自身も「UX戦略」については個人的に最も関心があるテーマなので第一回開催から欠かさず参加しているが、今回は欧州での開催ということで特に期待をもって参加した。どういう期待かと言うと、個人的な印象でもあり、知り合いの専門家仲間からの意見として聞くにつけ、米国よりも欧州の方がサービスに関する考え方や顧客への価値提供についての姿勢など、日本にも近い部分があり、今後参考にしうる点も多いのではないか？という点を感じているからであった。2日間のカンファレンスを通じて感じたのは、今回の欧州開催大会にはやはり参加してよかったということだ。さまざまな議論が行われた中で個人的に注目したトピックは3つ。一つ目は、多様性への適応と組織論としてのUX戦略。欧州と一言で行っても、当然ながらその中には数々の国や文化が存在し、その中で企業は製品やサービスを思考し、顧客に提供している。米国での開催大会もUX戦略が重要視され、浸透し、機能するためには行き着くところ「UX戦略のための組織論」になることが増えてきたが、今回の欧州大会も同様に多くのスピーカーがこの点については論じた。しかし米国での話題提供や事例以上に、各ステークホルダー（社内の、であることが多い）にUXやデザイン思考の重要性を理解してもらったり、それらによる事業貢献への期待を確信してもらう。その上で主体的にチームの一員となってともにUX戦略推進に手を貸してもらうための具体的なアプローチや説得の仕方、などがより具体性をもって紹介・議論されていた。いまや世界中のグローバル企業がそうなってきつつあるとはいえ、こと欧州においては市場も、自社の仲間も含めてより多様であり、そういった多様性を尊重することが大前提となっている証でもあろう。この点については、欧州委員会（European Comission）で首席UXストラテジストを勤めるAnnie Stewartや、経営管理システム（ERP)のグローバルベンダーであるSAPでデザインと共創イノベーションの責任者をつとめるAndreas Hauserらが語っていた。内部のステークホルダーを巻き込み、目標を一つにそろえていく活動において、顧客＝UserとしてのUX戦略はもとより、社内のステークホルダー＝Userととらえた参加設計が重要で、それはいうなればインターナルなUX戦略とも言えるのではないか？ということだった。二つ目は、データ指向。前述、一つ目のトピックで触れた社内ステークホルダーへのUX戦略の浸透にあたって、関与者をConvinceする目的で様々なデータを根拠に議論されているという点。製品のインタフェースデザイン刷新によって得られたビジネスへのインパクトや、Webサイトの再設計による経済効率の向上、UXの見直し前後でのユーザー行動の変化を定量的に収集比較などなど、プレゼンテーションのみならず、会期中に3回行われた”Break Out Discussion”と呼ばれる少人数に分かれて行うディスカッションの場でも、「組織にUX戦略を浸透させるには？」「自社がデジタルトランスフォーメーションを実現するために必要なことは？」などの話題提供に対し、幾度と無く参加者からは「1にもデータ、2にもデータ、すべてデータで語ることだ」という意見が挙げられた。多様性に適応していきつつも、ブレない指標として最大限データ化していこう、という努力を重ねる欧州の現状を垣間見た気がした。そして三つ目は、UXにおいてユーザーに提供すべきと考える価値提供範囲の定義について。私感でもあるのでだが、米国やましてや日本に比べ、欧州では”UX=User eXperience”という言葉と、”CX=Customer eXperience”という言葉を意図的に使い分けているように以前から感じていた。論調として感じるのは、CXは企業のアイデンティティや広義の意味でのサービス全体をその範囲としてとらえたホリスティックな経験価値の提供指針で、UXはポジショニングとしてCXの範囲の中に位置し、製品や具体的な意味でのサービスを顧客中心発想で定義されるもの、という考え方である。この考え方を少し荒っぽく解釈すると、CX戦略は一昔前でいうブランディングに該当し、UX戦略は製品・サービス戦略そのものに該当するという流れになってきているのではないか？というのが筆者の所感である。加えて、UXは特にデジタルの領域における経験価値を広く網羅的に扱うものとして議論されており、今後ますます企業（製品・サービス）と顧客の接点はデジタル化していくことは明白であることを視野に入れ、前述したCX∋UXの図式は、徐々にUXの時間的概念が拡張していくという概念を英国に拠点をおくインタフェースデザインコンサルティング企業Nomensaの代表であるSimon Norris氏は提唱し、これをCustomer Lifetime Value（CLV）と提唱し、「デジタルは全てのファンクショナルチームを横断する。」として、UXはデジタル全体を扱うからこそ、全ての事業戦略的はUX戦略的（UX Strategically）に適応していくべきだ、とも主張した。以上が2日間の参加を終えた所感である。カンファレンス自体は過去2回の米国開催と同様かそれ以上に参加者同士の距離が近く、適宜持たれるブレイクタイムやディスカッションの場では積極的かつ気さくな議論と交流が促されていて、そしてなによりアムステルダムの美しい町の景色もあいまって非常に親密でリラックスした素晴らしい体験がデザインされていたことも、とても好感のもてるものであった。初めてUX戦略をタイトルに冠したカンファレンスが開催された2年前には、「UX戦略」という言葉自体の定義もまだまだ今以上に曖昧で、ビジネスとデザインの領域の融合が重要である、というような原始的な議論が中心であったが、今となってはそれはもう当然という論調となった。そして、UX戦略は企業における製品戦略と同等の意味をもち、顧客接点のデジタルシフトがますます加速する中で一層企業が一丸として取り組むべきものであるという重要性が高まっていくべきものである、と考えると、日本国内の市場においても早急に取り組むべき考え方であることをよりいっそう確信できた良いカンファレンスであった。もう数時間したら日本に帰ります。アムステルダム大好き！Im a UX Strategist and musician. enjoy Design,business, music and our lives!

(Вы читаете перевод курса Если вы хотите создать нечто по-настоящему заразное, в идеале это должно передаваться от человека к человеку как можно быстрее. В промышленном дизайне время, необходимое чтобы пользователь скачал что-то и “заразил” кого-то еще, имеет название:Сеньор Питт считает до 10, и за это время человек полностью трансформируется. Бред напуган, потому что он понимает всю опасность ситуации.У вируса Эта сцена сделана специально, чтобы проиллюстрировать один из фундаментальных принципов вирусного дизайна: чем быстрее вирус проявляется, тем быстрее он распространяется.Когда человек впервые заходит на ваш сайт, или скачивает ваше приложение, или открывает программу, ему обычно требуется какое-то время, чтобы понять всю ценность того, что вы предлагаете. То есть ему нужно настроить все, или зарегистрироваться, или разобраться в кнопках, или пройти первый уровень.Поэтому стартапы так сильно концентрируются на проектировании Именно поэтому, когда мы достаем из коробки новый айфон, у него заряжена батарея.Это чтобы вы могли как можно скорее начать пользоваться всеми крутыми штуками.Возможно, ваша первая реакция будет такой: “С чего это я буду тратить силы на создание чего-то, что даже не улучшает мое приложение и не принесет мне денег? Если продукт простой в использовании, люди и так поймут”.Технически эту мысль нельзя назвать неправильной. Если продукт сам по себе хорош, пользователь не получит никакой дополнительной выгоды от того, что быстрее научится им пользоваться. Ну разве что чуть меньше напряжется в процессе освоения.Но речь не о пользователе. Мы говорим о вирусе.Представьте себе два приложения. Одно приложение можно освоить за 10 минут, а другое – за 60. Довольно реалистично. А еще представьте, что оба приложения просто замечательные.Вирусы распространяются, приумножаясь в геометрической прогрессии. Они заражают человека, он – еще двоих, которые, в свою очередь, заражают еще двоих, и так далее.Это означает, что 10-минутное приложение способно “заразить” 32 человека в первые 60 минут, в то время как 60-минутное успеет заразить только одного.Если представить себе зомби, то 10-минутный вирусный цикл внушает страх. А в случае с 60-минутным циклом представляется один зомби, запертый в комнате.Поэтому при проектировании чего-то вирусного имейте в виду, что время, которое уходит на освоение чего-то и передачу этой информации другому человеку, называется Копирайтер и переводчик. Оля. Семь коротких уроков про основные характеристики вирусных продуктов, приложений, сайтов и контента.

Remember we were Hope you liked it!Journalist. Mobile technology. Apps development. iOS, Android, Backend. Startups. Interviews. Creative writer.Mobile app technology, iOS  Android development, UX  Design, Startup interviews  Digests

The Bay Area is a tough place to do UX research. With The tried and true method to gauge how users will interact is through hands-on UX research.Yes, it’s often possible to reach a broader audience by doing this remotely, but depending on the question at hand, sometimes you really just need some face time. Unfortunately, there are quite a few reasons why getting a legitimate line of feedback can be quite tough in the Bay Area, and here’s why:One thing that can be said about San Francisco with ease is that it breaks the mold – it sets trends and makes examples, rather than following the crowd. Therefore, it’s not a particularly great representation of the US population as a whole.A 2013 survey showed that San Francisco A SOASTA survey held in October 2013 showed that San Francisco had the highest smartphone shopping rate across the markets surveyed. With 75When you compare the typical lifestyle and technology adoption of the Bay Area to many other parts of the US, it feels like an entirely different country altogether. In terms of a place to test out innovative designs, it can be a double-edged sword. People in the Bay Area are comfortable with their apps and will expect things to look and work a certain way that they have become accustomed to. If Uber does it one way and you want to do it another, expect your research participant to challenge you.A common response to hear within the Bay Area when asking about smartphone usage is that unless the application itself is absolutely outstanding, and offers something truly out of the norm, it won’t stick around on the phone. It means that since their smartphone memory is full, they are viewing your app designs with a suspicious eye. If what you are showing isn’t significantly better than what they’ve already got (and will be comparing to), they will certainly tell you why they would never download it in the first place.Lots of people already know that this is a common place for UX research, so they already kind of know the drill. This means that you might not have to remind them to “think aloud” as much or explain to them what it is you are trying to do. Also, if they felt valued as a participant, you might be able to hit them back up once you’ve made your next round of adjustments.The Bay Area has an incredible technologically affluent crowd, meaning that you can easily find people who know how to get around their iPhone and speak design language. It allows you to think a little bit outside of the box with product releases , as people are less likely to be thrown by a paper-and-pencil drawing of an Android application than in other parts of the nation.Bay Area residents are hungry to be the first to tell their friends next home about the next big thing. This alone is often incentive enough for people to volunteer to be a UX research participant.Want to talk about UX research or the best vegetarian food in SF? Psychologist and UX Design

Haftalık derlenen UX ve UI tasarım notları. UX süreçleri, araçları, tasarım fikirleri.UI designer, developer. Co-founder of Haftalık derlenen UX ve UI tasarım notları. UX süreçleri, araçları, tasarım fikirleri.

The Future of User Experience (UX) Mapping Tools2014 provided me with a great opportunity to discover myself.dI took an inventory of content myself, and discover the idea of “tool making of myself”. and, cried involuntarily “selling pickaxes in a gold rush.”So, My first lesson is “UX Mapping Tool” reserach and development.For instance, for ethnography fieldwork (by observation), researchers need to manage photographs and memos. They regularly use Post-Its at workshops.In 2014, With online tools like So, in these solutions users not satisfied. so, I thought we try to develop it.At In this case, the same issue as seen in Seeking to alleviate the issues above, we planned the The core concept is to allow users to see their activity first and foremost, up-front. Cards can be combined and rearranged to smoothly create a journey map.These journey maps can then be shared. Cards (activities) can also be added to these maps. As touchpoints increase, the tool remains highly responsive and allows for the creation of new journey maps. A mobile app allows for continuous connectivity on the go, and it synchs with the web app.This project has been underway as an RD venture since last year under the auspices of We will continue updating with the latest news and details.Japanese entry here: IA/UX Designer, Author book IA Thinking

Hmmm. I keep overhearing tech companies say this verbatim. Theyre in search for this mystical UX designer that will make their product revenue skyrocket. Its a sad trend - moving up and to the right.Any UI designer worth his/her weight should be fully capable of providing good UX (in form of navigation, flow, etc.).A few years ago there was no such job title as a UX designer. If the design was the catalyst for a poor performing product; it was the visual design that needed help. Now, UX designers are often the scapegoats for poor performing products. I dont necessarily agree. (Perhaps Im biased :D)UX starts from the sales team, funnels through account management and then into product. The whole concept of UX revolves around communication. The people who interact with your customers the most— understand the painpoints of the product and objectives of your customers. The communication should be the following: A talented UX guy Let me hear your thoughts, opinions - Follow me Product Designer at Pivotal Labs

In the world of UX there are two main goals that must be aligned. Those are user, and business goals. Users using a product, and the business that owns that product need to have complimentary goals in order for both to be successful. That is the core of UX design.Let’s break those goals down and see why they are important.A user is using an app or website for a reason, mainly beacause they need something from that product. Wether it be to connect to family/friends on Facebook, posting pictures of their food on Instagram, or reading the news with Flipboard.There is a reason that every app or website has been made. Someone has realized that people love to read the news, so they brought news to everyones pocket with Flipboard, or realized that people want to “capture and share the worlds moments” as Instagram’s mission statement says. However, each app has it’s own business model, if you are a company like Facebook or Google and decide you want to make a lot of money selling ads, your business strategy is going to be a lot different than if you are a website like Etsy who charges its users 20 cents for every product that they upload to the site.An example of great UX design is when you can align a business goal with a users goal so that both are successful, and both parties benefit from one another.Google and YouTube are probably one of the greatest example of this. Amazon does an amazing job at this too, and we’ll look at them in a bit. An example of Youtube’s success would be that you visit YouTube for one main reason, to watch videos, thats the user’s goal. YouTube’s goal is to make money, while creating a service that allows people to watch videos. How does YouTube make money? With ads. So it’s fairly obvious you need to put the two together and put ads in the videos. However that is only completing the business goals, you then need to make things like the search intuitive so that users will watch more videos, resulting in more ads being watched and boom, everyone is happy.If those goals aren’t aligned properly then what can happen is your business can have lots of users that are having a great time but the business is not benefiting from that, or there could be no users and again that creates no benefit for the business.Let’s take a look at Amazon.Amazon pioneered the one-click checkout. Why is this great UX design? Well, you go to Amazon for one main reason, to buy something. Amazon’s business goal is to make money from those transactions. The user is happy because they only need to click one button to checkout, making the act of buying things much easier. If it’s easier for people to buy things, more things will be bought. If more things get bought than Amazon makes money.It’s clear to see that once you connect the dots and align the users goals with those of the business. The user can have an amazing experience and the business will benefit from that, in turn being able to improve their service resulting in improving the user’s experience as well. It’s a win-win for everyone.Thank you for taking the time my article, you can find me elsewhere below!I am a Designer at MindSea Development Inc.A collection for new and student designers.

The technology war drove us to build interfaces and experiences that were too sophisticated for mobile gaming. Gameplay on a handheld system was never meant to be the same as on a console because the use cases are vastly different.Neither of these hypothetical situations are ideal but if the use cases are reversed they both make sense. The Game Boy Advance had a battery life of approximately 15 hours and games that were build to be picked up and played in bursts but could be enjoyed for prolonged periods. Nintendo knew we did not need a console experience on a portable system but now Sony and other competition have forced their hand. The Game Boy Advance was the best handheld gaming system ever* because it was released before the flood.Leading marketing at@GeneGuru (DNA-based diet plans)

I have so far failed to understand how UX fits into Agile Development process.Design in Agile manifesto gets a little less attention. One of the Principles behind the Agile Manifesto says:It does not answer ‘what about designers?’Another drawback of the manifesto is —The problem I want to state here is that there always is a need to paint a vision before you get into constructing something. The Agile Development does not cater for enough time to construct this visionary picture for the client and assumes that the iterative process will eventually lead to a perfect translation of clients needs into a product solution.To overcome this hurdle, and still be able to fit within Agile process, some people add a In-fact, there should be enough time available in the beginning of a project to understand user needs, do field studies, understand work flows, define problem areas, do competition benchmarking and create a visionary picture for the client to sign on something.I am not saying design complete solution, but at-least define a direction.I haven’t finished thinking over it yet, so t.b.c… :)Do add your thoughts to elaborate or counter my understanding.Sr. User Experience Design Expert @ SAP

When I joined the Connections was born as a Lotus product that could be installed Our development team was tasked with the unique mission of having to develop and maintain a performant, accessible and globalized product that delivered a compelling experience out of the box, but were also extensible and customizable to meet the customers’ unique requirements for integration, wording, visual design, and extension.We wouldn’t have been able to deliver on the mission hadn’t we had the support of a few elements:I had the pleasure to collaborate since the start with a small team of clever front-end developers who produced the The OneUI style guide had some dynamic behavior, in that it loaded patterns in Another precious ally in our quest for total customization was the use of a runtime resource aggregator built on an At the peak of its heyday our resource aggregator was able to crawl and aggregate JS files via AMD To the maximum extent possible, we arranged and organized our library of UI patterns and widgets into a live style guide. A living style guide is like a catalog of patterns implemented with HTML and CSS, but also made live by JavaScript to match the end user’s interaction. Since our applications were mostly single page JS apps, using Dojo widgets heavily, this meant the pages were often simple launchers for widgets with a number of variations of configuration settings.We got as far as reaching a point where we were doing true While we set everything up in theory, in practice we had underestimated the creativity of our users. Some I had a sudden flashback while I was reading the brilliant article We had an even worse problem. Since we committed to let our customers create visual themes that matched their corporate identity by overriding our styles, it meant that we couldn’t alter the structure of pages without breaking all of our customers’ custom themes. This had a negative impact on our own internal development as well, as All in all, it was a continuous learning process that taught us the hard way. During that experience, we learned many important lessons that I’d like to write down for my own records for future reference, as well as share them with front-end developers tasked with similar goals.Since our application was integrated in contexts beyond our control, or customers could arbitrarily inject third party styles into pages, namespacing our classes was essential.This reduced the likelihood of interferences between the product’s own CSS selectors and third party styles’ selectors to a minimum.In detail, the OneUI Toolkit used the With a fast paced development schedule, regularly upcoming deadlines, and a physiological turnover of developers and designers in the project, it is essential to facilitate communication between design and dev, as well within the development team at large.In our experience, developing a catalog of UX patterns proved invaluable to quickly iterate over designs, prototype new widgets or entire pages, and try them out with all supported themes.While our style guide was never published or shared with customers, it served well as a development tool, also exercised by automated end to end tests in CI, as well as a communication tool to browse and review patterns.A nice side effect of offering extension points was the ability to use them to provide a different UX in on-prem and cloud deployment configurations, e.g. different typeaheads or person cards when used against a multitenant directory service in the cloud.When your code is shipped to customers, it’s out. You can’t control it anymore. It took us a couple of releases to figure out we’d better document extension points and cover them with automated unit tests, than let customers be creative and choose where to attach their extensions.As a result, the number of problems reported on the field went down dramatically, as most of the regressions and problems were caught during development sprints.One of the key advantages of using a runtime aggregator was to enable a single deployment to serve different code to user agents, without knowing a priori what code would be requested. The ability to aggregate and serve minified code on the fly was essential given our product was often integrated in custom-built solutions.If you don’t have such a use case, you’d better build your resources into layers via Before CSS preprocessors and build systems like Less or Sass became mainstream, our documentation instructed customers to extract a copy of the CSS from the deployed applications, clone it and modify it, then place it in a location where the the product would’ve read it to replace or extend the default stylesheets.Open sourcing your style toolkit allows customers to clone, modify and rebuild the stylesheets of the product, as well as lets them make use of the style guide and tests, thus taking advantage not just of the code, but also the development methodology to ensure continuous quality.Full stack web developer with a keen interest for the Open Web Platform, privacy, security, and IoT. Ex IBM, on a short career break. All views my own.

Prototypes are simulations. They simulate some aspect of the user interaction.If user experience is important to your design — Prototyping leads to innovation. It allows you to involve the end user in the design process, and it helps to increase communication between the teams working on the product.Without properly defining goals you waste time and resources creating ineffective prototypes.5 step circular design process for creating effective prototypes.I am a Designer at MindSea Development Inc.A collection for new and student designers.

For businesses, 2014 is the year when mobile will be first medium to get connected with the users. Mobile app marketers will seek the new methods to As many until lately have used the desktop and laptop to get the things done on the web for the past two years. Mobile UX design will take the middle level as the web designers and developers will aim to turn mobile users into faithful mobile app customers. One of the difficulties that can be found is to eliminate the idea many people have, that, just due to it’s a small screen device, daily projects should not be regarded a hassle.Small and big brands keep endeavor to make the mobile user experience so sleek, user will consider their smartphones as a first display rather than their second option. By developing mobile applications and integrating mobile UX design they can accomplish this.Here I am sharing some mobile UX design trends that will helps you to provide great user experience to your mobile customers.Do you have any design style tricks that you would like to share? What draws your customers in? Share with us via commenting below.Digital Marketer and Editor  Blogger-in-Chief at All about mobile development, app development, and more

Are you embracing a neighborhood or painting over the old for visual effect.As I walked down market street in the so-called “Mid-Market” area (aka the the tenderloin). I was surprised by the amount of new stores and restaurants around Twitter, Uber  Square. Along with the infamous NEMA building. Where minted tech workers can live in a community of their peers in luxury for a hefty price. A diner I’d walked past many times now serves Slumptown Coffee and there’s a new vaguely named glass, “hipster” coffee shop. Everything seems sterile though.Many of the bordered up stores are gone but none of the new are adding anything to the neighborhood. They’re just visuals to add a false sense of class or there to cash in on the wealthy buildings across the street. If that area has a complete conversion I don’t see it adding anything to the city.It will likely host people that want the benefits of living in San Francisco without actually living in San Francisco and potentially interacting with locals. Appealing to the kind of people that feel at home in airport lounges.Regeneration must embrace the culture of a neighborhood and be inclusive. I think most of the people that are moving into the city support this ethos. They want coffee from a place with fair prices, passionate founders and the best quality. Philz is an amazing example of this at work.In the mission, some high-end developments seek to let people that wouldn’t usually live in the mission live closer to their favorite bars, restaurants and friends. Again though, why try to replace when you can involve yourself in a community. We have some of the best food in SF and most of it comes from places that have been there for years. Refining their craft and only now making more money thanks to the tech boom. Even though their rents are rising too.Gentrification does displace but San Francisco is going to keep growing. Some dangerous neighborhoods are becoming safer for everyone. I hope the city builds, invests in the safety of lower income neighborhoods that haven’t seen any benefits yet and invests in improving public transit, so it’s easier to live further out. I don’t want to live in a city with no families, culture or diversity.21. House Music. I’m not interested in your startup.

As a UI/UX designer I often like to keep pieces of software that inspire me.By keeping I mean I like to store them somewhere, safe, in order to be able to come back to them when I’m in need of ideas or input on different ways to do things.For a long time I did that by managing a long list of Bookmark folders, where I would store cool websites. Although I still do that, nowadays I’m more focused on mobile, and so I tend to do this by basically downloading the apps I like the most and keeping them in a separate folder.I call this folder Inspiration, and today I’d like to show you some of the apps I have inside.From Krush I like how the app responds to my gestures, how fast it is and how smooth the animations perform. I often like to browse between different products and endorse them just to see the animations run. Apart from endorsing a product I also like the animations inside a product details page and on the user section.When I first came across Yummly I felt sorry not to be more interested in cooking. The app is full of great details, animations and transitions and all of them are fast and enrich the app in many ways. I always use Yummly as an example of a very good example of customized UI. I love the way they’ve been able to come up with a brand new sidebar menu that unfolds from the top and still feels natural and functional as a classical left drawer menu.Look at the different levels of speed on every bullet of the walkthrough and how they impart depth and motion through the whole tour.I wish I had found this Dribbble client before. I always thought Once you tap on a tile you get to see its details and user information, which display on another level and leave the tiles on the background. Very cool.I’ts been a pleasure to play with this video app. I specially love the way they organized the collection browser and how can you navigate through it by swiping up or down. Each one of your gestures enlarges the next collection so you have a clear sense of which one you are going through. This effect may feel a bit limiting at the beginning as scroll on the section is not enabled, but I still feel is worth having it and specially trying different behaviours that can bring this sort of freshness to the experience.I would encourage everyone that works in UI or UX to keep track of the stuff they go through and to store it where you can find it again. There are some tools out there like I would love to see which apps do other designers have on their Inspiration folder. Don’t hesitate to share!Bio: 

Ok, that is not David Ogilvy’s original quote. The original quote is:—and it’s probably one of the oldest but truest adages in advertising.But let’s apply that to a new field beyond advertising: UX design, a field filled with more unknowns than knowns.As a designer I too get caught up in the self induced “creative process,” in which I focus on the entirely wrong things. I ask myself too many times, “By requiring the outcome to be ‘unique’ or ‘creative’ you can end up with an outcome that does not solve the users (and therefore the clients) problem. Instead it is crativitiy for creativity’s sake.Remember that as a UX designer, you are not an artist. We are not aiming for something no one has done before. We are problem solvers. Novelty is a unicorn you should not chase because it distracts you from the practical answer.You shine in your ability to solve challenging issues — not by creating a design that no one else has.Product Designer 

It’s been thirty-one years since Windows first graced our screens. But how much has user experience really changed in that time?It’s 10th November 2014. Thirty-one years ago, from a small office in Redmond, Washington, a bespecticled software developer released his creation to the world. Little did he know how far it would fly, or how long it would fly for.Microsoft wasn’t the first, and it certainly wasn’t the last. Ten years before Windows was birthed, Xerox built a bitmapped user interface that would probably still hold up as usable today. Apple, heavily influenced by Xerox, started working on their own desktop GUI in the late 70s and by 1984 had released the Macintosh Desktop.What followed was nothing short of a land-grab remeniscent of the Land Runs seen in America in the late 1800s.In the past 30 years, we’ve seen Windows come to dominate desktop operating environments, Apple take their UX concepts from little screen to big screen to little screen, and Xerox do… absolutely nothing. The internet boom of the 90s gave birth to a slew of awful design — from Windows 98s “lets put the internet so far in your face you choke on it” approach, through to the sprawling mess of animated GIFs and scrolling marquees that made the early web so memorable.The “battle for the desktop” was, at its heart, a battle for who could put their content in front of a user’s eyeballs the fastest. The UX designer of the late 90s and early 2000s was more salesman than artist, and cash wasn’t in short supply for those who could get a hit counter to pass a million.Had the dot com bubble not burst, I don’t think we’d have moved past that “everything is an advert” mentality. As with any great economic upheaval, those who could change and adapt were the ones who survived — and the destruction of “Web 1.0 gave birth to a level of simplicity that has reigned since.Google were the first company I saw that seemed to get ‘simple’ right. While every other search engine was trying to create ‘portal’ pages to hold their margins together after the bubble burst, Google burst onto the scene with a page so simple that I almost didn’t take them seriously. The focus on doing one thing — doing it well — and getting out of the way of the user so that they can focus on what’s important to them… it was a breath of fresh air.Google’s fame wasn’t the only factor in changing the way people thought about user experience. Suddenly, a huge mass of people owned a computer. The world had become smaller — and users, for the first time, were seeing that they didn’t have to accept a heavily dictated user experience. They had choice.Apple capitalised on simplicity. Its idea that a desktop OS should be simple, entirely focussed around a user’s needs, was groundbreaking — but underused. Windows had a foothold on the world, and one it wasn’t giving up easily. The now infamous Mac vs PC adverts of the early 2000s did a great job of bringing the UX war to public view, ridiculing the complex and outdated, and celebrating the focus on user choice, user experience, and user needs.Fast forward to the present day and technology — much like the automobile — is still very similar to how it was thirty years ago. While the devices we use have got smaller, and the internet has revolutionised the way that we all work and think, we still fundamentally sit down in front of a screen with a keyboard and mouse (or trackpad) and move a pointer around the screen.Back to the Future predicted that by 2015 we’d have flying cars, holograms, and AIs that we could order Pepsi from in retro 80s themed cafes. In reality, my desktop looks so similar to Xerox’s 1973 invention you could hardly tell that 41 years had passed since it first said “Hello, world.”Microsoft has, arguably, had the most guts in this fight recently — they took a gamble and changed the look and feel of Windows far more than Apple has changed OS X, and have had some very mixed reviews. People hate change.But now, 31 years after it launched, the name of Microsoft’s flagship operating system is far more relevant to user experience than it ever has been:The war for user experience wages on — but the tactics, and the definition of victory, is the biggest thing that has changed in the past thirty years. Content is paramount, context is key, and relevance is the glue that holds it all together. Nobody cares whether you’re a Mac or a PC any more (fanboys aside), nobody cares about portals or built-in apps or colour schemes. People want a personal connection with the technology they’re in front of — whether at home, work, or school — and they will always take the path of least resistance.Personally? I’m torn between wanting every surface in my house to be a window into my digital world, and wanting only the smallest of devices to bridge the gap between the physical and the virtual.All I know is, if something doesn’t change soon, this war could just keep rumbling on forever — and Writer. Musician. Geek.

In UX design, when you observe people’s behaviours, they are more likely to perform or continue an action when they invest their own personal time into something, this is something one barista understands…Last week, I grabbed a drink in my local coffee shop. A chap came in and ordered his drink, and as the barista was making it, they asked the customer if they could “…just grab a glass from the cupboard behind you” and as you might expect, the customer replied with a slightly surprised “oh, err, sure” and off they went to find this shelf with the required glass. They came back triumphant with the glass in hand and the barista completed their order.The barista was being intentional here. He knew that you have to involve your customer in creating the product. Why? When a customer helps create the drink they a rewarded with a greater sense of ownership and pride, in the product they just bought. Hopefully, they will come back and spend more money in future. With video: There are many sites that try (and succeed) to evoke emotions in their users to create some sort of brand loyalty. The biggest and first one that comes to mind, Apple.Just try to watch this without tearing up a little and then wanting to buy the latest iPhone.With notes: Medium is the best example of this. Making notes directly onto the content to give whoever reads it context. This is something I explored before Medium was released and I found the most likely place you can see examples of this, is in education. You have all probably read a book, manuscript or a university paper at some point and seen scribbled notes in the margins (I decided to explore this while studying a poem called Adding in small interactions to compliment an existing experience that can surprise and make a user think “oh, that’s pretty cool” (little nuances like pull to refresh), will spur them on to talk about it to their friends / families. And if people are talking positively about your product or service, then it can only lead to bigger and better things.As a full time UX designer and Welshman, the focus of Matt’s work lies in the conception, design and development of digital experiences here at Etch, employing simple and elegant solutions to design problems. Back home in Wales, he’s considered the most highly regarded Macaroni Cheese connoisseur.We’re a user experience design and consulting agency.

3 months ago we were approached by We spoke for 30 minutes and explained that in 2015 and onwards, the companies who will differentiate themselves from their competitors are those who will be able to deliver delightful customer experiences. And these experiences can only be created if we use empathy to understand the customer and their needs and problems. In short, we re-think the traditional approach and instead put the customer first and build services around them.At the end of the talk, we did a 60 minute workshop with the attendees and showed them how to use Design Thinking to quickly create imaginative problems to real world problems.What we didn’t know was that in attendance was someone from Smart who was apparently looking for a team to help out on their A week or so after our event, we received an email from Smart asking if someone could drop by the office and when For the past 3 months, we, that’s We’re delighted to have the chance to do this and so happy that we’re spreading the word about UX and Design Thinking to the next generation of people who, in a few years, will be making their own products and experiences. We hope that when they do, they remember the UX  Design Thinking workshop they attended and remember to first understand the person, understand the problem and build a solution that solves it.After spending 6 years working on “campaign based” projects for an agency, it’s these types of make-peoples-lives-better projects that excite me and the rest of the team at On-Off  UXMNL.We’re looking forward to spreading the word further about UX and on July 27, we’re bringing this FREE workshop to companies in Manila and we’re excited to be starting with the awesome Follow @uxmnl on Director of On Off Group. Specialising in Service Design. Website: 

Forecaddying to be exact. A forecaddie doesn’t carry a bag of clubs, but rather stays ahead of a cart-riding, foursome of golfers. His duties consist of finding golf balls, taking pin-distance measurements, cleaning clubs, fetching clubs, bagging clubs, holding clubs, reading putts, and more.This was my job during the latter half of my college years. It is to date, the most arduous hiring process I’ve ever had to go through. There was a 3 part interview - general golf questions, a 30 minute phone interview where the caller would asked questions like, “Have you ever felt the flow?” and “Can you describe an example where you’ve gone above and beyond?” and an on-site group interview at The Ritz-Carlton, Reynolds Plantation Luxury Golf Resort.Forecaddying is all about staying attentive to your golfers’ needs. Each member at the course is treated like a VIP, so the pressure is on big time not to screw up.You typically meet them on the driving range and begin asking questions like “Where are you from?,” “What brings you out here?,” “How often do you golf?,” “What’s your handicap?,” “Would you like me to clean your clubs?,” etc. We call this user research in the design world, but it’s really just asking questions, sincerely listening and paying attention because you actually care.In addition to getting to know the golfers, you have to be able to read them. Their body language, the way they interact with people. Do they seem easy going or are they cussing on the driving range after slicing the ball 100 yards to the right? You have to determine very quickly what type of personality type they are and what type of service they are going to prefer. You find this out more and more with each hole played, but to start with, you’ve got to use your gut. You have to read them and adapt.Some golfers want to know every detail about the hole they are about to play while on the tee box. Others like to figure it out for themselves with only a minimal amount of information. Some golfers like to have their club-face cleaned after every shot and carried back to their bag. Others like to carry it themselves. Most golfers like to know if there are any breaks on the green that aren’t apparent. You have to remember and act on all of this while running through the woods looking for golf balls, stepping off measurements from the nearest yardage-marked sprinkler head, tallying and writing down distances for every player, and running around like a madman albeit composed and confident.Generally there will be one high maintenance golfer, two easy going ones, and one quiet self-sufficient type. You have to adjust your service to fit each one at every aspect during the game. Which one will rake their own bunker? Which one wants you to read their putt, mark their ball, etc.? You strive to make each person happy with your performance because after all, you are working towards that big tip at the end.There are so many variables to process it seems daunting but this is where the “flow” comes in, as the phone interviewer alluded to, so many weeks before.This is no different than our job as designers. We have to understand our users before we can effectively design for them. We need to know what they like, what they don’t like, how they interact, what are their preferences. We parse all of this information to make informed and intuitive decisions regarding interfaces and flows. Just like caddying a round of golf, we start with assumptions about the golfers and refine as the game continues. As we learn more about users, we modify our service for them and begin to relate on a more personal level - from copywriting to interactions and beyond.Many times after finishing a round of golf, I often felt very much connected to the players. It wasn’t uncommon for returning golfers to request caddies they had previously used - friendships were built. We shared stories and experiences together. The golfers trust the caddies because they were extremely knowledgeable about the course and provided paramount service.There was a sign at the caddie office that said “Caring to serve. Driven to be the best.” Although I thought it was incredibly cheesy at the time, this should be no different with all of our digital endeavors.Full stack designer. Specialty in iOS and responsive web design. Father of 4. Currently obsessed with cycling.

Standing between the user’ goal is most of the times, a form. They are the predominant way of interaction on web.We can find different types: Signup forms, application forms, put-your-email here to apply (and receive SPAM for life!). So many forms, to be completed by users that don’t want to waste their time.Users expect quick answers, or we loose them.On Funding Circle, we are working on improving our Borrower experience, rebuilding application forms so borrowers can apply to a loan faster, with less errors, smoothly.So, what have we done so far to improve the user experience on Forms?It’s about content-first, what do we actually need from the user? Don’t ask for information you wont use. Go one-by-one. Do they add a value?Think about the flow from one set of questions to the next (don’t add unnecessary barriers). Establish a conversation, make it feel natural. Organise the information in a way that is easy on the eyes. Clearly define labels, separate information, use white space where it is necessary.Notify users where they are on the progress (specially if it’s a long process!). Add If you already researched and have your personas, call them for testing. How would each of them complete the forms? Each persona has difference behaviors  needs. Observe the pain points. What can you do to make their experience better?40% traffic of our site comes from mobile  tablets. Start mobile and work towards desktop version. With so many devices and screens sizes, site should be responsive at all times.On desktop, forms may appear to require both keyboard and mouse. However, in most cases, they can be completed by using the keyboard with little or no need for the mouse. Using the keyboard instead of the mouse can reduce the need to switch between them and make data-entry Also, users that tend to look at the keyboard while typing (probably less tech savvy), generate more errors.Providing a real-time inline validation can help people complete web forms more quickly and with less effort, fewer errors, and more satisfaction. We are notifing good/wrong validation when the user moves to the next field.Don’t show an error if the user hasn’t started written, you haven’t given the opportunity to type it. It could frustrate the users. Check this great Also, for our one-page-application (+18 fields), we want to apply the errors-only approach (first read on an Implementation appears to be easy. We are looking forwards to plan a usability test before releasing it.Keep and eye on those fields that users get more confused. We have added a tooltip on focus when needed (ONLY when needed, we don’t wont to crump all the design).On mobile, help messages should appear over the input, and be visible when typing.Supporting  encourage messages on the sides, again, they should be there if they provide value (like trust, help). Copy should be concise, easy.To sum up, forms can be complicated, work on UX from the beginning. Work on to keep them clean, grouping important information together, with clear  easy to understand copy. Encourage the user to complete with correct use of validation. Provide help.Most important, evolve and UX and UI Designer  photography lover living in London

In fact, you already feel the impact of UXD by reading this article, which will result in UX (user experience), but what Wiki says about it?Further, some information about UXD for those who is not satisfied by one definition…Every time teams develop a product, app or service, they start by Specific UXD’s list of techniques and tools could be difficult to find. The fact is for each service, product, website, mobile applications, and etc. — You can see the result of UXD in the restaurant. And your tips depend on many factors: location of the place, atmosphere, interior design, music (was it music at all?), menu, how dishes were served and was it delicious?If you came for a coffee and you know that you will come back with friends for dinner next time — a team of Now we can move on to the next article, where I will show you how to do UXD in a real app for iOS.

Kullanıcı Deneyimi Tasarım süreçlerinde kullanılan tekniklerle alakalı uçsuz bucaksız bir liste bulunuyor. Bir projede, projenin ihtiyacı ve kapsamına göre bazen çoğunu, bazen de bir kısmını kullanabiliyoruz.Peki bu tekniklerden hangilerinin ne konuda faydası, ne konuda eksiği olduğuyla alakalı önümüzde bir liste olsa, bu sayede ihtiyaca göre, hangi tekniği nerede kullanabileceğimizi, hangisini o kapsamda değerlendirmemizin zaman kaybı olacağını analiz edebilsek güzel olmaz mı? İşte o “hazine gibi liste”yi sizin için hazırladım. Hazırlamakla kalmadım, bir de sizle paylaşayım dedim.Buyrun:Projenin kapsamını, gereksinimlerini ve risklerini anlamak için, projeye dahil olacak proje sahipleri ile yapılan toplantıyı / görüşmeyi tanımlar.Tüm Proje paydaşlarının bir araya toplandığı, çok daha geniş bir zaman dilimine yayılmış (4 veya 8 saat), projenin daha detaylı bir şekilde tartışılıp, üretimin de beraber yapıldığı zamanı tanımlar.Kullanıcı testi için az ya da hiç bütçe ayrılmamış bir proje yapıyorsanız, o zaman testi gerçekleştireceğiniz kullanıcıları, eş dost çevresinden belirleyip, “hiç yoktan iyidir” dediğiniz, anlık geri bildirimler almanıza yarayan bir tekniktir.Proje senaryosuna göre kurguladığınız ve birçok ihtiyaca cevap verebilecek bir test ortamında, hedef kitlenize göre oluşturduğunuz personaların yer aldığı, ürününüzü son kullanıcıya test ettirebildiğiniz, yukarıdaki test tekniğine göre çok daha bilimsel bir yöntemdir ☺Farklı lokasyonlarda bulunan kullanıcılarla, bir yazılım aracılığıyla yürütülen kullanıcı testidir.Rakiplere ait ürünlerin belirlenmesi ile o ürünlerin, sizin ürününüze göre güçlü ve zayıf yanlarını analiz etme çalışmasıdır.Kullanıcıların bir ürünü veya hizmeti ne şekilde kullandıklarını nicel verilerle analiz etmenin yoludur.Cevaplarını belirlediğiniz soruları, farklı personalara sorma yöntemidir.Kullanıcılara verilen görevlerin, ulaşmaları istenilen hedef doğrultusunda doğru tanımlayabilme yöntemidir.Hedef kitlenizin, ürününüzü kullanırken yaşadığı deneyimin başlangıç ve bitiş noktasına kadar görselleştirilmesidir.Persona, farklı kaynaklardan edinilen karakteristik bilgiler incelenerek belirlenenBilginin, bilgiye ulaşacak kişiler için organize edilmesine ait sürece verilen isimdir.Ürüne ait çözümünüzü, kağıda hızlıca aktardığınız sürece verilen isimdir.Bonus Kaynak: Junior Darth Vader / Head of Production at SHERPABir tasarım stüdyosunun notları

User experience is in a strange stage of its evolutionary cycle. Companies want to get UX into their products. And every day more people shift their focus to UX, trying to break into discipline. I’ve received a series of emails from both UXers, as well as companies, who are looking for clarification on what all the different buzzwords mean so they can portray themselves or the roles they are hiring for more accurately. Both parties need to know what to expect when they are evaluating their needs or opportunities.One of the problems we face is that the various UX roles aren’t specific enough yet to be widely acknowledged as discrete. The various terms are still “differences without distinction” in many people’s eyes. Notice on the Google trends graph “UX Design” is still on a steep climb whereas other possible titles are still on a plateau. “UX Design” didn’t have enough of a presence to be tracked until 2007, and “User Experience Designer” became visible in late 2007. Not surprisingly, Information Architect appears to be on a decline!It might be easier to view these roles not as compartmentalized functions, but as hats that we all wear. Researcher. Information Architect. Interface Designer. Interaction Designer. Visual Designer. UX Designer. A smart person would say Not at all! These are the names of some of the more prominent UX hats that we can all wear. They have fuzzy, gray-area edges. They aren’t formal or official, and I’m certainly not insisting you have a single person for each hat. If your company or project was large enough to justify full-fledge teams, it’s nice to have a person for each hat. But this article isn’t about adding more people, it’s about utilizing the hats in the most efficient way you can.The problem with hats is that there are only so many that can fit on your head at once, and only so many times you can switch hats before you become very inefficient and lose focus. This doesn’t stop people from trying with the best of intentions.I didn’t invent these hats, and I’m not the authority. There are probably some things in here that people will disagree with, and omissions I just forgot. I hope it can act as a good starting point though, and hopefully spur some discussion at your company or right here in the comments section The research hat is focused around identifying the user, their problem/goal, and tying it to the business problem/goal. The job of the UX research hat is to find out what actually occurs in the user’s head, translating that into documentation that everyone can share and validate against. The UX research hat relies on a heuristic process for both the user and the researcher. We learn about them, but we also learn about ourselves and our own assumptions and confirmation bias.Rapid experiments that are conducted without a specific outcome in mind lets both the user and researcher uncover things at the same time. Questions and interviews that are open-ended and unstructured can be very effective, letting the user talk their way through the problem without the interviewer coloring the conversation. No “what is it that you want” questions, but instead “tell me about your experience with this” or “what is this like for you?” If you aren’t familiar with The activities under the research hat can be focused on documenting the user’s behaviors and providing that data back to the team and stakeholders. This can be done through observation, interview, or conducting rapid experiments to quickly validate assumptions while out in the field. What is important is that you bring back enough data to form a common vernacular around the users point of view. It allows that user you have been researching to become a “person” and helps everyone empathize with them a little easier.UX research provides the tangible data and feedback to help everyone stop jumping right to the solution. The biggest value that the research hat delivers is the clarification of the actual user problem that is trying to be solved. Targeted problems cut down on wasted time, unvalidated assumptions, and going down paths that have weak evidence that they are actually solving the Information Architecture (abbreviated as IA), is how you organize information and content. It’s about process and flow, how does the user best get from point A to point B and how the construction of the content facilitates that. This involves determining the relationships between things, recognizing patterns in how the user perceives what is presented, creating a taxonomy, and most of all understanding the feedback loop between the user and the things they interact with. I have often described it as determining “right thing, right place, right time.”The IA hat is the UX equivalent of a real world architect or civil engineer. Is the structure sound? Do the people who use this thing have access to all the right places? Does this layout make sense? Are there any dead-ends we aren’t seeing? Does this creation serve its purpose? Is it safe (usable)? The person in the IA hat is who tells you “You wanted a bridge to accommodate certain needs. Here is how I’ve engineered how it should be put together.”The IA hat delivers some of the most powerful parts in a UX process.I see good IA work as one of the biggest pillars in a smart UX strategy. It’s how the research, or assumptions, are turned into something you can actually start to build. The IA is a huge part of what makes something usable and a good experience. I have a belief that a modern product with good IA but weak UI is better off than something with bad IA and a sexy UI. If you have to pick, go IA over UI.If there is research and IA, the UI hat can be worn with confidence. It is a style of work that will likely be iterating very quickly between the parties, developers and UX both. Changes, tests, modifications and deletions will be happening hourly or faster.This is one of the hats where specific UI experience and talent need to be present in the person who is wearing it. The UI design hat has more gray area than some of the rest. If someone is prepared to wear the UI hat, they might also be a front-end developer, or at least a skilled HTML/CSS author. They are probably one of the primary people who will be designing wireframes as well.The UI designer hat can be technical or non-technical. That is going to be based on the person. Both typesIf the person wearing the UI hat is technically inclined, they can also be providingThe value of UI design is one of the easiest to see. This is because no matter what, everything has some sort interface, no matter how subtle or invisible. Good use of the UI hat will help ensure best practices in UI affordance, provide specific UI to the visual designer hat to be mocked-up, and offload interface decisions from developers who may not be inclined or interested in taking that on. When the UI design is taking place, you are far down the path of creating the things that people see and touch. Stakeholders and test-users will start to get excited. Good research and IA will really make this a very productive time.Interaction design (IxD) is how you determine the behavior of your product and how the IxD is where your behavior feedback loop is traced. It can show you how close you are to bridging the gap between the business problem and the user problem. It’s a hard job, and getting it done right brings immense value.This is the hat we all know and love. Finally something we can see and feel. The impact the visual design hat is “hard to define, but easy to recognize.” It also the most abused hat, often given the most focus and energy to applying And let’s be honest — there is nothing wrong with sexiness if it’s not veneer. If the others hats have delivered their value, the visuals can take a product to the next level. You can’t over-estimate the power of the visual layer when it is accompanied by good UX.Visuals are important. Your book will always be judged by its cover.This hat brings cohesion between all the hats. With any project, the UX efforts have to be coordinated and flow from one to the other. Someone has to have a high level view of the entire battlefield. Needs have to be assessed, plans created, priorities made. UX doesn’t take place in a vacuum, and with the amount of points that UX touches, there is communication that has to take place between various other disciplines and parts of a company. Product management, development, QA, middle management, executives — they all have different needs for UX communication and documentation.It’s hard to pin down exactly what this UXer is actually called. In some cases, they are on a management level. In others, they might be on the individual contributor level. Either way, someone is going to end up wearing this hat. Depending on who you are or where you work, the UX hat-wearer can be known as “UX (or) Experience:There is not a true UX Designer hat. If someone is a UX Designer, his or her role translates to “I wear whichever hat is needed at the time.” If a UX designer is working alone, they will have to move from hat to hat depending on what is needed at the time. This doesn’t mean that the UX person isn’t highly skilled wearing one or all the hats. But in the real world of business and shipping product, things move too fast for a UX generalist to cover all the hats comprehensively.Having someone who manages the UX effort is essential. Again, this doesn’t mean they have to be in a personnel management or supervisor position. It just means that there is a knowledgeable and experienced individual that is at the helm of the UX effort. Also, I would always advise against filling a UX management or supervisor position with someone who isn’t experienced and able to augment or take on any role at any moment. UX is a craft, and it needs to be guided by someone who has fundamental knowledge of all the pieces. Just because you drive a Camry and have seen Days of Thunder doesn’t mean you stand a chance in a NASCAR race.You don’t always need all the hats. Hats can be moved, put down, or saved for later. It isn’t always smart to split out the roles and blow your budgets or headcount. Prioritize, and keep in mind that wireframes and visuals usually aren’t the biggest levers if you’re trying to improve a user’s experience. If I had to pick, I would focus on getting user-centered problems researched and an effective persona created, and then shift into information architecture now that you have a rational basis.The best work comes from ensembles. This is a collaborative and cooperative line of work. For companies or projects that need to get a UX base established, hire a few generalists. People who know how to wear each hat, and can pass the ball from one to the other. Look for people who care about what they do first, level of skill second. No matter how you want to approach it, know what the hats and what they mean. The purpose of UX is to ultimately solve business and human problems. Know which problem you’re trying to solve, and which UX hat targets what you need.

Mais um post da série “Em paralelo ao idioma, existe o processo de adaptação ao jeito que os americanos trabalham. Novamente: este artigo fala especificamente sobre as agências nos EUA, que são bem diferentes das agências inglesas, alemãs, australianas, canadenses.O ritmo de trabalho é diferente, e arrisco dizer que um pouco menos puxado do que no Brasil. Há alguns motivos para isso: A dica para os brasileiros que chegam para trabalhar nesse novo ambiente é, obviamente, Aqui um ponto importante é A dica aqui é Leia também:Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

A short talk at Web Summit Dublin 2014I just returned from I was invited to be part of a panel about the In the same bucket, this means everything from your Tesla making itself smarter over-the-air, to the As user experience designers, we have a responsibility to provide While connected devices have been around for a while, what’s revolutionary at the moment is how affordable and nearly invisible they’ve become. Products like Belkin’s Is total invisibility always a good thing? Or do we as designers need to consider the need for a visual distinction between so-called “smart devices” and everyday objects?Take the Webcam that might be sitting right in front of you on your laptop, a nearly invisible black dot. When it’s on and streaming your image to someone, a little green light turns on— a design decision meant to protect your privacy.Connected devices mean that our once commonplace objects now have the potential to be infinitely connected to anything and everything on the Internet—social networks, search engines, and other devices.The potential of that connectivity is exciting and no doubt companies will be making it easier and more seamless to connect them, possibly as easily as how we click “Connect with Facebook” to tie together all your software services today.In the process of making Internet of Things objects easy to connect and set up, it may be helpful to recognize the distinction between three levels of privacy — the SWhile many Internet of Things devices are marketed for individual benefit (convenience, cost and sustainability, for example), the data they generate can have a broader value to society. Consider government and local utilities trying to better understand behavior patterns affecting power usage to optimize the efficiency of the power grid.In the software world, many of us have signed legal contracts to share our data in exchange for services, whether we’re fully conscious of it or not.Due to the sensitivity of tracking our actions and behaviors in the physical world, we have to be transparent about any intentions of using data for anything other than the end user’s benefit.Instead, companies need to consider creative ways of incentivizing someone to pro-actively opt-in to share their data for the greater good, whether by making its group benefit clear, or even offering the customer more tangible incentives for sharing (such as cold cash, in some cases, as The personal account of Ron Goldin. UX Designer, Creative Director, Entrepreneur, Technologist. Founder of Akko and Artifacts. Work at 

To be clear, I don’t think efforts are purposely being made to devalue UX, per se. But, there’s a damn good feeling that it’s not respected. So let’s talk about it. To some, UX is in the way. Those are the folks who think they are running the perfect web presence. It’s a pride issue. It’s a matter of feeling disrespected. Understandable to a certain extent but simply put, get over yourselves. Your opinions are worth nothing. Zero. Zilch. You are minimal compared to the swarms of great customers you could gain with a better experience. Solid UX Professionals aren’t telling you how to do your job. No one is telling you how to sell your products, subscriptions or content but rather how to sell your things in a Senior Interaction Designer 

What does it take to replace 7,000 payphones in NYC with a new, tech-savvy version that makes all domestic calls free, provides gratis WiFi for everyone, a USB charging station, and more perks? A partnership between Control Group, an interactive design and technology agency, and other businesses in New York City, focused on revamping the old guard of the ubiquitous payphones all around the city.Control Group’s project envisions delivering the fastest and largest public WiFi network on the planet, funded by advertising revenue on the side panels of the kiosks (which means that the project won’t require taxpayer funding). In addition to allowing pedestrians to make free phone calls within the U.S., charge their devices and use the internet, these new stations will connect people with civil services, like 311 and quick access to 911. According to Control Group founding partner Colin O’Donnell at IWNY this year, “Much or at least half of the revenue [these kiosks] generate goes back to city, making this a feel-good cash-positive project for the City of New York.”Even better, he says, the new phone stalls will reduce clutter on the street because they have a smaller footprint than the old payphones. The kiosks will have end-to-end encryption, meaning that none of the traffic going back and forth should be readable by any third parties, and the devices will be modular so that they can be easily upgraded as new technology comes to the market over the years.

As a User Experience-focused designer, you should uphold these values in order to create products that delight users.Interview users and listen to their frustrations empathetically—this sort of discovery process can be informal.Discovery sessions are for listening, not proposing solutions. A good UX designer listens like a friend hearing someone else vent after a long day.There’s more value in talking to end users than stakeholders. What the client may envision isn’t necessarily what their audience needs.Use logic first, but have an open mind. Always ask yourself Be prepared to challenge expectations. Stakeholders and users might expect one thing, but might actually need something else entirely. A UX designer is a problem-solver; always think about the best solution.Designing a solution means creating and delivering the single best way of solving users’ problems.Part of your process will include experimenting and testing different options, which help you arrive at the best possible solution. Think of those options as mile markers that get you to your end solution rather than a part of what you deliver. When you present two or three different options, you’re saying you’re not confident in providing a solution—you’re only doing half the work.The client or stakeholders shouldn’t be allowed to pick any arbitrary option they like best. Through research, testing, logic, and data, identify and present the true solution as the only option.Your work doesn’t end when development begins. Actively stay involved and ensure the vision ends up as the final product — collaborate with others working on the project. Test features and collect feedback constantly.It should go without saying that the project team needs to understand UX-related goals and audience needs. Others on the team won’t go out of their way to meet with UX designers since they’re focused on completing their part of the project; it’s your responsibility as the UX designer to enforce communication. Don’t blame a developer if your vision isn’t carried out when you didn’t communicate.You, the expert, took the time to create and present a logical, well-documented solution, and you have an intimate knowledge of your audience’s problems, behaviors, and needs. When it’s necessary, defend what you created when it’s inevitably questioned or challenged.When you present your solution, arm yourself with data and concrete explanations for every decision and idea. Use the You’ll still need an open mind at every moment—that certainly applies when listening to stakeholder feedback—but you need to demonstrate that you’ve thought through your solution entirely. (You have, haven’t you?)UX 

Com o Grande parte desses profissionais são provenientes do mundo de Acontece que essa mudança é muito mais complexa do que simplesmente uma atualização no nome do cargo no Linkedin. Afinal, mudar o nome do cargo não te transforma automaticamente em uma coisa que você não é, sem que haja algum tipo de treinamento formal ou informal, experiência de trabalho, tentativa e erro, ou seja o que for.Essa transição requer também Vamos a algumas delas:Designers de interface têm uma mente extremamente afiada para pensar em pixels e harmonia visual. Espaçamentos, tamanhos de fonte, respiro, tipografia, cores, formas geométricas, alinhamento, leis da Gestalt — são várias micro-disciplinas dentro de uma só, e os vários anos trabalhando com Mas quando você passa a trabalhar com Um ponto positivo é que você vai continuar pensando nas interações que o usuário terá com a interface — já que essa é uma área em que normalmente os Será que você conseguirá se afastar desse tipo de decisão (cores, tipografia, layout, espaçamento) e deixar que outro profissional fique responsável por elas? Será que não estar diretamente envolvido nessa parte do processo vai te dar mais prazer do que continuar em UI?Uma outra mudança de paradigma é no quanto tempo você vai passar dedicado a pensar nas interfaces do produto que está criando.Já os Em projetos mais robustos e complexos, o O quanto você está disposto a se afastar da interface? Você se sentirá confortável em passar menos de metade do dia com softwares gráficos abertos no seu computador — e muito mais tempo preenchendo planilhas do Excel, desenhando fluxos com caixas e setas, respondendo emails e conversando com usuários (muitas vezes bem longe da tela do computador)?Quando você passa a assumir um papel de O quão boas são suas habilidades com números? Quão afiadas são suas habilidades analíticas? O quão organizado você é? Quão paciente você é para analisar com cuidado e calma um problema, antes de começar a pensar nas soluções para ele?Em muitos momentos do projeto, os Quando você faz a transição para se tornar um O quão boas são suas habilidades de argumentação e defesa de ideias? O quão disposto você está a transitar com mais fluidez entre várias outras disciplinas, ao invés de continuar sentado em sua mesa refinando a solução visual do produto? O quanto o processo te empolga mais do que o resultado final?À primeira vista essas perguntas todas acima podem parecer um pouco desencorajadoras, mas reflexões são sempre um mal necessário. A possibilidade de seguir um rumo diferente na carreira pode ser empolgante por um lado, mas é preciso considerar com responsabilidade qual a real implicação dessa mudança na sua rotina. Por um mercado onde profissionais reflitam com um pouco mais de profundidade sobre o que fazem, sobre o que gostam, e sobre o que prometem em seus perfis do Linkedin.Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

Awesome news, I cant wait to see the UX design! ☺Online #Content Creator with 5 Years of Experience in #Marketing #PR #SEO #SocialMedia  #MassCommunication

Outro dia surgiu essa discussão aqui na agência: qual o melhor termo a ser usado em cada situação? O termo “usuário” era (e ainda é) muito usado em produtoras de softwares e de interfaces digitais, e acabou sendo escolhido para cunhar a expressão “Funcionava muito bem quando os UXs e AIs planejavam experiências apenas para web e dispositivos móveis. A partir do momento em que as campanhas publicitárias, produtos e serviços começam a transpor os limites da internet e funcionar de forma integrada entre diversas mídias, o termo “usuário” passa a soar um pouco estranho.Em uma profissão (e época) onde se tornou essencial entender “de onde vem” e “para onde vai” o consumidor ao interagir com algum dos pontos de contato da empresa, essa discussão talvez deixe de ser puramente semântica e passe a ser importante para definir a forma como você enxerga esse indivíduo.Algumas empresas e agências já estão retirando o “User” do “User Experience Design”, e tratando essa experiência como algo único e integrado entre diversas plataformas. Por mais que muitas vezes acabemos desenvolvendo sites a maior parte do tempo, é importante ter sempre em mente que o “site” é só uma das peças dentro do universo da experiência do consumidor. E que desenvolvendo um site você está contribuindo para a experiência inteira – e não só para os cinco minutos onde esse consumidor se torna um “usuário”.Se está na hora de mudar o job description ou não, você decide. Para mim, a discussão em si é tão importante quanto “arroz por cima do feijão ou feijão por cima do arroz”. Talvez menos.Só para confundir mais um pouco a validade da expressão User Experience Design, recomendo: “Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

I’ve spent the last 3 months interning for the User Experience (UX)  Design team at DOOR3, my first stint as a UX Designer. My time here has proven to be crucial as I’m getting my feet wet in a new industry.In my previous life, I was a social media strategist at a digital agency, but two years ago I decided to go back to school. I had an urge to be on the side of making and breaking things in the digital world.My two years at NYU’s Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP) has taught me a lot about the intersection of design, media, art and technology. You could say I started to become a more “T-Shaped” individual since I picked up a broad skill-set, but I lacked depth in a specific field. I chose the path of a UX Designer (Interaction Designer) to apply my newly acquired skills in creating solutions for the ever-increasing world of digital products we use on a daily basis.Like the first time you experience pretty much anything — a restaurant, a city, or a mobile app — entering a new industry can be exciting and equally daunting. First impressions can be lasting, causing you to quickly write off a restaurant or uninstall that new app you just downloaded. So, first-time user experiences (FUX) are an integral part of any user experience journey, and my first-time experience with UX Design has been no different. Below I compare basic FUX tips with my first-time experience as a UX Designer.My first stint as a UX Designer has strengthened what I learned at school. I’m not just talking about increasing my familiarity with design methodologies or software, but more of my soft skills: collaboration, adaptability, empathy, learning to learn. I believe these are all crucial for any professional, even more so for a UX Designer.Whatever comes next seems a little less daunting, and incredibly exciting.We design and build interactive applications for Web, Social and Mobile media that create new opportunities and results for our clients.

What does a User Experience Designer do from 9 to 5? Well, a lot of stuff. The list below aggregates most common methods and deliverables produced by UX Designers as they craft amazing experiences for other people.For each item on the list you’ll see additional links with some of the best practices available in the industry. Don’t take it for granted, though. Being able to reshape these methods on the go is a pretty persistent ability in some of the best UX Designers we know.A panel of people discussing a specific topic or question. Teaches about the users’ feelings, opinions and even language. Useful when the target audience is new or unknown for the team. Questions that provide numbers as result. Quick and unexpensive way of measuring user satisfaction and collecting feedback about the product. It could indicate the need for a deeper qualitative test. An one-to-one interview research in which the user is asked to perform a series of tasks in a prototype or a product. Validates and collects feedback of flows, design and features. A technique that consists in asking users to group content and functionalities into open or closed categories. Gives you input on content hierarchy, organization and flow. Offering alternative versions of your product to different users and comparing the results to find out which one performs better. Great for optimizing funnels and landing pages. A technology that analyzes the user’s eye movements across the interface. Provides data about what keeps users interested on the screen and how their reading flow could be optmized by design. A study to measure if the website can be used by everyone, including users with special needs. It should follow the W3C guidelines to make sure that all users are satisfied. UI/UX Designer  Web Developer

Africa has certainly not been left behind by the increasing pervasiveness of UX in digital design. One good example is One such hub is the User experience practice is still quite underdeveloped in Africa with very few learning institutions teaching it as a dedicated discipline. There is also a great deal of resistance from higher management, especially in small to medium sized businesses. They require a concrete understanding of the field first before inviting conversations on how to better their product offerings. This process of education and engagement with UX takes a long time as you can imagine. Thankfully, Africa can look at similar paths taken in countries that now have a more mature design ecosystem.In 2013, I was commissioned to conduct some research on banking products and services in Johannesburg. I found that users could not even complete simple banking interactions without experiencing severe frustration. Many changes were made based on the research. I recently revisited the participants of the study and found that many of the processes had been simplified and unnecessary interactions eliminated. Customers were happier and more willing to remain with the bank. Commitment to the iterative improvement of experiences as demonstrated by this African bank will only go on to strengthen their commercial success and improve the real lives of people in Africa.It has been estimated by bodies like HFI (This article was written for and originally appeared on UX Design Research Enthusiast UK/Nairobi, Visual Designer, Brand Artist, Explorer, Avid Reader... Constantly on the move....

User Experience (UX), a term coined by Don Norman, founder of The fun thing about UX is that, like a lot of things, it is always evolving. Like many neighborhoods, venues or even buildings, they are containers. They hold pieces that make up that establishment. I think of UX as a village and the disciplines as the people.Senior Interaction Designer 

A few months ago, I finally switched over from an Android phone to an iPhone. This was supposed to be a trial — I was no longer happy with my older, laggy Droid Razr Maxx, got really burned by the short battery life of an old Galaxy Nexus, and found access to a used iPhone 4S. I’ve resisted getting an iPhone for many years now, but after using the iPhone, it’s hard to go back.There are endless articles out there about the differences between Android and iOS. Instead of focusing on specs or specific features, I thought it might be more helpful for me to highlight some of the “personas” (to borrow the UX term) who might be interested in each.First, I have to caveat my Android experiences by saying that the phones I was using were older and less powerful than the phones of today. I’m betting that some general themes about Android have remained consistent over the years, however.Android is obviously well-integrated with Google products. The one way in which my Android experience completely crushed my iPhone experience was with Gmail. Checking my Gmail inboxes (both personal and work accounts) was seamless on Android using the native Gmail app, while on the iPhone I’ve already tried a few different apps, none of which are great (including the official Gmail app).In addition to easy Gmail access, you also get very simple contact syncing, easier access to your Google Drive, a slightly more powerful Google Now, and other small integrations with Google products. I used so many Google products already, and my Android was a great portal to those products.Android is also great for more targeted and conscientious phone users, users who know what they want to do and don’t spend a lot of time wandering from app to app. This point is kind of tongue-in-cheek, as it means that I found that my Android phones had more limited processing capabilities and couldn’t multitask as well.If I ever wanted to do just one thing, like check my email, make a call, or look something up online, that would work fine. As soon as I tried to do many things in a row with apps running in the background, my phone would lag noticeably, and apps would occassionally crash. There are dozens of task manager apps, task cleanup apps, and battery management apps out there for Android, which might speak to how widespread this problem is.Android phones are more customizable than iPhones. For the home screens, there are all kinds of widgets that are almost substitutes for full-fledged apps. Instead of the native weather app on the iPhone, for example, the Android has a weather widget that will just live on your home screen, always open.Another cool point of customizability which iOS is only now starting to catch up to is the keyboard. There are lots of keyboard apps in the Google Play store, which range from smart keyboards that use your typing history to help text completion, to keyboards with For those who are really into tinkering, it’s possible to root your Android and gain master privileges over even more aspects of your phone. There’s a large community out there tinkering with all models of Androids, and it’s easy to find instructions online about how to root your phone. Rooting opens up access to all kinds of other apps and hacks, so Android is great for more tech-inclined users who want to explore the limits of their phone’s capabilities.If you like apps, iOS has a much wider selection of apps. Many apps are iOS only, and many more apps come out first for iOS and only later for Android. Also note that often the same app will be designed slightly differently for iOS versus Android, to accommodate each system’s capabilities. For all the apps I use, except for the Gmail app, the iOS version of the app is at least as good as, if not better than, the Android version.As a converse to the corresponding Android point above, the iPhone is much better able to handle multitasking. Having many apps open in the background doesn’t seem to impact the performance of the phone at all, except for possibly a slightly faster battery drain. Also, when an app crashes (which is a rarer occurrence than on Android), the operating system gracefully isolates the crash to just that app, and I can just try to restart that app. On the Android, if one app crashed, there was a chance that the whole phone would get laggy or that the home screen would freeze as well, necessitating a restart.The combination of the above points has led me to use many more apps much more frequently on my iPhone than I ever did on my Android. My iPhone, though from the same generation as my Android phones, is much better able to handle having more apps installed, opening apps quickly, keeping apps in the background, and managing the intersection of apps (e.g. when I’m listening to music and the phone rings). The iPhone wins, hands-down, on the overall app experience.There is no doubt that Apple is obsessed with the design and user experience of its products, and the iPhone continues to be a very sleek and easy-to-use product thanks to that. What iOS lacks in customizability, it makes up for in terms of being much more straightforward and worry-free. Battery management apps? The iPhone doesn’t need it because it already does it as best as possible behind the scenes. Widgets on your home screens? Nope, don’t worry about that clutter, just pop open apps when you need them.Operating system updates are also handled a lot more gracefully for the iPhone than for Android phones. When a new version of iOS comes out, it pretty quickly becomes available for download on all iPhones, including older models. The iOS will alert you to this and encourage you to upgrade. With Android, it was always a guessing game as to whether a new version would be available for your model, and if so, whether that version would be downloadable six months from now, a year from now, or even later.The iPhone has a bunch of smaller features that just make many other experiences a lot more enjoyable for users. For instance, text messages all get funneled through Apple’s iMessage, which allows for transmitting texts via data connection and not your traditional SMS, and also allows for free group text messaging (try to loop an Android user into a group iMessage, however, and they’ll quickly tell you to stop, before you use up all of their picture texts). As another example, you also have a Control Center, where you can easily toggle system-wide options like Wi-fi and airplane mode, pop open common apps like the flashlight or the calculator, as well as control any media that’s currently playing.Overall, I’ve completely gone from the Android camp to the iPhone camp. Although I like the customizability and better integration with Google products, Android phones have just been slightly less reliable in my experience. I also rarely actually get around to spending lots of time customizing or tinkering around with my Android phones. iPhones, on the other hand, are just incredibly 

Earlier this week I attended the RE:DESIGN/UXD conference in Brooklyn. The event was packed with prominent speakers from the likes of Razorfish, Rosenfeld Media, General Assembly, Etsy, and LinkedIn, speaking on topics as diverse as “Better Living Through Sensors and Devices” and “There is No Such Thing as Mistakes: Surprising Insights from Jazz Improvisation”. Stepping off the train in NYC early Monday morning, I was excited to embark on what would be two days of firsts for me:There was one first I wasn’t quite expecting, though. By the end of the conference, it was also the first time I realized a lot of the lessons we’re being taught about user experience are being disseminated in a bubble. The unfortunate fact is the professional landscape in which some of these strategies exist isn’t found in the world that most designers live in. The way we share our ideas and frame the conversation around UX feels as though sometimes it’s described in an organizational utopia, where everybody gets along, everybody shares the same vision, and everybody is given the chance to affect change within their organization. As we know all too well, this is not a position in which the majority of designers find themselves.To understand this better, let’s take a look at businesses that typically embrace UX:Startups.Startups are the most conducive environments to foster optimal UX principles. Why? They have the benefit of building something brand-new from the bottom up; they can embed these principles deep within the roots of their business, from the CEO down to the last employee hired. They can foster a culture of awareness and agility. They can hire team members that share a core set of values. Perhaps, most importantly, they’re not chained to a backlog of structure and hierarchy.However, things get I had an interesting conversation at RE:DESIGN with two designers who described an environment that is all too common for design teams: unreasonable deadlines, last-minute requests, obstructive management, and a general lack of understanding regarding the importance of UX principles in design. There’s no time for wireframes; prototyping is non-existent; user studies aren’t in the budget or timeline. In my experience, and in that of countless designers I’ve spoken with, this is the rule, not the exception; there’s only so much change we can affect from the bottom up. The root of the problem can be found in the need for a cultural shift within an already well-established paradigm, and a lot of these organizations simply aren’t prepared for that.We need a way of approaching UX that considers the challenges most designers outside of Silicon Valley face everyday. Let’s assume it’s not a perfect world. If we can approach how we talk about UX from these less-than-ideal conditions, we can better transition antiquated, stubborn organizations into this new era of design. Of course, there will be roadblocks in most cases, and the pain points will be often and many. But if we can better equip ourselves for instituting changes that many view with fear and trepidation, then perhaps we’ll have the confidence to continue trying not in spite of these obstacles, but because they still exist.Designing experiences at Think Brownstone

Mental models are a persons beliefs of an interface and how to use it. Its the conundrum of beliefs vs. facts. How and what a customer uses on your site and application reflects past mental models and experiences.Mental models are often the reason for ambiguity in an applications UX. Many applications provide inconsistant layouts, high cognitive load, and loosely defined design patterns. The key to a solid mental model is consistency. Consistency will add value to the overall user experience of your product.A simple example can be found in the most mundane of places: Whats the difference between Apply Changes, Save, Accept, Ok, and Yes? When clicking on a button that says Apply Changes should I remain on the screen, with the choice to editing more preferences? Or should I be taken back into the application to proceed onward with my task? When clicking a button that says Save — Will these changes be saved permanently or just during this session? Define your communication tone. Choose consistent visual elements (buttons, checkboxes, form fields) and copy. Your communication should be explicit. Explicit communication provides both new and power users the confidence that they are in control of your application.Other areas that affect mental models are zonal placement for navigation, typography, alignment, whitespace and CTAs. All of these areas subconsciously communicate to your customer. Consistency in these areas create a Let me hear your thoughts, opinions - Follow me Product Designer at Pivotal Labs

If you want to be a good User Experience Designer or a client of good User Experience Designer, try to think about your job or find someone who thinks about his/her job.The following parts describe how I think about my design process in general. Feel free to follow, comment or improve it. Steps are not necessary linear and in this order, but how every designer says: “It depends.” and it really depends on your project.A responsible designer should always check the status of your application and related business. This is often made by annoying questions — typically a lot of “Why?” But don’t be afraid. A good designer helps you find the right answers.Read my I present you and your business via the application to target users so I need to understand you. I ask questions, but also listen and watch. I prefer to arrange meeting in the client’s office to feel the spirit of the company. This is the part with an overlap into business analysis, because design should support your business.Now it is time for users. It can be complete research, analytics, interview, support tickets, user testing and other sources directly related to users.I don’t choose the easiest way without doubts. I am not afraid to come with new ideas or arguments and validate them with stakeholders. I use the appropriate fidelity of the prototype from sketches to interactive HTML prototypes.You are the one who understands your field of business. Designers can work for you, but I work with you and your team e.g. on design workshops.You will probably never get the best design at first try. A good designer knows it and offers you interactive work. In a first design meeting I typically prepare very general prototypes — concepts just to have something to talk about, because many ideas come with first design.During a design process you get comments about each part of my job. It can be personal or remote one, but you will always know what is going to happen and why. I explain designs and answer to all your questions, because a good designer knows what to design and why.I prefer to be a part of the whole development process. I discuss often with developers and visual designers to get the right result.UX Agency Owner and Designer at 

I grew up on a farm in the middle of the Canadian prairie’s where we had 3 television channels (all of them fuzzy) and a party line for our telephone. For those too young to understand a party line is where there are multiple people on a single phone line all with differentiating rings. Odd to think that was not that long ago. I often reflect on this when people ask me how to get into my field. I currently work as a User Experience Director for Electronic Arts and have worked with clients like Mercedes-Benz, Warner Bros. and Nike on digital interaction with their costumers. My job is awesome. I get to make video games for sports. How awesome is that? Not only do I get to talk to other people who are passionate about sports and video games, but I get to make their experience more enjoyable. Because of my current position I am constantly asked how to get into UX so I thought I would put down a few things to help people steer themselves towards a career in UX.I have found there are three main areas that I end up talking about when advising how to get into user experience. There is a lot to these areas and I could probably write and article on each one but for the sake of simplicity I will try to keep this high level. We are going to look at:1. Education and Networks2. Experience and Specialization3. People and RelationshipsBut first here is a bit of background.For the most part UX is a new field with deep roots from human factors and ergonomics, which have been focused on the interaction between human users and machines since the 1940’s. It wasn’t till the early 1990’s however, with the proliferation of workplace computers, that User Experience became a important concern for designers. Don Norman coined the term and brought it to a wider audience. The last 10 years has seen an explosion of interfaces and tech and with that a realization that users are the most important part of making a product successful.As soon as I say that I work in the games industry, or digital advertising, people automatically assume that I am a developer. For the most part there is a wide assumption out there that everyone who works with computers is a coder. In the past this might have been true but now the industry has diversified to a point where a low-tech farm kid with a degree in Sociology can work (and make a difference) in technology industry. The realization that you don’t need a huge education in Computer Science to work in this industry is often a stumbling block. How I got into this industry and where I am today comes down to 4 simple words: Education is an essential. This does not have to be stated. You have to know all the key concepts and processes. This pretty much applies to any job. The contentious issue for UX is how one goes about getting that education. Because this discipline is still in its infancy, currently there are very few post secondary courses available specifically for UX. Many of the top professionals are self taught and moved over from complementary disciplines. There are more and more programs popping up however but I have been finding in interviews that many of these programs are very general in nature and have very little real world connections. Some of the best I have dealt with however are Simon Fraser University’s Interactive Arts  Technology Bachelor program and Bentley University’s Human Factors In Information Design program.Besides going back to school there are a myriad of things you can do and should continue to do even when you are established. First and foremost is There is also an amazing UX community out there and User Experience has a low barrier of entry for someone who has some experience working on a software project (web, mobile, product or something else) and often if you are in a digital field moving to UX is easy because there is a previous understanding of the process and UX can be somewhat of a generalist role. Someone moving from this point will have access to a real project that you can gain experience in applying UX techniques or have been involved in some UX decisions that they can reference. If you don’t have any previous digital experience then start working. Create websites for yourself or friends. Volunteer for non-profits. Do some freelance work. You want to start to build a portfolio of work that you can showcase. Learn a variety of tools as well such as Omnigraffle and Axure. Most of these programs have free trials and tutorials. Looking for internships is also an avenue for getting your foot in the door. Basically you need to take your time and practice. Learn and practice go had in hand.UX is also a broad field and you might want to specialize in a specific area whether its information architecture, interaction design, content strategy  copy writing, analysis, user research, or usability testing. Creating a focus in your studies and resume will help separate you from the unwashed masses. I started with information architecture and interaction design and lately I have been focused on process development and strategy.You will work with a wide variety of people in this role, and learning how to communicate is a huge part of being successful. Because UX touches all parts of the project, one minute you will be chatting with a PM about time lines, and the next you will be discussing how a screen should work with a Software Engineer. Learning how to interact with these two very different personalities and how to communicate complex ideas and information to a diverse group of individuals defines (for me anyway) a good UX professional from a weak one. UX is collaborative. You need to not only communicate your ideas to PM’s, Producers, Designers, Account Managers, Client, Web Developers and App Developers you must also take advice, criticism and answer a wide variety of questions from a very different points of view. Developing solid relationships with your entire team means you are learning from them and they are learning from you. It makes the workplace much more pleasurable and everyone working towards a common goal.All you have to do to start is put a hand up and say ‘I can do that’. After that read, go to school (if you want to) and connect to the community. Practice your skills and learn the process, all the while working on communication and collaboration and you will be well on your way to a really fun, interesting and rewarding career. I hope this helps you and please feel reach out should you have any questions and I will make an effort to answer to the best of my abilities.UX Director @ EA for UFC and NHL. Cylcing, hockey, snowboarding and nerd stuff. Follow me at 

Inconsistency in your design makes it hard for visitors to get the information they want and leave. More time spent on figuring out your site’s behavior means lesser time focusing on your content.Just like any user experience design optimization you do, getting your users well acquainted with how your site behaves by having a consistent design will pay off big time. Your meaning is easily conveyed and the information is easily digested by your visitors.Software, technology, design, user experience war stories, and moreA series on user experience design

I think “User Experience is not only the design process, it is actually the methodology/strategy which we should follow throughout the length and breadth of project and which involves all the stake holders”. I had recently gone through a nice banner designed by I m a designer, I design things, experiences, interactions as simple as I could. I believe simple is accommodative, adaptive, universal, intuitive and natural.

What defines a good user experience? For most products, it consists of 4 things:One example of an app we made that combines these characteristics is called Food Radar. At Konsult, we created Food Radar for a client to give people real-time, no-brainer, curated food recommendations during the World Cup in Rio de Janeiro.The main focus of Food Radar was We wanted users to make a decision fast, instead of experience choice-paralysis that’s common to yelpers. We only presented the most vital information: one restaurant, food pictures, location, opening hours, and what makes this restaurant special. This allowed the user to decide with better With a bright and high contrast palette, Food Radar evokes Lastly, Food Radar needed be flexible enough for However, there are times where a joyful, powerful, efficient, and simple product is not neccessarily the pinnacle of good UX. Which characteristics contribute to good UX depend a lot on your users’ needs.A client of Konsult wanted to help family members of a deceased person in hospice care. Someone is told that their loved one has died, then has a very limited time to find a cremation service. These people are shocked, emotionally compromised, and usually financially struggling. We needed to design for a vital function in a sensitive environment. These are the traits we want our product to have:Because of our users’ emotional state, we decided that the best design should be neutral and simple.A product can also take an unconventional direction in emotion, power, efficiency, or simplicity to capture untapped user demographics. StoqUp is one of Konsult’s projects where our client wanted to challenge the conventional perception of the stock market. Traditional stock apps are serious investment tools that focus on monetary gain and personal wealth. StoqUp aims to be a collaborative learning environment, where it tracks your understanding of the market over time, and friends can collaborate and compete against each other. It’s like a wellness tracking app, but for your knowledge of stocks.This was part 4 in a series about how to create kick-ass products. Here are the other parts:orDigital adventurer in design, engineering, and startups. 

Haftalık derlenen UX ve UI tasarım notları. UX süreçleri, araçları, tasarım fikirleri.UI designer, developer. Co-founder of Haftalık derlenen UX ve UI tasarım notları. UX süreçleri, araçları, tasarım fikirleri.

When you’re looking to get hired, you can find plenty of resources out there telling you how to write an interesting and engaging CV. But for UX designers the situation is perhaps the opposite: the biggest problem is that recruiters often struggle with writing an engaging job advert, which makes it much harder for them to attract great designers.I face poor quality job adverts much too frequently. So for the benefit of my fellow UX designers, here’s some advice and tips to help you put out better and more engaging UX designer job adverts.The job of a UX designer is a pretty cool one. We’re facing and solving interesting problems every day — and since many businesses are starting to see the value of strong UX design, many of us are not short of job offers either. Many UX designers are fairly easy to find and approach, since we already have a portfolio page, Twitter, LinkedIn (and perhaps Having received my fair share of job offers, it’s pretty clear that most people are brainlessly copying their “UX designer” job description from somewhere else, without really understanding the product: the UX designer. So, try to avoid making a few of these elementary mistakes…Please, do not ask for Photoshop, Illustrator or specific software knowledge. First of all, Sure, nice, catchy words can sometimes grab our attention, but if you’re going to use them, they should contain real information rather than empty clichés.Show us the real work environment. I know, you’re very busy and you want to reach as many candidates as you possibly can. But hey, Please, Let’s approach the problem as if it’s a UX problem, since it’s our (UX designer’s) bad experience with the recruiting process that we’re trying to solve. I want to give you an idea about what a UX designer looks like, so you can understand better how these mythical “UX designer” creatures think.In talking to several designers and keeping my eye on UX design “market” it seems pretty clear to me that most UX designers share several common habits and ways of thinking.Hopefully these characteristics give you a better picture of the kind of people you’re looking to appeal to.Move away from the usual (overused, boring disengaging!) job description and design a new one from the ground up which will attract UX designers. This requires a bit more work, but I guarantee it will work much better than your old, crappy, copy-pasted template. Here’s the way I think it should be approached:The aim is to keep everything focused and avoid excessive bullet-pointing. Don’t forget: we don’t mind if the job description is above 1 or 2 pages, as long as the information in it is clear. It needs to be engaging, attractive and descriptive. We also don’t mind if the job description is not in the form of a .pdf or .doc file (actually we’d much rather see people avoid using those formats) — If you are not entirely sure if your job advert is engaging enough, feel free to drop an email to UX Designer @ Hanno — I build products.Designing the world we want to live in. Here’s how our remote, self-managed team 

And the winner is…__________!Over the weekend I was watching the mouth watering Gordon Ramsay’s UK TV series of hunt for the best restaurant and obviously the chef.Being a foodie and coming from a country like India that has 1000s of delicacies to enjoy, I was enlightened that the UX soul in me always tends to think like a Chef!While I was keen watching the competitive show, I realized, the chef cooks and follows steps similar to what a UXer designs and follows. I also understood that not only design is a mix of art and science but even cooking too is a mix of both. Certain steps have to be followed sequentially in a logical and timely manner to get the best experience from the end product!While it is an axiom that, to be a good chef you need to experiment and taste finest food, similarly, a good UX designer has to experiment and observe finest designs.Let us try to understand how a talented UX designer and an adept Chef works and follows a process.Each step mentioned above matches the other from UXer’s  Chef’s procedure. A UX designer should cater the needs of the customers like a chef does. A chef does not concentrates only on how salty, tangy or sweet a dish has to be, but creates a holistic experience of relishing a great dish. Likewise,The chef gets into detailing of each and every element he or she is preparing and has to make sure everything is perfect before handing it off. It might also happen that the entire dish has to be thrown away if the basics (foundation or preparation) of the dish have gone bad. An expert chef always understands that garnishing (band-aid) an imperfect dish is never going to take the chef and dish anywhere. Definitely not to the customer! Similarly a UX designer has to get into intricate details of screens, pixel level details, UI elements being used and its justification. A UX designer should also learn to throw away the design if there has been mistake in IA, personas or user research (foundation stages). Applying a band-aid would never fix the problem and will not achieve the relishing experience.A chef, mostly has to deliver a dish under stress and time constraints. Similarly, UXers also have to design in extreme conditions and they should be prepared for the same! The end customer is not going to wait for his or her life-time to experience the best UX! The UXer should be considerate about end user’s patience and tolerance that is already reducing day by day!As the competition between best restaurants has increased and most of them are recruiting world finest chefs, similar is the case with most of the IT product organizations where they are recruiting best of the UX Designers.So enjoy by learning healthy, observing healthy, watching healthy and eating healthy food being cooked by best of the Chefs and UX Designers! Next time I am gonna say~ by @achtungparag #UIUXismSr. UX Designer, Product Strategist, Design Thinker, Gamifier, A non Firstname.Lastname Photographer, ex-Wildlifer, Athlete, Engineer, Creativator 

First thing I’ll do when I’m elected Grand Empress of Design is ban illustrated owls. All of them.However, my second decree with be a blanket ban on UX.UX needs culling. Fail to and we face an epidemic of design apathy. Without UX reform, the chasm between what what we do, what we say we do and how non designers (the people paying the bills) perceive us will continue to grow.Last week, I sat in a room with 20 clever UX designers. Their concerns were uniform. By the end of this year I will have been working in design for a 15 years. I’ve seen for myself how UX has transformed ourindustry. As a principle and a practice, it brings graphic designers, writers and developers together with a common, user-centric goal. UX, as championed by the early adopters of yesterday (the experts of today) has changed how we all (should) design.But it’s time the cool kids let go. UX is going mainstream. Only it can’t, because we’ve either forgotten or are wilfully ignoring the first rule of UX. We’ve failed to communicate the values of UX in a language the people we work for and with can understand.Design for the user. Think like them, talk like them. Don’t bog them down in your jargon. Only that’s exactly what we’ve done. UXD, UCD, UID, CS, Agile, Waterfall, Rapid Prototyping.* UX has become the secret handshake club. Of course our colleagues don’t support our practice. They don’t know what they hell we’re going on about.Relying on undiluted, untranslated UX theory is just making our jobs harder. As much as I hate a Request For Proposal, I can understand why clients rely on it. I’ve bought design and I’ve commissioned websites. I recommend at least once in your career you do the same. With someone else’s money. From a stranger. Squeaky bum doesn’t cover it. Now imagine an RFP filled with expensive jargon you don’t understand but think you probably should. Now imagine you’re only given an RFP to cover the first iteration (yet more jargon) with a promise to “see where it goes from there.” I know I’m being pedantic, but that’s what Agile looks like to someone who doesn’t know what Agile is.The results are in, UX works. Now we have to scrap it. Our design is better because of it. All future focus should now be on co-opting it into the design lexicon. Every designer needs UX in their tool box. We’ve got to stop leaving it to the experts. I’m going to be bold here and say that the advent of UX is as important as the arrival of Computer Aided Design. Those who resisted, who left the computers to the experts died out with their scalpels and typesetters.UX is dead. Long live Design Research. Who can argue with research? Who can argue with analysing your audience and their digital geography? Who’s going to refuse to future proof an expensive product? Who can refuse to take part in the preliminary step in a proven successful design process?Where UX is a movement, Design Research is a skill, much the same as colour theory and layout. It’s relevant to all aspects of design, including (especially) print. Anyone who thinks otherwise needs to spend a bit of time with the Great British Bake Off cookbooks, a series of publications so poorly planned I fear they did it on purpose.Design Research is an element of the design process, something every designer needs control of. Re-branding UX works both ways. UX designers are covering a tiny aspect of a much larger project. Yes, the research is vital but that research needs to be communicated through implementation and beyond. Calling oneself exclusively a UX Designer adds unnecessary weight. It’s akin to calling oneself a Logo Designer then expecting someone else to deliver the full identity. The complete designer needs a complete set of skills.Here’s our choice, continue to allow UX to exist, external to the design process or absorb Design Research it into our daily practice, into design education and into the client’s mindframe. We’re wasting valuable time selling an overly complex concept. Tweak it, re-brand it for the masses and we’re in with a shout of welcoming in a grand new era of design.*User Experience Design — designing something to makes sense to the people using it.User Centered Design — see above.User Interface Design or User Interaction Design — designing the bits that a user touches and works with to ensure it makes sense.Content Strategy — Working out where the content needs to go for a (usually digital) product to make sense. Not to be confused with Content Marketing Strategy.Agile — Build a basic version of your idea, test it, improve it, repeat until perfect.Waterfall — Have an idea, analyse it, design it, build it, test it, launch it, maintain it.Rapid Prototyping — Mock up a quick, basic version of your idea to test how some or all aspects of it will work

Design is going through a bit of renaissance. We now live in a world where it is incredibly easy to share — so every one and their hamster does it. That’s created the foremost dilemma in user experience design, too much information and not enough time. The concept of time has never changed, but there’s more pressure now than ever due to the volume of content that is being pressed.To me, Twitter is the ultimate representation of this current UX state of affairs. And personally, I think it’s failing. Mathematically, it works fine if you are following about a 100 people and check your timeline once every 4 hours — I’d say that’s about 75 tweets to read on average (The first concept aims to evolve us, the users, out of being more than mere avatars a la Facebook. So, Twitter went ahead and made user profiles a literal copy of its evil uncle. This poor decision is a conversation for another day, suffice to say people who use Twitter actively are not the ones who use Facebook actively.The second concept aims to prioritize the consumption of information on our behalf, taking a layer of decision-making away from the user. It’s pretty simple, tweets that are popular are bigger and bolder than those that are not. In an age where there is too much information around us, it’s easy to skip things or conversely become overwhelmed.I suppose we can expect to see all promoted tweets fall under the “can’t miss” category. In a simple world, advertising revenue may be the main catalyst behind this redesign. But let’s assume that the world is not that evil, and Twitter cares about providing a world of content to us. In that world, highlighting items like a newspaper is not the right solution. It’s the popular solution — making certain parts of a list more visible than others, but it by no means addresses the dilemma.The equation behind this problem is simple, time and content. How do you balance it out so that your time is amply consuming information? The concept of lists that the internet is stuck with is a super villain, born and bred by Facebook back in 2004. I’m a big believer in solving this problem, and I think it is There is one constant in all design, people. I found success in maximizing the personality of those who make it, and considering of those who utilize it.

It’s been a while since I moved into data heavy platforms that have served legacy systems for more than a decade. I used to be in awe of sharp apps that did just one thing and did it well — Mobile and web apps that were taking over the market with frightening speed. Start-ups inventing ideas that would command mass following…Somewhere down the line I shifted gear and looked at systems that supported very large organisations and public sector enterprises; Systems that run mission critical applications that could span an entire spectrum of populace. Systems that were developed and engineered more than a decade ago but still functioning and carrying out really important tasks in industries like security, energy, insurance, defence, banking, education, aerospace etc.How many times have you accessed, say, online banking and thought, this is a great application — its secure, easy to use, accessible anytime and its from my favourite bank. Similarly when you travel by the tube (that’s for us Londoners) — top up your Oyster card, check train timings; you get a seamless experience, mostly. When you travel — buy your flight tickets, board a plane, arrive at your destination. We do all of this every day without batting an eyelid. We expect these experiences to be transparent, easy and memorable (if you are on a holiday, not on the tube to work!).What you see on the front, the interface, the experience, the tangible pieces of items that get your job done are supported by an enormous and hard to maintain array of systems that were built many years ago. Systems that we call legacy platforms. They work and they work well, keeping the user on the move, doing what they do best, getting on with their jobs with minimum disruption.Its these tireless systems that don’t take credit for your banking app which helped you transfer money in an instant to your friend and you thought — cool app! great design, works like a breeze. When you step out of the airplane and the fresh air hits your face, you think — amazing airline, fantastic food, will definitely use these guys again. When you visit someone in the hospital and see that they are recovering fast — you just smile at the good work at the hospital, the care and attention to detail that has helped someone on the road to recovery.There are endless examples — but there is one robust system behind the scenes, running everything like clockwork — making sure the friend gets notified about the money transferred to him, making sure the airline was on time, making sure the patient data is constantly monitored and reported to the hospital staff.And looking at how these legacy systems are designed, over the last few years that I have worked on them have given me sleepless nights. Patchwork upon patchwork of functional modules that has created a behemoth thats not easy to tame, slow to respond, hard to train on and costly to run. Why this disparity, you’d ask?On one hand we provide the best in class user experience to the users who benefit from our systems and on the other hand is this vast amount of interconnected-coded-and-patched-module-work of a system that most people would want to stay away from.The staff at a banking back-office, engineers peering through a large array system console at a power grid, stock brokers looking at data intensive desktops changing every second, aerospace consultants monitoring movement of goods and men in high-risk areas across the globe, law enforcement agencies tracking cases with courts, local government staff trying to go paperless, anti money laundering squads risking life during raids noting down crucial details on the ground, very large blue chip companies conducting risk assessments on their locations / factories with accurate reporting for future forecasts….The list again will go on and on….Working on these enterprise wide projects has brought about a simple and hard to ignore insight —The enterprise is the user. The user who has to work to make someone else’s user experience seem transparent.What I have learnt is not how we can simplify the enterprise user experience so its happy days again. Its the ability to listen, talk, discuss, understand, keep quiet and not try to assume that we can provide a better solution that will be a game changer. A solution can come later.The enterprise brings with it people, who have got used to working in trenches, have spent a long time in departments that have become silos and hierarchy that resembles fiefdoms. Working closely with people who have an absolute authority or expertise in their field of work, looking at their day to day functions, how they have custom built some processes that they know like the back of their hand, how they collaborate and mediate team functions, how they overcome the red tape associated with department functioning — its the conversations that bring out the best out of people. Hidden insights could be easily missed if you don’t ask the right questions.Enterprise UX starts with loads of conversations. Gathering insights through these engagements with your users will help you gain valuable information before you start looking at the possibilities of a new solution.More often than not — these users have been using their systems for a very long time, not because they love it but because of a lack of an extremely superior alternative. And every time there is a talk to replace the system and engage with a new vendor (or solution provider) there is a whole list of do’s and don’ts before the procurement process starts. Your ideas will not get past this initial hurdle if you don’t have an absolutely sharp product idea that has the courage to move through the barriers and go to the next level of talks.This is where engagements matter — At the start of a highly potential project for the local governments in the UK we started out with road trips. Meeting different counties and the speaking to the staff about their everday flow of work — what worked for them, what didn’t and what frustrated them and how they overcame these pain points individually to make the legacy systems work form, partially. This was getting their job done, but with immense pressure on time  keeping up with project life cycles.When faced with no option of improvements on a legacy system, most people we spoke to had devised their own way of getting around the pain points. It worked but it also showed us a big gap that needed addressing immediately. We have been on the road since November 2014 and have met scores of people who are carrying on using a system that has become a major hurdle to their everyday work. Engaging people has taught us many things and validated a lot of assumptions, some of them really risky.It has helped us move forward, not towards development, but towards clarity on why enterprise systems are such a neglected area when it come to user experience.My thoughts are more clearer and for me the enterprise poses a great challenge, but also offers at the same time, a greater opportunity to a more simplified customer experience. Everything within the enterprise are connected to people who use them and its the people who must be understood and spoken to so the enterprise benefits.Customer experience  UX Lead Nail down key areas that will drive your business.

Thank you Uday for this very well written description of enterprise UX design. There are a lot of people with UX designer titles now, but only a small fraction of them have what it takes to be a great enterprise UX designer. You helped explain why this job actually is sexy and challenging. Hopefully youve inspired some great out there designers to check it out!(CEO and founder of Rocket Communications, Inc. , an enterprise UX design studio headquartered in SF

In San Francisco, design agencies being acquired by tech companies have become a common story, with clear synergies between tech and design thinking. Remember Facebook acquiring Even before Capital One acquired Adaptive Path, the bank started the process of building its own internal UX and product design group There seems to be several possible reasons. One is that Capital One seeks to turbocharge their product design team and don’t want to waste time hiring up. Even more attractive is bringing in a whole team that knows each other well and has a history working together successfully. Another strategic reason is that this removal of a seasoned pool of UX talent from the market could slow down competitor banks and credit card companies who could until last week turn to Adaptive Path for help. This is at a time when UX talent is at extremely high demand and low supply, driving programs like Web designers of a “certain age” remember Garrett’s 2002 book Recently talking to a former founder of a digital agency that was acquired by a large Silicon Valley tech company, he told me that the thing he misses the most is his clients listening to his advice and really caring what he had to say. And not being just another smart voice on the corporate team. Anyone who has worked both sides of the fence knows the difference, admittedly some corporations are better than others in supporting innovation and design thinking.However, it’s important to remember that the trend of web teams going in-house has been happening for several years now. Digital and product design are now seen as core competitive advantages for many “good” companies and I don’t just mean tech’s Google, Apple, and Facebook. Now a bank like Capital One has woken up to the value of design. I think this is the main reason Adaptive Path has chosen to join a bank and effectively leave the market, as fun-filled and adventure-packed as it is. I think they see a natural progression towards being a part of making big change in an industry that is hot, hot, hot in terms of UX design, and in need of a lot work. Capital One is a good bank and now they’re going to be a better one. Adaptive Path is going to be a part of this in a big way, they hope and I do, too.Simply said, it’s open season on UX consulting. We can’t help asking ourselves, who is going to be the next UX firm to step into Adaptive Path’s shoes? While there are a plethora of web agencies in town with UX on the billing sheet, there’s a real vacancy in terms of focused and dedicated UX practices. What you do see is a collection of smaller UX teams catering to startups. But nothing in terms of the experience and leadership that Adaptive Path brought to the table. So there’s a clear opportunity for firms like ours to engage companies in real need. And now finance companies will need our help more than ever, thanks to Capital One. It will be important for design companies to explain well what they can do and of course let their work speak for itself. And on that note, The Adaptive Path acquisition by Capital One is big news for both clients and UX firms. It means user centered design matters on a strategic business level to a company as bottom line driven as a bank. It means there’s again a shift towards in-house to do big, meaningful work. Lastly, it means there’s a big responsibility for one or more UX firms to step up and carry the torch, to lead with good design that is useful and meaningful to users while supporting business goals. Whatever it means, it shows UX matters.chief experience officer and co-founder of digital innovation firm iiD, dad of 2, lover of bicycles and camping

I would say that the” job description” is to my right. If the screen is smaller than 600px I’d say the description is posted in the link above (please see) “Review the job description”. Instructions are a funny thing, they can be very helpful but often misleading if not crafted well. If you’re still wondering why I would make a fuss about a simple description, well wonder no longer, I can explain!The UX is driven by the UI and at times we may over look things, it’s human nature at its best. It dawned on me in my early years of design (much like the monolith with the apes from: 2001 a Space Odyssey) that users like shiny objects. The shiny object can be marvelous in its beauty but cryptic in it’s purpose. And though you might enjoy looking at it, you are perplexed as to what it all means. Working along side many clients on a variety of projects from lingerie shopping sites to vast and complex inventory management systems one thing is always evident. The design (monolith) is only as good as it’s supporting architecture, visual queues, and relevance of information.As I am a huge advocate for design and design thinking it bewilders me to see the web world get caught up in buttons, gradients, animations and the like. The principle of good design in any industry is a strong foundation. Upon, which we apply subtle and effective techniques to elevate the human experience and improve functionality.I have seen functionality thrown to the curb like a used piece of tissue paper for shiny buttons and fancy animations; misplaced navigational queues for awesome icons and convoluted drop-down menus; and yes, I’ve even seen basic form tabbing functionality ripped from the chest of a web browser (while it was still alive) in substitution for a marginally par JavaScript based “shiny” form solution. Just tragic!Yet with all the horrors I have seen there is a part of me that still believes we can right our wrongs and make a better future, not just for ourselves, but for our children. I have grown to love and understand the way we use the web today. It may not be certain how we’ll use the web tomorrow, but a good recipe for success can stand the test of time, and if it doesn’t, it probably just needs a little salt.UX/UI Designer for the Web  iOSAll things design, but mostly what you think.

In my previous article, I mentioned that people usually come to your site from search engines and links from other pages than directly typing your site’s url.And depending on what they clicked or typed, there’s a high chance that people are coming in from a different page on your site, not the homepage. This is important. You have to make sure that people should get an idea on how they can achieve their goals on your site regardless of the page they’re in.That’s why every page on your site should consistently convey what the site and that specific page is about and give users an understanding of the overall site layout. Consider optimizing the following page elements:A tagline is a good idea if your site’s brand is new or not that popular (yet). A tagline is a brief description of what the site is about, the value it provides and is commonly placed near the site’s logo.The words you use on your navigation should be common, straight to the point and describe the page it will lead to. Wordplays can be tempting but try to avoid them as much as you can.If taglines give people an idea of what the site is about, descriptive page headings can show what a specific page on your site is about. It can be a tad bit longer than your taglines but it’s always important to try and convey meaning using as few words as possible.Images that help describe the page can be good too. Add a brief summary text for good measure.If done right, videos can do a great job of describing what the site or page is about. Though take note of bandwidth considerations. If the majority of your visitors live in places with poor internet connections, think twice before using videos.Making your visitor’s lives easier by giving them the information they need regardless of the page they’re on certainly makes them happier and will most likely continue using your site in the future.Software, technology, design, user experience war stories, and moreA series on user experience design

When I click edit on a page that I’m writing (whether it’s published or not) I don’t want the editor to jump to the top. I’m usually at the spot I want to edit, so it would be great if it just toggled to an edit mode and I could make the edit and be done with it.Heavily influenced by Adams, Bender, Borges, Crichton, Keret, Roy, Steinbeck, Vowell, and whatever I’m eating. 

There is no doubt that a unique, efficient, fresh UX will set your product apart. With that said, I’ve been thinking a lot about the uniqueness of a product, especially when compared to the UX of competitors and products that exist in the same markets/devices/whatever.The idea that triggered my writing all of this down is Netflix, Hulu Plus, and Amazon Prime Video, all living on my PS3. These three distinct products are Amazon is the worst of the three, offering no easy way to scrub through content and the start button doesn’t pause. Has anyone tried to fast forward or rewind on the PS3? It is absolutely painful, offering no preview of the content being scrubbed through.I am certain there are many examples of a product that has a UX that is unique and fresh and creates/reinvents traditional patterns. However, understanding the environment a product will be used in and not deviating UX/UI Designer. Portrait Photographer. Washington, D.C.

Twitter and other (largely) public online forums are used by the UX community to publish thoughts, exchange ideas and discuss current issues. But of course, the audience consuming all that information is not limited to UX professionals. Anyone who wants to gain some insight into the UX community can tap into this constant stream of information, which is especially easy on Twitter — just filter for the #On the downside, tweets have to be short, leaving little room for context or differentiation. In addition, there’s also a tendency to make messages “stick” by phrasing them in a strong and simplistic way. In some cases, this tendency continues in the sources the respective tweets point to.Suppose “outsiders” (e.g. potential clients) go online and sample some of this information, would they have to be very cynical to arrive at some (or all) of the following conclusions regarding the UX community?In the end, on the web, one has little control over who consumes the information that is put out there. But at least, the UX community should keep in mind that one is not simply preaching to the choir online. There are also parties who are interested to learn about UX but do not have much background, which can lead to them taking simplifications / partial information at face value.And even regarding communication Usability Engineer. Trained psychologist. Follow me on Twitter: Selected Posts

I always believe I have this kid thing in me till the day I watched my board full of stickers trying to figure out why this perfectly logical work flow was so ugly cluttered.It was already early July: two month has passed since with a StoryKid demo we stepped down from Techcrunch Hackathon in New York. My cofounder had spent days and nights simplifying the story types from Vladimir Propp’s Kids have no box to jump out of yet. They will be excited by these strange situations. They will come back to our app irresistibly.We hope so.But deep in my heart, I know it is a big hope. This hope might end up a heart breaking failure. Let’s just face it, to tell a story is just not fun enough! My cofounder and I yelled at each other “Totally! This is absolutely — not fun!” They have so many more exciting options out there. If a guy, a book, a color, a sound, even a glass of milk is not interesting, the kids just won’t give it a shit.And ours just would be one of those choices. The anxiety reaches to a peak the night I talked about at the beginning of this writing. When I can’t help asking “How would I know what they want?” I realize I’d better seek help from professional kid app UX designers, from parents, from all resources.Below is a list of what I have practiced in designing StoryKid.Some of them are ideas. Others are UX details. I learned all of them from reading, asking and testing.This is all I can think about for now. If you want to let us know how we are doing and how “kid” I am now, please join here: I urge myself to write well, because only good authors trigger great thoughts.

Algo nos sucedió en el camino. Siempre vamos de prisa buscando resultados rápidos. La cultura moderna es aquella de la gratificación inmediata. Dedicamos poco tiempo a entender lo que necesitamos para lograr nuestros objetivos. La lógica nos dice que si actuamos rápido obtendremos resultados rápidos. Este apresurado tren de pensamiento se ha generalizado a tal grado que incluso ha contagiado hasta el proceso de desarrollar y crear productos de software. ¡Genial! Pero los resultados casi nunca son óptimos porque son… pues, apresurados.Diseñadores y desarrolladores por igual hemos vivido las consecuencias de un proyecto no planeado adecuadamente, o aún peor, un proyecto basado en meras intuiciones sobre los que usuarios desean y necesitan. Todos los involucrados opinan sobre lo que el producto debe hacer y qué características debe contener. Nos enamoramos de la idea y comenzamos a trabajar. No tenemos tiempo de investigar. Rápido, rápido, rápido. Una verdadera receta para el desastre.Sin embargo nosotros no somos los usuarios y nuestras suposiciones como expertos son solamente eso, suposiciones educadas. Es una contradicción tan obvia que a menudo la pasamos por alto, queremos ser proveedor y cliente al mismo tiempo. Es casi como trabajar con los ojos cerrados. Factores como la falta de retención de usuarios nos abren los ojos y nos obligan a corregir, deshacer y rehacer. ¡Y vaya que el re-trabajo es costoso en nuestra industria!Afortunadamente no todo es caos y desesperación, este tipo de re-trabajo se puede evitar si entendemos lo que los usuarios realmente necesitan, si apreciamos cómo piensan y viven. Actuando de esta manera podremos sentir verdadera empatía por ellos, y como consecuencia resolver de manera efectiva los problemas que enfrentan diariamente a través de la tecnología que desarrollemos.Destinar tiempo para realizar investigación de usuario utilizando un marco metodológico, nos provee un punto de referencia más realista. Nos permite ejecutar de una manera más certera esa idea genial que tenemos, pero esta vez, acorde al modelo mental y estilo de vida de nuestros usuarios. La investigación de usuarios es el fundamento principal del diseño de experiencia del usuario (UX Design).Como bien dice Hoa Loranger: “UX sin User Research no es UX” [1]. Sin conocer para quiénes estamos diseñando, y sus particularidades de comportamiento, no podremos llegar a una solución efectiva. La investigación disuelve la contradicción.La investigación de usuario se puede incluir en el desarrollo de productos de software en cualquier ambiente, incluyendo Agile. UX Research no es enemigo de Agile. Incluso son compatibles ya que ambos enfoques buscan prototipar, descartar y/o validar ideas. La variedad y formato de los métodos de diseño es muy flexible, haciendo la adopción de UX Research en un ambiente Agile bastante factible.Incorporar prácticas de UX no es solamente responsabilidad del UX designer, sino de todos los involucrados en el ciclo de desarrollo del producto. Todos los involucrados deben reconocer que el usuario es el centro de nuestro trabajo, es la única manera de asegurar que nuestro producto se incorporará fácilmente a la vida de las personas. No olvidemos que diseñamos para humanos, y vaya que los humanos somos seres inmensamente complejos. Suena como chiste, pero lo olvidamos muy a menudo. Suponer comportamientos es cómodo, pero es altamente riesgoso desde una perspectiva de negocios.El objetivo del UX Design es producir una experiencia memorable y positiva en los usuarios. UX Design no es una ciencia exacta, es resultado de una serie de técnicas que ayudan a identificar e influir en la percepción que las personas tienen sobre un producto o servicio. A continuación presento 7 técnicas populares de UX que permiten explorar los modelos mentales de tu audiencia, descubrir oportunidades, y generar ideas efectivas:Los UX Designers y la industria de desarrollo de software en general tienen la oportunidad de crear productos que impacten de manera positiva la vida de las personas. En nuestras manos está la posibilidad de mejorar la condición humana a través de la empatía y la creación de herramientas para resolver problemas.Si aceptas esta misión recuerda nunca estancarte en una suposición. Mejor sal del edificio y ponla a prueba. Al tiempo, sal y ponla a prueba de nuevo. Si no lo haces las reglas del juego pueden cambiar sin que te des cuenta. El diseño y el desarrollo de software son procesos dinámicos, no son entregables que se realizan una vez para luego quedar olvidados y estáticos.Aun cuando el campo de UX Design ha ganado popularidad, las malas prácticas siguen plagando nuestros proyectos. Alguien debe romper el ciclo y tú puedes ser el inicio de este cambio de mentalidad. La investigación de usuarios te ayudará durante el confuso proceso de descubrir qué es lo que las personas quieren y necesitan. Escucha y observa a tus usuarios con verdadera empatía. Ellos tienen las respuestas que buscas. Nunca olvides que la gente utilizará el producto de software en el cual trabajas. Tu idea, tu diseño y tu código resolverán problemas de personas reales, en el mundo real. Comienza a sentir curiosidad por saber quiénes son, cómo viven y cómo tu trabajo impactará sus vidas. Te aseguro que sentirás una gratificación duradera al ver que tu esfuerzo tiene un impacto positivo en este mundo que va de prisa.En la sección de referencias he dejado enlaces a videos donde se habla con mayor detalle de cada una de las técnicas mencionadas. Estos videos forman parte de los contenidos de una iniciativa en la cual colaboro: The UX Clinic, ahí mostramos los resultados de casos de estudio sobre UX Design. Te invito a que nos visites en Permanent researcher of the philosophy of astonishment. I do UX Design Research for a living.

