The idea that words cannot always say everything has been written about extensively — as Friedrich Nietzsche said,No doubt the best book we’ve read that covers the subject is ‘A feeling of solitude, being alone in the woods and a connectedness to nature. Ralph Waldo Emerson even The mark left on a table by a cold glass. Who knew condensation could sound so poetic.The feeling of anticipation that leads you to go outside and check if anyone is coming, and probably also indicates an element of impatience.This is the word the Japanese have for when sunlight filters through the trees — the interplay between the light and the leaves.Someone who asks a lot of questions. In fact, probably too many questions. We all know a few of these.Spaniards tend to be a sociable bunch, and this word describes the period of time after a meal when you have food-induced conversations with the people you have shared the meal with.Their slang for someone who tells a joke so badly, that is so unfunny you cannot help but laugh out loud.You know when you forget where you’ve put the keys, and you scratch your head because it somehow seems to help you remember? This is the word for it.The feeling that comes from not being in one’s home country — of being a foreigner, or an immigrant, of being somewhat displaced from your origin.Urdu is the national language of Pakistan, but is also an official language in 5 of the Indian states. This particular Urdu word conveys a contemplative ‘as-if’ that nonetheless feels like reality, and describes the suspension of disbelief that can occur, often through good storytelling.The word for the glimmering, roadlike reflection that the moon creates on water.Due to the unbelievable response that came from these illustrations we are thrilled to announce that Go and get Explore the world through beautiful stories, published daily by some of the most inspiring photographers, writers, and adventurers on the planet.

The very first hackathon I attended was back in high school. It consisted of me, a close friend of mine, roughly a dozen and a half 20- and 30-something programmers, and a box of muffins. Somebody had reserved a room or two at their church and posted about it on a local meetup group. We hung out all day, ate muffins, worked on whatever we felt like, talked with each other about our current projects, and helped debug things when we got stuck.When I came to Berkeley, the OCF(?) threw a hackathon. They reserved a room, brought snacks. We worked on whatever we felt like, asked each other about our projects, helped debug things when we got stuck. Everyone was there for the joy of building things with technology. Nobody cared about anything else.Later on, the CSUA had a hackathon. With sponsors. Yahoo! was there, and some other companies whose names now escape me. It was certainly more fancy than the OCF(?)’s event. Yahoo! bought us all dinner; there was now a judging process; there were now first, second, and third places, with associated prizes. I remember these prizes being alluring — people were less willing to talk about what they were building, less willing to help others debug, because that was time they could spend building their hack. And if they had the best hack, they could beat everyone else and take first place. Yahoo! might even hire them. All of a sudden, people cared about something else.Flash forward to the present. Hackathons are now explicitly a competition, and it’s even a competition to attend and win as many as you can (thanks, MLH). Companies are everywhere — corporate recruiters are expected to sponsor hackathons as a standard part of their outreach expenses. Prizes, even for student-run events, have become astronomically large:so large that people have begun making a living off winning hackathons; so large that people systematically game the system to win these prizes.Thousands upon thousands of students rush to compete. Dozens upon dozens of companies attend as sponsors. Student hackathons raise hundreds of thousands of dollars in sponsorships. Hackers are expected to listen to hours of company talks before being allowed (I signed up for, but never attended, that summer’s Greylock hackathon.)Want to organize a hackathon? Good luck — acceptance rates We’ve told ourselves that since everything is bigger, everything is better. But we’re just sacrificing our community to the twin gods of commercialism and capitalism.People are noticing, and they’re burning out.When I was speaking at Battle of the Hacks, a hackathon for hackathon organizers, I asked the room “How many people have taken travel reimbursement to a hackathon just to meet friends there, with no intention of hacking?” Over half the room raised their hands. The rest were first-time organizers.MHacks raised This is why Walmart is MHacks’ title sponsor, and why Comcast (lol) was PennApps’ title sponsor. As hackers burn out, early adopters retreat, corporate giants advance, more hackers burn out, and repeat. Large corporations don’t care about community. They look for ROI and large reserves of semi-skilled laborers. They’re finding that in droves.Today’s organizers have become cogs in a corporate machine. Student hackathons themselves have become corporate. Contractual obligations spell out the mutually agreed-upon worth of individual attendees. Applications and interviews reign supreme (there are even blog posts on how to ace an organizer interview). Hackathons lead dual lives as #brands that speak with the voice of some faceless organization. Major League Hacking, the self-proclaimedBeware that, when fighting monsters, you yourself do not become a monster.I’m close to burning out.One explanation I heard for why Berkeley student groups rarely hold public-facing, non-lucrative (read: non-corporate) events is because we’ve collectively been conditioned to be entitled. Why attend one event when another offers free dinner? At least when corporations have infosessions, we’re guaranteed a meal. Maybe a shot at becoming a cog in a programming machine, too.It used to be encouraging to watch people come to the Hackers@Berkeley events where we offered no promise of food, no internship application to some company. Then I made the mistake of asking people why they came.Why do you want to work for Oh.(Other answers included that they thought they It’s so exhilarating to see so many different faces at events that I help make happen. It’s so depressing to realize that despite my best intentions, I’m just helping rush them into the arms of more and more corporations, instead of those of their fellow students.But while I still have fire in me, I’ll keep running these learning workshops and student-focused events. Hearing just one person say “I’m able to build something I’d only dreamed of in the past” makes the rest worth it.Hackers@Berkeley has fundraised enough money from other sources to throw HackDuke’s prizes were donations to charity and its theme was Code For Good. Probably not coincidentally, it was also the best collegiate hackathon I’ve ever been to. The atmosphere that was created when they emphasized community and eschewed (most) competition is one of the most welcoming things I’ve felt. I genuinely felt that no matter who “won” first, we all had won by virtue of being there and hacking together.The framework is there. It is, believe it or not, possible to hack without corporate involvement. But running MLH claims hackathons need to differentiate themselves, so that’s why they try to go bigger. But who are they differentiating themselves from? Other big hackathons? Don’t advertise to serial hackathon-goers, then. Focus on the community surrounding our schools, surrounding ourselves.I know the hacker community can make the change. You can scale corporate contracts; you can’t scale culture. But we do things that don’t scale. It’s in our blood.Don’t count us out.usually the only liberal artist in the room.

They say building a company is all about building a team. I disagree. I have discovered, sometimes by being a cultural misfit myself, that building a company is really about building a culture. A great team doesn’t necessarily build a great culture, but a great culture almost certainly builds a great team.It’s hard to define culture. What amazes me most is not the difference in culture in different teams, but the difference in thinking about the Everyone looks at companies and has a perspective on cultures — “Google has a great culture, HP has a “nice” culture (which doesn’t always imply good)”. Ask people what culture means and how it can be created, and you’ll get several answers — company values (e.g. “customer first”), mission (“organize the world’s information..”), rewards (“manager bonuses tied to retention”), perks (“free food, unlimited vacation”), environment (“bring your dog to work”). Ask people how they feel about their company’s culture, and you’ll probably get a much simpler “good or bad” answer.My experience is that when you start a company, your personality becomes your culture. Your early team is typically people you’ve known and / or worked with before. You don’t think about culture — you’re too busy building a product and getting people to use it. As the company grows, you start thinking about “defining” a culture. You expect new employees to know, and “fit into” your culture.I’ve always been a bit uncomfortable asking new employees to “read about our culture”. What am I really expecting? Am I expecting them to become a person in that deck? Am I expecting them to change their personality for it? After all, they are who they are. They’re here for a reason. Sure, they’ll read the deck, even do well if I gave them a pop quiz, but do they really buy into it?I sometimes wonder about organizations outside of technology and corporations in general to look for examples of what great cultures are founded on. For example what’s the culture of spiritual organizations? People join, volunteer to help, and keep them running. Some work hard to become leaders and spread the mission. Not only are they unpaid, they donate personal funds to forward the mission.Sure, they’re driven by a deep belief and personal happiness, but a lot of it is about the leader, not the mission itself. They love their leaders. Their leaders inspire them. Give them a strength, a hope, a deep connection that can only be experienced.I’ve come to realize that that is what builds culture: an environment where leaders truly lead by example. When you inspire with action, not just words. When people look up to you as a person, not a CEO or a manager. When they learn by observing, not just reading.President, Healthcare  CMO @ leantaas.com. Head of Product Marketing Data-driven insights for Healthcare Leaders

This new “religious freedom” law in Indiana and the unprecedented backlash to follow is a major turning point for the tension between red  blue states and the tiresome “Culture War” — far more than I initially realized. I think that you may find that the recent progress of fundamentalists to be turned back in a significant way in the years to come, fueled by potent social trends, but also historical economic shifts.Josh Marshall at TalkingPointsMemo notes that I had an epiphany about the future of the culture war having seen the depth and power of this reaction. Sure, there are the very important social trends — that according to the Pew Research Center, But it’s the economic trends that are so powerful. Check it — What does this mean? Clearly, given the last week’s events, it means that the economic powerhouse city-states can deeply affect the local economies of places like Indiana if their political decisions stray too far from the values on the coasts. Back in 2004, I remember the horror among those in the big blue coastal cities that the mores, values, and religious fervor of Wyoming and Kansas would guide the whole country because of the electoral college. Well, due to the innovation economy, the shoe is now on the other foot. Perhaps you can get the votes to outlaw marriage equality or to allow discrimination, but the fact is there are a whole lot of gay people working at high levels of industry and government in LA, San Fran, and DC. They are our friends and neighbors, and they decide, among other things, where to hold $200 million conferences. In short, yes, your religion and politics may be a local matter — but the money is on the coasts and might veto your decisions with those almighty market forces I hear so much about.Politically, it ain’t 2005 anymore, and it probably won’t ever be again.Expert in strategic trends and decision making. Author. Linguist. Bassist.

Is it any wonder that Apple (who just had the largest quarterly earnings of any company ever) is famous A decade ago, in the Information Age, Apple wouldn’t have succeeded as well as it did. But we are now in the Connection Age.In the Information Age, content that sold was, well, information.In the Connection Age, content that sells is culture. Culture is what connects people.Regardless. In any “age” there are always waves:Carles, the most enduring Internet commentator of our times, not shut it out. And yet the current mechanisms of networks like Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube make it difficult for new players to break through. Even though there’s a low cost to enter the online media space, there are ridiculously high barriers of entry.Even if you make it, you still have to figure out how to translate your likes, retweets, and clicks to real value.of this second wave of the Connection Age (or the sharing economy). What we’ll be expecting in the Third Wave are specialty platforms that engender a culture of long tail, authentic, not-for-everyone creation and consumption.As noted by Carles, it is already happening in music with networks like Soundcloud and Bandcamp, and we will feel its effects in other online media industries for years to come.Existing platforms, if they cannot adapt, will have to acquire ones that ‘get’ it, and operate it independently of their main big box platform, or die. Just like Yahoo did with Tumblr.because they are designed for the convergence paradigm, where popularity and virality trump relevance and discoverability.Existing platforms believe in shoehorning features like “algorithmic curation” and “machine learning” into their current paradigms to leverage the long tail content they have on their site, but this is like Costco trying to sell small batch craft beer. Successful third wave platforms look more like Whole Foods, J Crew, or Urban Outfitters, not Uniqlo or Gap.Because history is cyclical, we know from history that these existing platforms will not die a quick death, but will limp on their success until such time that it figures out how to turn around its business. This is crucial knowledge for anyone wanting to enter the online media business, as these giants will not give up without a fight.The online media businesses of the future, like the online media giants now, will resemble each other in scope, but not in scale. No doubt will they be much smaller, but they will be at the intersection of technology and media, which means neither a Silicon Valley culture of hacking nor a Hollywood culture of gatekeeping will work — new models will have to surface. These are exciting times for new players.These new models will figure out what Silicon Valley hasn’t, which is how to grow by scoping out content rather than scaling up audience.that intersects both technology and media, which is unprecedented — existing online media behemoths are either tech-first (Netflix), or content-first (VICE Media), which is why they’re over-reliant on each other.Content people, who are right brain creatives, are suspicious of left brain analytics with all their data-funk, and technologists are confused by content, because they cannot be grokked using data or analytics alone.Because interactive design is still in its infancy, its growth will be the key to unlocking the secrets of online media.Traditionally, interactive design, which grew out of the esoteric field of HCI (or Human-Computer Interaction), is more micro than macro in scope. It’s now widely regarded that design should be baked into the DNA of a business, but no one really knows how, for now more than ever before, because technological innovation can only get us so far before their resulting improvements to human life tapers off.the one that suits our personality and lifestyle best, knowing it does the same damn thing under the hood. Just like buying a car now. They all get you from A to B, but that SUV has better fuel efficiency and a larger boot space so you can travel longer distances for your family trips.Content will be like that soon. You will choose where you want to read your books, watch your films, listen to your music. You will even choose what content verticals you want in addition to how you want to consume it. The underlying technology and the content will be largely the same and will be available everywhere.how DRM will or won’t work, reform licensing and copyright, and introduce standards for interoperability. It will not happen, in other words, until we figure out how not to be overprotective about the content we own, and realize that our content is more valuable if it is available in as many places as possible, that gatekeeping isn’t exactly bad, just that it should be done on the audience level rather than on the owner level.But because consumer habits are accelerating so quickly towards this state of affairs, that the future seems inevitable. We will have to catch up with it soon, or risk losing our culture to a few “influencers” or “tastemakers”, and losing good art to Torrent culture.In the third wave, we will finally be able to live comfortably within our chosen tribes and coexist with the world at large, and fulfill the very promise of the Internet, a model compatible with the way of nature.Which is to say, I live for the everyday magic and rare moments of serendipity.Musings on the intersections between culture and the future of design.

In the South Pacific, airplane runways seemed to produce vast riches. In Silicon Valley, ping pong tables seem to produce rich cultures.Unfortunately, neither is true.Culture is far more than fringe benefits, company outings, or recreational spaces. An organization’s culture is the sum of its shared behaviors, values, attitudes, beliefs, and assumptions. Culture is the shared reality in which work gets done. A reality that should bring stability to teams, projects, and the business overall.Cultures are organic. Cultures emerge. But they can also be intentional. People can be thoughtful, purposeful, and responsible around the behaviors, values, attitudes, beliefs, and assumptions they share.Organizations can be empowered to design the culture they want.The first newspaper classified ad ran in The Boston News-Letter in 1704. At its In 1995, Craigslist.com was founded to let anyone, anywhere reach an audience.By 2014, yearly print ad revenue had plummeted to just $16 billion dollars as those exchanges moved onto the platform (and elsewhere online).Craigslist likely won’t enjoy 300 years of dominance. Today, victories and competitive advantages are short-lived. Craigslist is being challenged on all fronts.Overnight, the disruptor becomes the disrupted.Long term survival depends on more than a clever business model, a bleeding edge technology, or a polished marketing campaign.Pixar is the most consistent hit-maker in the history of Hollywood. It’s also a company obsessed with culture.Aside from culture, there’s no great innovation inside Pixar. Last year, Ed Catmull, President of Pixar, published Pixar isn’t invincible. They will experience ups and downs. Yet, their culture will provide a remarkable well of resilience that will last far longer than any single employee, any single franchise, or any single technology.Culture is Pixar’s most sustainable competitive advantage.While I agree with Fred Wilson, I don’t think startups can afford to wait on designing their cultures until after product market fit. In reality, culture informs everything we do — even if that influence is unconscious. The people you choose to work with, the products you design, the compensation you negotiate, the environment you foster — everything is a product of culture. And new cultures are born from the embers we carry with us from past experience.Too often, successful companies reach product market fit and then realize they have a crisis of culture on their hands.Ultimately, culture is always forming, we just might not be conscious to it until it’s too late.And as cultural forces influence events and our decision making, those forces can cement into longstanding organizational narratives.So, now that we’ve established that culture CAN be designed, that culture is the MOST sustainable competitive advantage, and that cultural design starts on DAY ONE — the real question becomes how to design culture even during the chaos of product market fit.One answer (among many) is to use lean manufacturing methods to design your organization’s culture. Culture may not always be your first priority, but it can be a conscious process even as a company transforms from a small band of misfits to a fully fledged enterprise.When we borrow from outside practices, Just as we are obsessed with increasing the quality of culture without unnecessary complexity, TPS is a model of production obsessed with reducing waste while increasing the quality of production. Therefore it’s possible to borrow from its most foundational elements to pose the following questions:To satisfy #1  #2, we need a shared ritual among teams where culture is placed front and center. First, we suggest surveying the whole organization every month using Second, once the organization has a quantitative measure of its culture, let teams react to their team-specific data and propose changes to improve their immediate culture. We call this The Upgrade Session — a 90-minute meeting that happens once a month. We suggest sharing each team’s data a week before the session and asking each participant of the meeting to bring a proposal to advance the team’s culture and its ability to pursue its purpose.In the Toyota Production System, quality is built into the process with the benefit of an By allowing teams to signal when culture is at risk, an organization can ensure that growth doesn’t come at the cost of purpose or team cohesion.In the Toyota Production System, a As an organization grows, it needs rules and principles which limit the expanse of cultural complexity — rules which govern behavior but don’t create unnecessary rules and process.When Netflix was building As Ultimately, we believe that an organization’s culture should support the organization’s purpose and the organization’s ability to adapt — we call this Founding Member of NOBL Collective – adaptive organizations with a lasting positive impact. Visit Change is accelerating. Uncertainty is rampant. Expectations are sky high. Teams need a new way of organizing and working: FLOX™.

Like most founders, when Eddie and I started As Bigcommerce started to get legs (10,000 paying customers in the first year with no VC money — We knew there were a lot of “ingredients” we’d need for our “recipe” to build a large, lasting technology company. There was the usual stuff every founder knows they intuitively need — cash in the bank, a bigger office, more people and a leadership team.At the time, I know I didn’t think too much about our company culture. My view was that if we lead by example and tried to hire the best people we could find (and afford), we’d be OK.And to a certain size that was true.We would do long days in the office — sometimes working from 8am to 4am. Because most people at the company had no partner and no kids, they did the same. We were honest, friendly and went out of our way to make sure our small team had fun while building great software.Soon after we raised our series A of $15M in 2011 from General Catalyst, we had our Sydney office and a small team in Austin, Texas. We also hired our first real executive — Robert Alvarez, our CFO.Rob is still kicking goals and taking names at Bigcommerce and is now our CFO and COO. Much like Jack Dorsey considers Dick Costolo a co-founder at Twitter, I consider Rob (or “RA” as we all call him) a co-founder at Bigcommerce. Bringing him on board was one of our key “founding moments”.When we started to grow deliberately (raising VC, building out an executive team, delegating the things we each didn’t like or weren’t good at) as opposed to having the slowly-but-surely bootstrapped mentality we had until that point, I started doing a lot of research and reading about how to build a great company culture.Most of what I read talked about building a start culture that revolved around free beer Fridays, ping pong tables, an XBox, a funky office, expensive chairs, nice Apple laptops, etc. So we did all of that.But as we started to grow, none of it made a difference — and probably impacted our culture negatively.I think the real turning point for me and when I started to really “get” company culture was when I started to hear that Rob had been given the nickname of “The Priest” — because everyone would confide in him, ask him for advice and meet with him regularly.We were dozens (maybe hundreds) of employees by 2013 and I found out Rob was having 1-on-1s with That’s a lot of 1-on-1s every month. 20 on the low end and 40 on the high end. And he did it because he understood what’s involved in building a strong company culture that becomes the foundation on which to scale everything.After going through the usual ups and downs of a fast-growing startup between 2011 and 2014 (during that time we’d raised $125M, gone from less than $1B in GMV to well over $5B and grown the company from about 20 people to over 400 spread across 3 offices), I remember Ed telling me that he was fascinated with how Rob built out his own team with such incredible people.They were all amazingly smart, humble and genuinely cared about the company, our clients and the people they work with. And he’s never lost or had to fire anyone.It was at that point Rob explained his “bucket 1, bucket 2″ interview process.In short, bucket 1 is what you need the person to “do” in their role. For an engineer, it’s creating code. For a sales rep it’s closing deals. For a marketer it’s creating campaigns, etc. 99% of companies hire by simply asking all bucket 1 questions:Bucket 2 on the other hand is all about who the person is, how they see the world, what they believe in and what they care about. What does their family mean to them? What built their character over the years? What makes them strive to be better every day? How was their upbringing? What values do they instill in their kids?After learning about his bucket 1, bucket 2 hiring approach I was more surprised to learn that during interviews, he spends 95% of his time having conversations around bucket 2 questions.He doesn’t care about their resume and doesn’t prioritize whether someone has “done it before”. He looks for people that align with how he sees the world and what he values in people.More than that, Rob shares the incredible story of his upbringing and how he turned adversity into enormous personal and professional success. It’s a very personal story, so I won’t share it here. But he “opens the kimono” (as he likes to call it) and shows who he truly is as a human being.When someone interviews with Rob they walk out of the interview with a mixture of feelings and emotions: they are amazed, humbled, excited, tearful and proud.It’s incredible.Today, all of the hiring managers and HR team at Bigcommerce have been trained to understand Rob’s bucket 1, bucket 2 interview process — and they use it not because they have to, but because they want to.Every company has core values, but as you grow your company it’s impossible for the founders to interview everyone — and believe me, we tried. We interviewed every single candidate for the first 100 people we hired. Probably over 1,000 people in total.For whatever reason though, sometimes hiring managers miss the mark. They might feel they need to fill a role fast and so they compromise by hiring for skills (bucket 1) not cultural fit (bucket 2). This doesn’t mean they’re bad people — it just means that they might’ve been overwhelmed or under-resourced at the time.By training anyone and everyone who comes in contact with candidates to use the bucket 1, bucket 2 approach (I agree, we need to give it a better name), the Bigcommerce culture has been transformed, and it keeps getting better every day.Like most things that can transform a company, this is a simple principle. But having the patience to dismiss a candidate (or fire someone) because they’re 10 out of 10 for bucket 1 and 2 out of 10 for bucket 2 takes patience and determination.To build a sustainable company, you just have to do it.As Bigcommerce marches towards the 500 people mark, it’s a calming thought to know that Rob’s vision for culture is now ingrained in the DNA of Bigcommerce. While I’m no longer active in the company I co-founded, I see the incredible people being hired and it humbles me every day.So does this bucket 1, bucket 2 stuff really make a difference? Well, the mojo reports (Bigcommerce’s version of employee NPS) are trending up across the company, everyone is extremely motivated and most importantly aligned around our original vision of democratizing commerce for millions of fast-growing businesses.In summary, culture isn’t free beer, a nice office or a ping pong table. It’s the composition of the human beings you hire, what they value in life and how they see the world.Make sure those things are right and you’ll be an unstoppable force.Featured image via 

Company Culture is an annoying subject to research. It’s a mushy marshland of vague language, incomplete redefinitions, with lots of navel-gazing and self-congratulating. Writing about Culture is the acceptable way to brag about your company on your own blog, and not-so-subtly recruit the reader.I happened to learn the word ‘Happily, that’s exactly why we’re here — to get right into that 1% of meaningful resources on a topic that is crucial to building a successful business.Here’s what we have this week:It turns out to be a complicated question. While there are identifiable factors that affect Company Culture, the true source is as complex and varied as the organization itself. As Simon Sinek says in This may seem an unnecessary distinction, but many truths are hidden in this simple sentence. Culture is ever-changing, evolving minute by minute.The culture is the outcome of decisions made by the organization, and it is the input for the next decisions made by the organization.Sinek’s quote reminds me that cultures cannot be transferred, installed, or added — they can only evolve from the culture you already have. The starting conditions have already been set in motion in you as the founder even if the company hasn’t been founded yet.It’s a foundational rule of culture that companies will grow up to emulate the personalities of the founders. This is Founders tend to hire, promote, and retain employees who are similar to them in their disciplines and approach. This scales their outlook on life and work, casting a giant shadow in their own shape.The practical implications here are that if you’re going to go work at a company, look at the founder — if you don’t want to be more like them, it’s probably not a great match for you.And for those starting companies, work on the self-awareness of your strengths and weaknesses, because that’s what your company will be built upon.The other important piece in this post is his attention on the context — it’s a broad category, where millions of tiny choices add up to create the culture.That’s a beautiful list of cultural factors — probably not comprehensive, but it includes some subtle and important intangibles like celebrations and how people talk. The list of things that make up and are defined by culture is longer than you would first think. Great insight from Dunn, and many thanks to my friend That headline doesn’t make much sense, but you’ll see what I mean. In 2013, Airbnb co-founder Brian Chesky wrote a letter to his company called “It’s title is the exact advice of Airbnb Investor Peter Thiel, and the letter explains why maintaining the culture is so important:In ‘First, Berkun echoes the lesson above, about the founder’s outsized impact on the culture, how employees are really ‘along for the ride.’And some of the challenges of living up to those cultural values, when they’re challenged by employees:Cultural momentum is very difficult to shift, and moves only in small increments — especially when driven forward heavily by a strong-willed founder or CEO.With the recursive nature of Company Culture — where each decision affects the culture, which then influences the next decision, it’s important to realize that perception becomes reality. In other words:If you fire someone for a perfectly valid reason that upholds your cultural values, but the story that the team hears is something different, it will put a dent in their perspective of the culture, and therefore the culture itself.‘Measuring’ your culture will help you understand the possible gap between your perception and employees’ perception. This is difficult with such an amorphous concept as culture, where everyone seems to have their own definition. But how do you measure it? We found some great thoughts on this.Justin Moore, CEO of Axcient, While recitation isn’t necessarily compliance, let alone fully embracing and practicing those values — it is a good test of the Measuring trends in this data will give a sense of whether the culture is moving in a ‘positive’ direction, or breaking under the strain of growth. The sooner leaders learn about cultural degradation, the better.Another couple of great culture insights from San Francisco’s master of startup culture building, Brian Chesky. This time, from his talk at Stanford:Chesky makes the point that there’s no such thing as Good or Bad culture, only Strong or Weak culture.I find this mostly true — the good or bad axis exists, but it is subjective. A good culture for one person could be bad for someone else. We should all seek the self-awareness and courage that allows us to find the culture in which we thrive.In the Strong vs. Weak axis, Chesky does not give us a definition, but my perspective is that Thanks to Terry Lee, Marco Scolaro, and The most commonly-recommended book on the topic of Company Culture was On Another interesting insight into analyzing and classifying cultures from Seeking out new perspectives is always a helpful exercise, and this simple framework allows us to see some of the components of Culture in new ways.What is the impact of culture? Why does it matter? Is this just some fluffy feel-good bullshit, or does it actually change the outcome?So which of these is culture?A solid brick wall instead of a stack of bricks means your house will stay standing in a hurricane. The difference between a good strategy, and a strategy held together with strong culture can mean success over failure.I respect a lot of the cultural innovations from Tony Hsieh at Zappos. They’re one of the most popular advocates for building culture as a means of creating excellent service. What that means is summed up in this beautiful sentence:If leaders of the company build a strong culture that shows employees love and care, employees will treat customers with that same love and care — and customers will know that the company loves and cares.Tony Hsieh is full of these pieces of wisdom, after years of building Zappos as a beacon of a strong culture. His story and his lessons are in his book, If you want the cliffnotes version, The mere mention of ‘culture’ seems to evoke softness — butterflies and teatime and endless sharing sessions. That’s not how He makes the distinction between ‘Human Resources Happy’ (meaning content in life, relaxed, balanced, at ease), and ‘High Performance Happy’ in How much of a difference can culture make? The best answer to this question I found was the example of Nucor Steel. They manufacture steel and steel products, and have since 1940.In an incredibly competitive, unsexy, backbone-of-america, factory-floor, commoditized industry they’ve managed to become the largest steel company in America, completely destroying their competitors year after year. How? A strong culture.Here are some highlights:Also, Nucor has a radical compensation policy, which is very closely tied to the customer’s outcome in it’s dealings with the company:These are exactly the kind of tough decisions that make a Strong Culture. Priorities are clear. They are well defined and thoroughly reinforced. Employees are accountable for the success of the company. Not everyone will be happy working here, and that’s by design.This Steel manufacturer has lot to teach companies in every industry about building and reinforcing a strong culture.In this is an interesting thought: It is easy to build strong cultures at sexy and fast-growing consumer startups and widely-known brands. It is much harder to craft a strong culture at an unknown utility buried deep in the supply chain — but the benefits to the company are far greater.Airbnb has undoubtedly built a strong culture. And they had every advantage on the way there. Nucor crafted an equally strong culture from a far more difficult starting place. Both of them have things to teach us.In any company in any industry, strong cultures can be crafted, and we can learn from every attempt, whether or not it succeeds.As a final resource for those who want to dig deep into strong cultures, here are a few documents from some of the most admired cultures. Explore these and see what you can find. If you have other suggestions, comment with them here and I’ll add them!If you enjoyed this, you’ll get more like it fortnightly by Bringing you Evergreen takes dozens of hours each week. If you find anything helpful and interesting here, please consider becoming a Supporting Member with a Massive appreciation for those who suggested pieces of content (or wrote something new) for this Edition of Evergreen: Many thanks for being a part of this project! Not every suggestion is able to make it to the final edit, but every single suggestion is read and appreciated.As my Father always says: “There’s always room for the best.” There’s always a better resource out there. These collections can always get better, and I hope that they do. If you can think of anything that was missed, I welcome you to share it.To share your thoughts, improvements or additions: Read and write. Listen and speak. Think and unthink. Act. Rinse and repeat. I work at Zaarly. Building the Evergreen Project on the weekends. Tw: Timeless Wisdom on Business Topics, created from the best resources suggested by our readers. Each week there’s a new topic and a new Edition of Evergreen Business Weekly. Become a member at Evergreen.instapage.com

In my piece Experiencing I believe there are 5 tenets for designing culture.Establishing purpose requires shared passion. It’s passion around a problem an organization is solving. In order to articulate your culture the two must be closely intertwined.The next generation of employees don’t care about material things. Calport Newport points out that One fundamentally important reason purpose is absolutely critical is because it helps define the behavior you’d want in your organization. If the purpose is to converse then the clear and expected behavior would be open and inclusive. This implies that purpose can help to measure or even guage the culture in your organization because it frames behavior towards it.I’d like to use A shared sense of purpose cultivates a culture that facilitates building the right product in the best ways. The employees who build the product are passionate about doing things and as such will build the best possible product to help others with their projects.The point being that the best cultures have purpose as an underlying factor to its success. It makes culture resilient, a mandatory characteristic for a long lasting culture.Establishing ownership of culture is a powerful model for lasting cultures. Culture isn’t about rules, it’s constantly being rebuilt by the actions of those who are passionate about it. If you’re designing culture, allowing people to actively contribute to its evolution almost guarantees its continued existence.I’ve heard of At AnotherIt’s not a matter of only providing the environment to own things but also about people wanting to. Ownership facilitates that.Attitude or mentality isn’t culture. Collective behavior is. Many startups hire on the premise of ‘culture fit’ which is arguably a misunderstood approach to designing it. For a culture to truly evolve, there must be positive friction. Without diversity of some sort it becomes one dimensional.As an example, if a company consists of males only then that’s most likely going to be the type of culture that exists — extreme example but you get the point.Look at The application of diversity depends on the intention of the culture. At Forever is great but easier said than done. How does one make culture “forever?” It will take years, decades to build a culture but it’ll take much less time to fuck everything up.As an example, Burning Man forgave the Sound Camp but now has official consequences in place for breaking this rule. That’s a subtle way of being protective of what they’ve built.Subtlety in exercising protection of culture is important because it’s got to be organic. Normally there are no rules or parameters but since the culture is intentionally being designed for a specific outcome, there must be guidance to ensure consistency. The more consistent, the more defined a culture becomes towards its intention.Another great example is the letter by CEO of At With these proposed tenets for designing a sustainable culture, it turns out too much of one thing is good for nothing. There cannot be too much emphasis on one over the other otherwise it breeds a one dimensional culture. For instance too much ownership by employees without being protective of the culture can break away from the intention. On the other hand, being too protective means that you’re really implementing laws and rules, not facilitating a culture.In the past at Balancing these tenets weaves them together in a way that makes the culture resilient and that ultimately makes it sustainable.Every culture is different whether it be Burning Man or Airbnb’s. It depends on the desired outcome and how these tenets are implemented to create just enough order.Artist creating culture and experiences Exploring how culture can be designed

Depending on who you ask, 60–70 percent of change initiatives fail to meet their stated objectives, and the primary source of that failure, according to a Deloitte study, is resistance to change. So if you’re embarking on a change initiative, the last things you want to skimp on are If you have an important change initiative you should do a Culture Mapping scan. It reduces risk and increases your chances of success.Think of it this way. Imagine that your change initiative is a large fleet of ships that is about to go into a relatively uncharted waters (your organization’s culture). You would be stupid to just take the ship into the harbor without some advance scouting.Culture Mapping is like sending in a team with a fast, motorized rubber raft, to scope out the harbor and plant big red flags to mark the rocks under the surface. To find the deep water and favorable currents. To scope out hostile and friendly forces. To map the territory, so you can navigate the safer waters and give your larger mission the best possible chances for success.Even a brief, one-week Culture Mapping scan will give you enough information to avoid costly mistakes and find the positive enablers that can help you position your initiative for maximum success and to minimize risk.Most importantly, Culture Mapping works. It surfaces information that, as far as we know, cannot be collected any other way. It gives the C-suite access to frontline culture in a way that they could never get through their own efforts, because the water-cooler conversation always shuts down, or significantly shifts, when the CEO or senior leader walks by.First, you work with a Culture Mapping team to identify the groups that can best represent the various subcultures in your organization. For example, Finance, Sales, Wholesale Group, Retail Group, Operations, Logistics, IT, and so on. Working together, we identify 5–6 people from each group.The Culture Mapping team schedules a series of 90-minute sessions, one session with each group. It’s important that these groups are teams that know each other and work together on a regular basis. In other words, we want to sit down with 5–6 people in Finance and only those people. Then we might have another session with 5–6 people in Sales, and so on. We want to do these sessions separately.The thinking behind this is that we want people to share real information — in a sense this is a constructive complaining and designing session. The output of each session is a simple document that describes the current and desired outcomes, behaviors, enablers and blockers for that particular group. The sessions provide clear links between management actions, incentives and business structures and business results. They also provide recommended management actions and clear reasons and linkages that demonstrate why these actions will be likely to deliver the desired results.Ironically, people will often be more honest with a complete stranger than their boss, or someone they feel might have a personal or political interest in the outcome of Culture Mapping sessions.As a leader or manager in a large organization, you probably have a sense of the culture and people challenges facing you, but at the same time, you must also manage not only down but up and across the organization.Culture Mapping gives you the intelligent information you require to For more information about Culture Mapping, contact Join the Founder, XPLANE. Author, The Connected Company and Gamestorming Better business, by design

Hallå Markus / “Notch”,I’m not going to pretend that I know you or actively follow your story. I have never played your game and I probably won’t in the future. But your recent tweets of isolation and relationship hardships hit home.I don’t have any answers for you (and neither does anyone else), but I do have a few questions and thoughts that may aid in your search to rediscover the joy and belonging you once felt.I recently watched When I woke up this morning I was thinking about one scene in particular. It was when the Mom, who is a real estate agent, hosted an open house and failed to make a sale after a desperate attempt.As the last guest left the house, with her back to the camera she closed the sliding door and pulled the drapes to shield the light. As she turned, her eyes were closed and face distorted from anguish. Seconds passed and there was not a hint of sound. She was trying to cry but she couldn’t.Suddenly, the floodgates opened. Her mouth opened and she cried intensely, wailing like a child. She just had to let it out — the stress, the pain, and the disappointment. Not only from losing the sale, but from the brokenness all around her.Without warning, she slapped herself in the face and said, “Shut up! Stop it! You witch, you baby! Shut up!” She did, and she stopped. She collected herself, rubbed away the ruined mascara and walked out of the scene with the airs of calm confidence. Her main line is “In order to be successful, one must project an image of success at all times.”On Saturday night, you let out your cry. Maybe you were just having a bad day, or maybe you were just commented on a twitter trend, either way, you let it out.I’m seeing articles across the web of 20-something writers contemplating your thoughts and offering you solutions. People young and old are acting as if this is a surprise, wondering how can this be? A guy who sold his company to Microsoft for USD 2.5 Billion(misleading for average person) feels isolated. Must be something wrong with him, right?Of course there is nothing wrong with these feelings. You’re human… you aren’t the first and won’t be the last to feel this way after a mega exit. When average people think of millionaire status, they think relatively of how that would make their life better or easier.We say, “Oh wow, I wouldn’t have to worry about bills anymore, I could buy a supercar with doors that open sideways, and I could do x, y, and z.” They are only focused on the immediate gains, and have no basis to understand the new problems.This obsessive tech culture of hyper futurism, investment, scalability, valuations, and Silicon Valley worship that people are running for is an illusion. Once again, the average person, and even the average startup founder only relates to this positive side of modern tech culture.Silicon Valley is no different from Hollywood or Wall Street or the upper echelons of politics — it’s more lonely at the top than at the bottom. The truth of this culture isn’t on the covers of the tech tabloids — it’s right there in your Twitter feed.One thing in which I can’t agree with you is the idea that once you get everything you want, you run out of reasons to keep going. Firstly, you don’t have everything you want. If you did, then you wouldn’t be tweeting about your isolation. You have gotten everything that this culture suggests you should want, but not the deeply personal desires of Markus Persson.Second, there are always meaningful problems to solve. Real happiness only comes from solving meaningful problems and true relationships with other people.I watched your appearance from 2013 on the Late, Late Show. Craig Ferguson asked you if you had sold out to the evil corporation. You said, “No, not yet. And we hope not to. Basically the idea is that we have a company and we just make games we think are fun.”One of the ideas I talk about with my friends was popularized by James Carse in his book, Judging from your game Minecraft, you are more of an infinite game kind of guy. So why did you stop playing?After Minecraft became such a huge hit, I’m sure you felt pressure to match or exceed that with your new projects. But see, thats the thing about life, you occasionally have these black swan events that cannot be predicted. Odds of you replicating that success are close to zero.Why can’t we just appreciate a beautiful work for what it is and resist the expectation that the next installment will exceed or surpass it. I guess we as humans we have never been very good at that hope vs expectation thing.Are you trying to start a new finite or infinite game?After the first couple tweets on Saturday night you wrote this gem.I’m buying that this neo tech culture is mainly a group of assholes. Often they can enchant even the most hipster mind to sell out for love of money and corporate interest. I guess as you have discovered, the utopia they are selling is a simple VR simulation.Of course money is important, but it should be viewed as a tool amongst many other tools to provide optionality and benefit in ones life.Y Combinator, widely considered the best startup accelerator in the world, just announced their updated stats. The top statistic read,There are eight other stats on the website. Another which is very interesting is number of companies funded by YC is 940. That’s a lot of companies. Considering almost all of them had at least two partners, that is a minimum of 1,880 people. How many of them you think feel like you, Notch?I’ve been trying to get Sam Altman(not an asshole) to answer this question on twitter for a few weeks now, “How does the YC education system handle the topic of suffering for entrepreneurs?”No excuses for him not seeing the question, because it was in response to a reply he sent me. The reason he didn’t answer is because, But what happens when the sex, drugs, and rock n roll lose their effectiveness? That is unfortunately when they need the one thing that all the money of Silicon Valley cannot buy,But things aren’t hopeless, Notch. You say that you want would try your hand at saving the world but fear it would just expose you to similar assholes of tech culture. Two years ago, I would have agreed with you, but then I met the people at Exosphere.At first glance you see the Exosphere slogan, “Disturb the Universe” and think, what the hell? Upon closer inspection, you will find it is from a T.S. Elliott poem entitled, The mission of But let me tell you something, building this type of culture is extremely difficult. When you care about people and their long term growth, you can’t just discard them when things are tough. You can’t just kick them out when their MVP fails or when a co-founder quits. But instead you have to put in more time and energy to build them back up.When you incubate people instead of startups, valuations cannot matter, thus money is more difficult to come by. The elite talent pool that can get the top money, will usually go for it, so the supporting cast will not be the standard skill level of a SV team. When building this type of culture, you don’t have to accept everyone, but you do have to accept anyone who raises their hand and says, “I want to be a part of this.” Only then you have to confirm their volition by watching their efforts day after day of slogging through the muck of the everyday work.It is a tough road, one that will never get easier. But maybe that’s the reason why all Exosphere participants are required to read Scott Peck’s, There are rewards. Seeing people transform before your eyes, responding to positive energy and love is a big one. Seeing people conquer their fears and start to work towards their dreams is one. Seeing people willingly have difficult conversations to fix problems now instead of forever delaying is another. I could go on, but I think you get it that these types of rewards cannot be bought with money.There are many organizations and companies around the world that are changing the status quo and doing it through non conventional ways. They are building cool shit, and making a difference in people’s lives. And in that process, they are circumnavigating the assholes.Markus, I hope you are able to find what you are looking for. But no matter what, please don’t be like the Mom from As I said before, I don’t have any answers for you. But I encourage you to, “Musk” as you put it. No matter what you do for the rest of the your life, if it is something meaningful, you will have to deal with at least a few jerks that try to ruin the party. Find yourself a group of people who are committed to each other, and solving similar problems you find meaningful. Don’t let the assholes win.#NotchGoMuskGood things to come,Luke Blackburn-hot and cold, but never luke warm. Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

Please stop writing medium posts about why your startup failed, and why that’s a good thing.Blogger  community facilitator This is a collection for general writing, thinking, and opinions.

7 am. The alarm on your phone sounds. You consider deleting the app. Get out of bed and get ready for work. At breakfast, you check Google maps for the current weather forecast and the fastest route to work.Your WiFi has been acting spotty lately. That aggravates you. You grab the umbrella just in case and leave home. As you leave, your Nest thermostat automatically adjusts the temperature to save you a few bucks on next month’s energy bill.On your walk to the subway, you open Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, and Snapchat, and cycle through them in a habitual order to catch up on what you’ve missed since last night. You encounter:You look up. Practically everyone has their heads down, staring at their phones, walking en masse. Bright billboards above you advertise the newest tech. Your wrist dings. It’s your smartwatch notifying you of a text. You use your watch at the coffee shop down the street to pay for your coffee.Before you enter the subway, you queue up a playlist on your phone with offline podcast episodes that you downloaded the night before, put your headphones in, press play, and tune the world out. Again, everyone has their heads down, completely immersed in this digital world, headphones in, no one talking.Right before you get on the train, you use the last drop of service to snap a video of a street performer to your friends, it won’t send. Quickly switch to Twitter and send out a tweet:Connection drops in and out as you pass each stop.The preface above describes the typical morning of someone living in a culture in which people are surrounded and consumed by technology — a digital culture.Digital culture is a blanket concept that describes the idea that technology and the Internet significantly shape the way we interact, behave, think, and communicate as human beings in a societal setting. It is the product of pervasive technology and limitless access to information — a result of disruptive technological innovation within our society.It is a lifestyle, and you’re part of it. You’re living it.Digital culture is the Internet, transhumanism, AI, cyber ethics, security, privacy, and policy. It is hacking, social engineering, and modern psychology. More contextually, digital culture is using social media as our main mode of interaction with others; sharing every moment of your life on the internet; the selfie phenomenon; the live streaming obsession; the anonymity provided by online communities; Apple Pay and Android Pay; wearable technology; the use of emoji to enhance communication; internet/cell phone addiction; the sharing/on-demand economy; cloud computing and storage; the internet of things.I think you get the idea.Digital culture is many things and applicable to multiple topics — but it all boils down to one: the relationship between humans and technology. These ideas are often overlooked as technology becomes a second nature to us.Humans are using modern technology to enhance or alter the quality of living to accommodate our changing environment and human needs. For example, we’ve created the on-demand economy for the goods and services we need instantly, and cloud computing for working on the go. As our lives become more and more fast paced, we innovate to adapt. And because technology does not pause, as explained by Moore’s law, we have to compensate by evolving our culture as needed.With all this in mind, the goal of Digital Culturist is to explore this concept. We want to dive deeper into what makes technology tick, why it’s created, how it changes the way we live our lives, why it makes us behave the way we do, and what that means for our future.There’s an enlightening sense about taking a step back to analyze where we are and how far we’ve come that makes digital culture so mind boggling.There’s a cause and effect to everything. Digital culture is the effect of the ever evolving technological fetish we have developed, and we’re here to find out what effect it has on us.Writer, technophile, and internet traveler. We publish analytical, informed stories, commentary, and opinions focused on technology and how it affects human behavior and social culture.

My mother is seated in the balcony several yards away, waiting with bated breath for the hum of strings and percussion to commence at the flick of a conductor’s wrist. After a morning of shuffling a crisp, white, button-down no-name shirt, shiny patent-leather shoes, nylon stockings, and a lint-ridden, velvet-black, knee-length skirt onto me — her melanin-abundant, plaited-haired child — she helped me pack away my bow and violin.My bow and violin now sit moist between my sweaty palms under the harsh light of the stage. The horse-haired strings of the bow have been slicked with sticky, powdery resin from forest trees, the wood and strings of the violin have been polished with a soft cloth at the extension of a hand using measured, assured, circular strokes. Now, I wait among other young, musical hopefuls. Here, the lights overhead are blinding. The murmurs from the crowd seated several feet to the left and below the stage send a rush through me like an electrical current. I poise the bow in my hand above the high-pitched stringed instrument as I prepare for my first performance at Boston Symphony Hall.There’s a specific way in which the performance of my identity as a black, disabled girl with depression, anxiety, and Attention Deficit Disorder, and later as a black woman, has meshed or clashed with my performances as a classical musician. Both performances are complex, sometimes uncomfortable, and I don’t always receive standing ovations within the context of my life.Performing musical compositions, often from European countries, often felt like I existed beyond myself. I played in a parallel plane where black girls with twisted plaits received as much recognition as white men with grey wigs and suits. I’d so often seen depictions of Ludwig van Beethoven, one of my musical idols, with a grey or white wig, performing at famed venues all over Europe. I was fascinated by this man, a musical genius, who couldn’t hear the tunes he made but could nevertheless move people for centuries with the riffs, keyboard variations, crescendos and decrescendos he created so many years ago.With Beethoven, music transcended time, place, nationality, race, and gender.Surely, I’d never be on the level of this man, a man who was white and wore curly, culturally accepted whigs while my hair had to undergo the stress of heat to behave the way society wants it to. A man who performed with musical celebrities, a man who was talented enough to use his music to support his younger siblings when his mother died and his father fell ill from alcoholism.I was from another place altogether, one without expensive pianos, one without a parent who could teach you how to play an instrument from a young age, one without European music halls and courts.And then, when the winter of 2014 struck, I made a startling, personal discovery: I learned that one of the greatest composers of all time, one of my personal idols, was not only hard of hearing but (probably) a mixed-race person of color.The idea that Beethoven was not only disabled, but a disabledMother always said, “Knowledge, once acquired, is the one thing no one can take away from you,” and after this discovery, I will surely never be the same.Where I grew up in the “inner-city ghettos” of Boston, Massachusetts (as political pundits so often like to call impoverished communities), hip-hop culture and its music were paramount, not classical music. There were no ladies in waiting, no Kings and Queens, no powerful family surnames.It was the mid-nineties, and our royalty included Nas, Lauryn Hill, Tupac, The Notorious B.I.G., Missy Elliot — so many versions of our own Kings and Queens.Hip-hop was important to us because, in a nation that systematically discriminates against many people and where not much can be gained and where much can be taken away if you’re black and poor, we turned around and made empowering music. Now, hip-hop is popular culture, but then, it was a matter of social justice and survival.Our survival is at stake now, because of various forms of cultural appropriation. Well-meaning hipsters have taken something that was made for us — something that, when it was created by us, never received the recognition it deserved. However, we never needed recognition because the making of and listening to hip-hop music wasn’t about that. For many of us, hip-hop was essential to our fabric as beings and as survivalists in an oppressive society. And, for the same reason that white people regale a thousand times over the historical significance of the hoity-toity classics found in college classes that discuss the Western Canon of Dead White Men, hip-hop music was treated as cultural case study or a political manifesto of sorts where I grew up. You can’t recite lyrics from iconic hip-hop albums or bang out specific beats on your desk during class? You’re an outsider. You don’t belong here. If you can —and I could — well, now you have a family.Hip-hop music legitimized my experience, it fed me. It helped me to perform within a context of my identity in a place that couldn’t offer much nourishment or nurturing other than through the social-justice-conscious culture, music, and people (usually, black and brown).You see, the places I lived were home and they were comfortable but they were also, at times, greatly unsafe. And not in a “Reporting Live from the Ten-O’Clock News: Black people are scary, beware of their neighborhoods,” kind of way. As Cookie Lyon, the music producer from the television show You had to be smart where I grew up, and not in a way that any book could teach you. I learned this the hard way, in a place where there are no makeup tests if you fail. When I was five, a man tried to break into my bedroom by bashing into my bedroom window. He was armed with a knife. My mother, unarmed and seemingly unafraid, scared him away. That was the moment I realized my mother must have superhero-like abilities that I didn’t know about. I’m still waiting for the day that I inherit mine. The next day, I watched the cops chase the man through an abandoned yard next to our home and apprehend him into their vehicle. It never occurred to my mother to call the police on the man (we didn’t have a death wish, after all), but somehow, the police had found him anyway. Later, when I was nearing eight, a neighbor of mine joined a gang, and I was no longer allowed to hang out with him, his sister, or the other members of his family. And, a trip to a local ice cream store that specialized in serving my family’s favorite Caribbean-American sugary treats ended with my mother yanking my brother and I by our collars to escape underneath the summer sun from a barrage of bullets between two warring families of businessmen.And so, I spent my time leafing through my textbooks from school, riding a bike with my brother and Dad, while my mother, sick with chronic illness, often lay in bed. I also learned to play classical music.I think my Mom figured it was time I experienced a place beyond our own seemingly designated dimension in the world. So, she found a program that would fund instruments and music lessons for impoverished youth and/or youth of color. The program would then train us for admittance into the Boston Youth Symphony Orchestra.Mom realized hip-hop music could feed me, but it wouldn’t transport me anywhere in this world. It worked for Biggie, in fact, it made him the icon that he is today. Biggie’s performance of his cultural identity made him a star, a point he illustrated in “Juicy” when he rapped, “Now I’m in the limelight ‘cuz I rhyme tight.” He himself, “never thought that hip hip could take it this far.” But, for Biggie, hip-hop did take him to the places of my dreams. He continuously rapped about “that life” even when he lived in mansions and wore fur coats. What my mother understood, however, is that we can’t all be The Notorious B.I.G. She was trying her best to show me another way of life, another performance in which I could flourish. People are obsessed with black culture, as we see today, but most people only get respect if they conform or assimilate to Eurocentric cultures. This was a lesson I learned when my white friends would turn up their noses at the music I had on my stereo. Tupac was also teaching me this in his lyrics, as well.Tupac taught me, “we ain’t meant to survive ‘cuz it’s a setup,” in “Keep Ya Head Up” and I felt a pit of fire in my stomach. I listened to the blasting music, seated in my parent’s beat up, blue That’s how hip-hop nourished me, fed me, and helped me survive. But my mother desperately wanted to cultivate a new lived experience for her daughter, away from strife and into another kind of expression. She wanted to help me escape my world and enter into another.So, I picked up a violin and bow and transfigured my body’s performance in a way that could elevate its existence. Except, the world of classical music and Dead White Men’s compositions were a world removed from my own.In fact, my world was different in so many ways.In the neighborhood, people drive beat-up cars that shake relentlessly with the syncopated beats of hip-hop music. Men call out to passerby with deals for their demo-tapes. These announcements are intermixed with cat-calls towards not-to-be-bothered women. The back-and-forth love saga between my unwed mother and father plays amongst the soundtrack of baby-making Rhythm and Blues music and I learn that poetry, beats, and cleverly crafted hooks have the power to heal.Here, my identity is represented in most aspects of life around me. This, and similar neighborhoods that I will go on to spend my childhood in, are that of working-class people. Many of these people are people of color, specifically Afro-Caribbean or mixed-race Caribbean-Americans. You know how people joke that on every street corner in America there’s a Starbucks or McDonalds? Well, in my neighborhood, there’s a Jamaican food place, a video store, and a family-owned convenience store that sells sage, spice, and incense for religious ceremonies on at least every other street corner. In the summertime, you can spot the women dressed in their best jewels, headdresses, and gaudy, colorful, liberating clothing during Carnival season, in celebration of a particular Caribbean nation’s independence from colonialism and subjugation. You can also spot dudes selling bootleg tapes, watches, and purses on the street.In the neighborhood, they sell mangoes and coconut juice out of the back of mobile food vendor vans. It’s a touch of the motherland and it’s a performance. There’s a certain distinct pattern to my gait when I’m surrounded by people who look, move, and speak like me. Women in the neighborhood have brown, pronounced lips that, no matter how much bright-colored lip gloss they paint over it, are still overpowered by their browness. The people are animated and “live” when they speak. My father’s “uh-oh,” teeth sucking, and face-splitting smile isn’t uncommon as a response to something surprising because, in the neighborhood, other Afro-Latinos have similar mannerisms. My mother’s raucous laughter, uninhibited womanhood, and comfortable Jamaican Patois speech patterns are the norm.In the neighborhood, my existence is validated. My body taking up space and time is supported. It’s existential. It’s affirming.In the music classrooms of Boston University, however, there are no beat-up cars, hip-hop demo CDs, or fast-talking men with false promises. There aren’t a lot of black or brown people, much less people who speak with “broken” English or in African-American Vernacular English, either. (But, really, what’s so broken about a language that was created to assimilate to subjugation and enslavement?) The food served here is unseasoned and paltry. No one is loud or raucous, they are soft spoken and timid in nature. My shyness goes largely unnoticed here.When I gather every Sunday, first to perform with the mostly white (and sizably Asian) orchestra, later to practice with the largely black and Latino orchestra made up of less affluent youth, I unpack my violin and bow and hoist the vessel of music onto my shoulder. I watch for the conductor’s instructions, a white, accomplished woman who is using her passion for music to afford me, and other black and brown youth, the opportunity to perform at such places like Boston Symphony Hall.In the music classrooms of Boston University, my performance is a different kind of passionate. It’s not the comfortable, confident gait that I’m accustomed to back home. It’s a swaying dance of my body seated in my chair. It’s the soaring notes from my violin that dictate the melody of the rest of the orchestra. It’s the sharp string that’s digging into my brown flesh as I pluck them rapidly in succession. My womanhood is a performance of embellished, colorful, long nails, but in Boston University’s musical classrooms, they are filed down to the nub so that I may better play my instrument.I wear preppy clothing here because I want to follow the trends of the Hollister and Abercrombie and Fitch wearing pre-teens and teens. Eventually, I will chemically straighten my hair because it’s rough, untamable, and unprofessional for this atmosphere. Or, so I fear.The bodies here, at least during my rehearsal with the more prestigious and more famed Boston Youth Symphony Orchestra, are not black and brown, but pale and of affluence. They’ve been playing their instruments since they were two years old. Or, their parents are famed musicians, like Beethoven’s father. They’ve paid for their thousand-dollar instruments. Mine is donated from the funding of the second, more black and brown populated orchestra that I rehearse with after rehearsing with the BYSO at BU.Here, I constantly question my abilities. My ADD makes it more difficult for me to concentrate in a place where your ability to play well and better than others adds to your status. I constantly compete to be considered “1st Chair” in the violin section and to lead the others. But, when I don’t leap ahead in the rat race, I find myself wondering: At home away from BU, my depression makes me lie in bed, looking past my window as I try and picture something beyond this plane, when I should be glancing into my music notebooks. My practice time is inhibited because the pangs of anxiety, depression and a lack of attention dictate another performance from my body: feeling lethargic, writhing from pain, and ultimately, in a bid for peace, falling asleep.And, despite this, I often hear that I’m good, in fact, great, that I sound like I’ve been playing instruments just as long as any of these other children.I enter a competition in the middle of nowhere where white people are still calling the violin a fiddle. I’ve been rehearsing this fiddler music for weeks, perfecting it, learning how to stomp my foot and bob my head in a fast tempoed way that other fiddlers do, in time with the frenzied music from Ireland. This is a new kind of performance. It’s more fun, it’s less hoity-toity, it’s born from a people who gathered around to listen to this music outside of European famed halls and courts.In the crowd, I see people dancing and clapping their hands. I smile. My braces tickle my teeth. I can still taste the fried-dough and sugar on my tongue that I bought earlier during the fair.I bob my head. It’s not like I’m listening to hip-hop music or anything, but if I strain myself, this is sort of like hip-hop. It’s got a beat you can kind of get hip to.I’m bowing and the piece is over. “One Mississippi, Two Mississippi, Three Mississippi,” I count in my head. I unfold my body from its bowing and look into the smiling faces of the cheering crowd.I did well. I shuffle off of the stage. It’s a waiting game now.“Fifth place goes to…” the announcer begins. My stomach sinks. There’s no way I’m going to win.“Fourth places goes to…Jasmine Rose!”I did it! I jump in place backstage, amazed that I was able to place in my first competition, ahead of so many people. I run on stage and accept my yellow ribbon and smile broadly as it is tacked onto my dress.“It was all a dream,” The Notorious B.I.G. says in my head.Later, my mother drives for hours to take us back home to the neighborhood.***I played the violin from the age of six to the age of fourteen. I performed in competitive contests and won top prizes against white children whose parents probably gave them an instrument when they exited stage left from their mother’s womb. I performed at Boston Symphony Hall, beginning at the age of six, and I performed with my orchestra as an introduction to The Boston Symphony Orchestra’s performances, as well.I studied theory, music composition, and the piano. I picked up learning to play the viola at twelve and became an expert player at that, too.I studied composers of the likes of Beethoven to Mozart and every Dead White Man in between.So, why didn’t anybody, anywhere, tell me that Beethoven was a Moor, or a mixed-race person with sizable African ancestry?I tried to wrap my head around it: a disabled Moor has composed some of the most famous musical compositions of all time? A disabled, Afro-descended person has made contributions to classical music that forever changed the game. He was The Notorious B.I.G. of his time, y’all.And, no one thought that I, a black, disabled girl who often doubted her own abilities, needed to know that? Why had I always seen pictures of Beethoven depicted with thin lips, a pointy nose, and straight, wispy hair, things that are signifiers for what most educational materials seemed to want me to believe?Why hadn’t an academic, or a musician, or anyone who studied the craft told me?I wish someone had mentioned all of this. I deserved to know.Maybe my performances would have changed. I’d have played louder, I’d have been less amazed by my success and treated my performances more like the hip-hop stars do. Hip-hop isn’t an art form of narcissism. It’s an art form that enables black and brown people to be empowered in a world that systemically discriminates against black and brown people while constantly tells us that we should be grateful and humble.If I had known about Beethoven, I’d have demanded that everyone else know, too.Beethoven was black. And that, for me, changes everything.Jasmine Rose-Olesco is a writer and activist concerned with the topics of intersectional feminism, mental health, popular culture, race, and technology. Her interviews, cultural essays, long-form narratives, and long-form reports on beauty, civil rights, class, comedy, gender, race, and technology have appeared on, or are forthcoming from, The-Toast.net, See more of Jasmine’s musings by following her on Contributor Human Parts explores the patchwork of the human condition through experimental and traditional personal writing. To contribute, email 

As a designer who’s made the rounds at several different companies and teams, I’ve had my share of It was at a previous job that I was first exposed to a “curated” culture, meaning there was purposeful attention given to creating culture.The office space was well-decorated and conducive to an engaging, productive work environment. The perks were focused on quality of life and happiness. Bonuses came quarterly. On the surface, everything about their culture seemed ideal, and I was excited to be a part of it. But as I spent more time within it, I began to notice something important missing:Respect — arguably the most crucial cultural aspect of all.The conventional wisdom is that by showering employees with perks and fringe benefits, they’ll overlook any cultural shortcomings, and focus only on how good they have it.You know what? Sure, it’d be nice to shoot a quick game of 8-ball when I’ve got the time.Well yea, who doesn’t love somebody else picking up the lunch tab?But if the job I’m doing day in and day out lacks any real substance, and those in charge couldn’t care less whether it’s me doing it or the latest recruit, then what’s the point?The realization that I eventually came to is, this isn’t culture. This is benefits in lieu of culture. A true culture fosters an environment that encourages and supports those within it. It empowers team members to make mistakes and to learn from them. It believes in process and a method for determining success or failure. A true culture understands that to be effective, it needs to be rooted in a respect for people and the work they do.It wasn’t until I recently joined Think Brownstone that I understood what kind of culture I wanted. If my previous job was the “adolescent” incarnation of culture, only concerned with superficiality and immediate gratification, then Think Brownstone was surely the more mature, “adult” version.Gone was the ping pong table and Startup Vitamins wall hangings, replaced instead with leather couches and wood adornments. Spotify subscriptions and Seamless credits were eschewed in favor of full health benefits and unlimited vacation. Alcohol-based incentives and internal contests gave way to weekly 1:1s and knowledge sharing sessions.But these are still surface-level considerations.The main differentiator between adolescence and maturity is the respect a place like Think Brownstone affords each and every one of their team members. Respect isn’t a value you can bolt on to a company that’s lacked it since inception — it’s something that needs to be built into its very DNA.Think Brownstone has a successful culture because the company is When every cultural consideration is being steered by values instead of superficiality, it’s easy to see the effect it has on the overall health and output of the team, and the company.Put simply, it’s time for the companies that believe culture ends at ping pong tables and free lunches to grow up. The perks are nice, but a workplace without meaning — and a culture that lacks a mutual respect between employees and employers — is only going to drive high-quality, intelligent folks away.In the end, what really lies at the root of a person’s happiness? More often than not, the answer isn’t something that can be put on the company credit card — it’s an intimate understanding of what drives and motivates people, leaving them feeling fulfilled and valued .When culture is built with these pillars, the rest will come naturally.Designing experiences at Think Brownstone

It’s easy to forget how completely email owned office communication for the past two decades. At some point communication stopped being a part of company culture, and became a checkbox on your list of office skills: word processing, spreadsheets, and email.The good news is that’s changing. With the rise of real time messaging and collaboration apps in the workplace, we have access to a far greater range of useful tools to talk to one another. From Slack to Dropbox to Google Docs to wikis, a new, better world of collaboration seems tantalizingly close.The not-so-good news is most of us need a little help to get there. The tools are finally here, but we haven’t quite figured out how best to use them. We’ve all been coasting on a communications culture inherited from years of ad hoc email usage. After suffering for so long from overloaded inboxes, lost emails, and overuse of reply all, we finally have the chance to build something new and better. The key word there being Slack will always be only one of a portfolio of tools that any individual or company uses. That said, it works best when your team goes all in: try swearing off sending email for at least a day or a week. You’ll be surprised by how many emails, meeting invitations, Asana tasks, Trello cards, Google Docs are unnecessary when you can just have the conversation in Slack. For those that remain, all the tools above integrate nicely with Slack. But you won’t know exactly which will make sense until you’ve made Slack a part of your daily routine.Everyone, of course! Exactly how they do that is a bit more nuanced. While it’s tempting to have everyone on one team, Slack teams tend to get a bit unwieldy above 500 or 1000 people: larger organizations should divide into multiple teams by division/department. The larger the team, the more team members are encouraged to have conversations in private groups, which means they’re missing out on Slack’s usual openness. With a more intimate team more conversations can happen in channels, which anyone on the team can join. Those conversations in Slack are what create that magical sense of “ambient awareness” of what’s happening, as well as an archive of organizational knowledge over time.When adding people to Slack, be sure to think beyond your core team. Take advantage of Slack’s restricted and single-channel guest accounts to invite contractors, customers, investors, and partners onto your Slack teams. Even if you only give them access to one or two channels, it’s still a powerful way to build human connections outside the company.Slack is like any other communication medium: you can use it for anything. Yet at the same time, it benefits from having some intent about how it’s used — some patterns from email just won’t work. Because so much communication in Slack happens in the open, teams in Slack are more like communities. They need leaders to set standards, take charge, and lead by example. In Slack, this often means inventing a new use for Slack, creating a channel for that purpose, and showing how to use it. This is especially true of teams spanning multiple organizations, where you don’t have the existing power structure and priorities of the company to drive activity. I’ll walk through a few examples below.The usual advice for small Slack teams is keep it simple — start with the #general channel, and create new channels as you need them. This is solid advice, but larger teams will benefit from some channels created in advance to seed proper usage and some patterns to solve common problems as they arise. Some examples:These are just ideas: no need to implement every one, but especially for larger teams these are useful patterns to get the most out of Slack and avoid common issues for growing teams.Many of the “rules” for using Slack effectively can easily be picked up from simply trying the product for a day: make sure you’re reading the right channels; adjust your notification settings so you’re aware of key updates but not constantly distracted; don’t use @channel unless you really need to notify everyone in the conversation. Others tend to emerge as the team grows and needs more structure: use your real name, title, and photo; don’t distract people by idly chatting in channels with many members.While these can largely be enforced by social convention, as your team grows and its culture becomes more complex, it can be helpful to create an onboarding guide to get new members up to speed. This is especially true for teams that grow very quickly, and community teams where there isn’t already the strong social contract between coworkers in place. For the latter, it’s critical to explicitly define standards for appropriate communication.One of the opportunities when adopting Slack is not just to try a new tool, but to establish a new, more intentional, communication culture. While it may seem strange to adopt rules for communication, a few well-chosen guidelines for Slack can be far more positive for your culture than the many unwritten rules of email. Start with the basics above, link to Slack’s own Integrations are a powerful and under-appreciated aspect of Slack. Don’t worry about getting them exactly right in the early days, but do take the opportunity to start building your archive! Even if you don’t know exactly how you’ll use the data yet, aggregating information from your other tools in Slack makes it all available in one place via one search box.A simple place to begin is dedicated channels for each feed of information. Completed Asana tasks in one, Twitter feeds of your competitors in a second, GitHub commits in a third. Even if these are too high volume to allow for much human conversation, they expose the potential of the data for other uses and make it available via search. These will often be more general feeds of information with applicability across teams.From there, you can start to choose which integrations to include even in channels primarily dedicated to person-to-person conversation. These should typically be lower volume — no more than one notification every hour or two — and be natural conversation starters. These will often be more specific to a given team or small group. Use Zoom or Hangouts for videoconferencing? A notification in the channel is a great way to let people know when a meeting begins. Has a critical problem been detected? You can make sure it’s seen by all the right people ASAP.Communication culture and the tools and conventions that support it are by nature constant works in progress. These guidelines are a starting point, but it’s every team’s responsibility (and opportunity!) to continue cultivating them over time.Facing other issues adopting Slack? Trying to kickstart a team for a large distributed organization or community? Want to build your own Slack integration? Product Lead + Investor/Advisor. 1st PM at Slack / Co-founder of YesGraph / Veteran PM + MA lead from Adobe. I love food, wine, style, and the great outdoors.Lessons from its First Product Manager

Hiding behind the veil of culture, they shout;Women, they say, have roles and responsibilitiesWomen, they say, areWomen, they say, are daughters, wives and mothers.Bred to meekly acquiesceOn the altar of culture, the women have been murdered,Far from the madding crowd. Of Poems and Quotes. BibliophileHome to some of the best stories on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.

I grew up playing baseball and continued playing all the way through college and beyond. I have been on a number of teams, each of them having their unique personalities and different cultures. I still play baseball today and have learned a few things about how to build a winning team and what is most important to the players on that team.For a number of years I played for a team that wasn’t very good. New players would come every year, but we really never seemed to improve. I don’t know that we ever made the playoffs. As I got older and realized that I probably wouldn’t be able to play baseball forever I began to get a little frustrated with the fact that we never won.So I left and went to another team.The team that I went to was winning and had players that were extremely good. Most had played college and some had even played in the pros. So needless to say I was extremely excited about the prospect of being on a winning team. We went on to win back to back championships.But something seemed strange to me.When we won our championships I was expecting everyone on the team to start throwing their gloves up in the air and begin jumping around. That didn’t happen. Instead everyone was pretty calm. We gave each other high fives and hugged each other, but there was no big celebration. Honestly it felt oddly normal.After looking back on it and reflecting on my prior experiences with the team that didn’t win, I realized that it wasn’t really about winning the Championship. Yeah, it was nice that we did win. But what was most important was that I could rely on my team every game to go out there and give it their best. They were very talented and there was no doubt in my mind that we could go out there and win every game we played.What is your team’s talent level?When we start to look at our teams in our organizations, there are different ways of measuring success. There are performance goals, efficiency, awards, sales, etc. But one area that we often overlook is talent development and what the talent level of our organization is. It is a hard thing to measure but something that I find to be one of the most important.So if we go back to baseball for a second. In any given game there is going to be someone who is struggling. Your all star player may just not be hitting the ball that game. Everyone else on the team understands this and knows that they will have to pick up the slack. This doesn’t always translate to the work environment though, often times we are not working as a team. We don’t hold the belief that the guy sitting next to us will be there to give it everything he has. We begin to resent those who don’t perform rather than pick up the slack.Teams that don’t operate as teams can be one of the most harmful things to your culture. But a lot of this has to do with you as the leader. If you don’t build a team that can work together as a team you are going to miss the playoffs every year.We see it in sports all of the time, there is a low market team that can afford only one all-star player. He gets frustrated because the team isn’t as good as he is, they miss the playoffs. Meanwhile there are other teams that hardly have an all-star on their team but they will make the playoffs every year because they know how to work together. And then there are the teams that can buy their way into the playoffs. They buy up all of the talent and because everyone is at the same level they are able to perform at a high level.As you build your team for success you have to begin to take a look at what the talent level of your team is. I have found that it is best to get your entire team as close to the same level as you can. No all-stars, no under performers. With this team, everyone knows how to work together. They understand that they can rely on one another. They will pick up the slack for one another because they know that it will be reciprocated. At the end of the day this team will feel the most accomplished because they were able to do something together as a team and perform at a very high level.When you create a team that feels good about working with one another they will get more pride out of what they can do as a team rather than the metrics they are able to reach. You will get your metrics, don’t worry, but we don’t necessarily have to think that in order to reach an efficiency metric that the solution is to move faster. Maybe your team just needs to work better together. Raising the median talent level of your organization may get you better results.If your goal is to win the Championship you may want to step back and look at what is really important to you team. Chances are if you were to win that championship right now your team wouldn’t be all that excited because of what they would have to go through to get there. But by reassessing our talent level we can build a team that finds more accomplishment in working together as a team than winning the actual Championship. Ultimately this team will go on to do greater things than you could ever believe.-Charlie Foss is a Designer, Researcher, and Strategist working at the intersection of design and business. Find more at Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

There is a clear path to healthy culture, and you achieve this one step at a time. Let’s look at what it takes to get there.Be StrategicBe concrete:Implementation also acts as a means of communication, demonstrating the culture by providing a host of daily, action-based reminders of organizational values.Cultural preferences can guide the design of a workplace that caters to the type of employee you want in insightful and unexpected ways. For example, Exxon Mobil — with a culture that tends toward the extremes of rigidity, formality, and systemization — was considering switching from a defined benefits plan to a defined contribution plan (more commonly offered by companies today). They decided against it, concluding “the security the defined benefits plan provides is more in sync with the values of the employees the company hopes to retain.”Depending on your answers to the above, you will have an idea of where to add detail or shift. No matter where you land, remember that everyone has a culture preference. If you don’t understand that, you are doomed to frustration. Remember, if you filter for the culture you need at your company, you’ll be much closer to the successful outcomes you desire.Strategic Creative Firm Specializing in Branding, Social Media  Making Creative Matter® in Print, Packaging, Web, Enviro, Documentary  Motion. #DesignForGood

In March of this year, Beyond providing a fresh perspective on an ever-evolving topic (i.e., company culture), we also intend for this post to kick off a series of culturally-minded pieces of content, largely inspired by the archives at [Alexa Your company culture is what you collectively believe and — in practice — what you collectively do. It shapes how people work together, how you deal with problems that arise, how people feel when they meet someone from your company. Derived from a company culture is typically a set of values and beliefs, such as transparency, collaboration, or trust.What do these values actually mean, though? If I’m a new employee coming into an organization, am I expected to know how to convey these values? No. Of course not. That’s why companies instill their cultural values in all kinds of different ways. For example, at Facebook the value One way we support introspection is through a weekly activity called Anxious/Excited, where we all get together to share the things we’re anxious about (work-related or otherwise), along with the things we’re excited about. Anxious/Excited (AE) is such an integral part of our culture that we frequently invite people to participate if they’re thinking about joining the company. It gives them a chance to see what we’re like in our most reflective moments and get a sense of what it would feel like to work here.I often tell people outside of Keen about this activity and the reaction I typically get is, “That’s great, but how do you scale that?” The answer: you don’t.The commonly referenced Sounds straightforward, but oftentimes organizations that should be working toward the same goals and values end up fighting over tactics, resulting in a toxic and unproductive environment.When Keen was small (as in 6 employees working out of the founders’ living room), AE was an excellent tactic for introspection. Everyone was working together day in and day out. Some days were stressful, some days were happy. Everyone was close. Taking time to share and reflect at the end of the day was not only valuable, it was easy.We are now at 40 people, and as you can imagine, AE is not as effective as it once was. Debates have emerged on “how do we scale AE?” How do we recreate the feeling of safe space and intimacy that allows people to open up and be introspective?In times like this it’s helpful to think about why we did AE in the first place. If we look back to our value of introspection we can see this “scaling problem” from a different, more open lens. There may be a totally different and better way to support introspection at 40 people than 6, and yet another way to do it at 100, 200, and 1000. The key is stay committed to our values, and to evolving the way they’re expressed.We’ve already evolved AE to make it work better for more people:We’re also starting to think about other ways to support an introspective culture, such as:The bottom line is: How have you scaled your company’s culture and values? We’re still figuring this stuff out, and would love to hear your ideas. Feel free to /end Alexa’s postThanks, Alexa! Since she was kind enough to share her insights on scaling (or not) your culture-focused activities and consciously allowing your values to evolve, I thought I’d take a turn and let y’all know how things have changed since March…We’re just As you can see, we’ve been busy trying new things and determining what works (and doesn’t work) for us. Every person and every group of people (aka, company) is different. We hope that this bit of sharing is valuable for you, and we’d love to hear about your experience navigating this interesting aspect of building a business. Please share in the comments below and/or tweet us at Oh yeah, and if you’re interested in data analytics, — this post put together by Writings from the humans at Keen IO, focused on data, culture, and introspection.

Trying to build an awesome engineering culture for your company?Take a look at how Spotify works and get inspired Agile matters more than Scrum. Agile principles are more important than practices. They started with Scrum but evolved to what works best for them.Spotify have Autonomous Self Organised Teams (Squads) with less than 8 people that are reponsible for small systems (or micro-services).These teams take care of the entire service lifecyle, from idea to deployment to operations.Every team should have a mission aligned with the organisation as a whole, “Be autonomous but don’t sub-optimise” as they say.For example: “Make Spotify the best place to discover music”, “Create Infrastructure for a/b testing”.Let the teams discover how and solve it.Each team is responsible for one system. But anyone can alter any code, so if team A needs something in a system managed by team B, they can ask them, but if team B have other priorities, team A do not need to wait. They can go ahead and to it.Do small and frequent releases. “If it hurts, do it often”.Fail fast - Learn Fast - Improve FastCreate post mortems after a failure to understand what happened and how to avoid reccurency .Care more about innovation than predictability.Try the Lean Product Development Mindset from idea to MVP and then tweak it based on data.Don’t forget to track if any impact was achieved.Run Hackathons. Special days (or an entire week) to do whatever you want, with whoever, in whatever way.Have an experiment friendly culture. “A or B? I Don’t know, let’s try both and see which works best for us”.Stop doing things that do not add value.Run Ask what’s the minimum viable bureaucracy to avoid chaos?Build a list defining what awesome looks like for your team (ex: no recurring bugs, really finishing stuff, etc.)Use an Improvement Board with Before and After Scenarios and actions to make progress.Thats it! Go ahead and be the change you wanna see in the world!Learn more at Cheers!Partner and Chief Product Officer at Bluesoft. Im passionate about software, UX, tech, agile and lean. Im also a writer, translator, podcaster  philosopher

Culture has become a new buzz word among startups. I keep hearing it everywhere I go but, IMHO, a lot of entrepreneurs (sometimes even me) do not completely understand what a company culture is. I am extremely proud of the fact that we grew to 60 people with almost no one leaving the company. Two people did leave — One early employee left to go to school and another quit to start doing his own thing.@Yotpo, we built our Still, a question that kept bothering me is this: how can we measure our company culture? If we can’t measure it, we can’t know if it’s working — so after a lot of thinking I believe I found the formula: E-ChurnThe equation should be:# of Employees who quit /# of Total EmployeesIf you built a great company culture then your employees like to come to work, are value-driven and feel that they are a part of something great. If you succeed in creating such an environment, then who the hell would want to leave? Of course, they could probably be better paid somewhere else but they are staying for something else, something money cannot buy.It also works the other way around. If you are culture-focused and someone is not a good cultural fit then you should let them go — and I know a lot of conventionally successful companies that are making tons of money or growing their user base quickly, but I define them as so-so companies. Why? Because they have a terrible culture and a lot of their key people keep leaving.Just as customer churn is judged differently depending on whether your company sells to small businesses or enterprise customers, e-churn should be judged based on the size of your company. Although this is a relatively new phrase, I believe the numbers should be around:If your startup is =20 ppl → good e-churn= 0%If your startup is between 20 and 100 ppl - good e-churn = 5%If your startup is more than 100 people - good e-churn =10%If you are e-churn focused then:I’m surprised that more investors don’t ask about this — if I was an investor, e-churn is the first thing I would ask a company about. This metric is far more important, and telling, than revenue growth or customer churn. BTW, Yotpo’s e-churn is 2.6%.Co founder of 

As I drove up to Purdue I was terrified. I was so anxious that tears started falling down my face. This was the day I was moving into college and I was crying in the backseat of my parents’ car. For the first time in my life I was in charge of my future and responsible for my own fate, and that scared me shitless.A couple months into my first semester of college I felt lonely, extremely lonely. I consider myself an introvert and I felt like it was me versus this monstrous machine called Purdue. I hadn’t formed a close group of friends and I still didn’t have any real understanding of my future. I was all on my own, alone.He lived a couple of doors down from me in my dorm and we’d exchanged a few words here and there. Then I began to notice he was going out at night. I immediately thought to myself And there I was, preparing to go to a big college party. He told me it was his brother Luke’s place and I should just meet him there. So I get to the apartment and shyly knock on the door. A taller guy with bushy hair opens the door, stares at me and mutters They filled me a mug with warm cider and talked to me about life, school and computers. Jack, the bushy-haired stranger who answered the door, became one of my closest mentors. Luke, Evan’s older brother, always welcomed me to all of their parties. And Evan has been my roommate for the past year.I would watch these two older students and listen perplexed as Jack and Luke talked about all of their endeavors. They had started this rag tag community on campus called Purdue Hackers and they were helping organize the first ever BoilerMake. So I get to pipe in and ask Then decision day came, and I got rejected. I got rejected to my own school’s hackathon. It felt like a sucker-punch right in the stomach.A couple weeks later I was talking to my friend Spencer who was helping organize BoilerMake. I tried desperately to convince him to sneak me in. He kept on telling me that there were only a limited amount of spots and not everyone gets in. But then the day of the BoilerMake something magical happened. Buses full of hackers were arriving from across the midwest. To my fortune some of the buses didn’t bring as many hackers as expected and now there were open seats at the hackathon. I packed up my laptop, put on my coat and trekked all the way across the street to attend my first ever hackathon, BoilerMake.I teamed up with a few friends from my dorm and we sat around a table trying to decide what to make. I was a whopping two weeks into my first CS course and I felt like I had a decent handle of Java. So we decided to make an android app. Cool we’re onto something. Now we had to decide what the app actually is. We looked at some of the prizes decided to do a diet tracker and before we knew it we were well on our way.A couple hours in I realize I knew nothing about Java. A couple hours after that we got a picture to show up on a Kindle. A couple hours after that we have a basic UI built out. And then we got stuck. The premise of our app was that you would select what food you ate and we’d tell you how many calories it was, super complicated stuff. But where in the world do we get a listing of calories for every possible food product? An API? Nah we didn’t know what that was.Then there it was, a giant list of every food imaginable with all of it’s nutrition facts listed out in a beautiful excel spreadsheet. But how do we actually use this information? Simple, my friend who was handy with Python created a script to crawl through this spreadsheet and generate over A couple hours later we’re presenting our hack, explaining to the judges how we used Python to write Java code and watched as they stared at us in disbelief. We didn’t win anything, we never published the app, but we learned a shit ton.Since then I’ve travelled to Michigan, Illinois, Pennsylvania, New York City, Kansas City, and San Francisco in search of awesome hackathons. In the past two years I’ve made an iOS app, three different pebble apps, two android apps and more web apps than I know what to do with. I’ve been able to spend the past year doing something I love and I have the people at Purdue to thank.If wasn’t for that mug of warm cider I would have never met those I call my closest friends. If it wasn’t for the collective advice of some upperclassmen I would still be on track to be doing research in Biomedical Engineering.It’s my honor to be the Director of the very experience that changed my life. It’s my duty to ensure BoilerMake can change lives as it did mine. As I descend from this journey called college I feel it’s my time to give back. This year the BoilerMake organizers are working their asses of to make sure we can provide an experience tailored to you, no matter who you are.We will feed you some of the best food you’ll ever taste at a hackathon.We are bringing back the BoilerMake boards with twice the fire power.We will answer your every request at the tap of a button.We will fly students from across the country.We are here to serve you, our hackers.As always, at no cost to you.This is our time to give back, because that’s the Purdue Culture.— Ben AlderferA 36 Hour Hackathon at Purdue.

Yesterday, I was chatting to a friend who’s visiting from her new home, San Francisco. She joked that London seemed a little old fashioned because she’s become used to ordering cookies online, which arrive, warm, within half an hour.It’s “convenience culture”, the wave of apps and services where everything from taxis to sweethearts are on demand and accessible with just the swipe of your thumb, and nowhere is this more visible than in SF, from I had to laugh. A few Sundays ago, I spent a couple of frustrating hours refreshing This was the day after visiting Carsten Höller’s Decision at the Complete inconvenience culture.London has always excelled in the virtually impossible to find basement bar (the more chic the bar, the more likely it is to be an ex-prison toilet, or something like that), the limited-edition collaborative trainer or the no-booking 16-seat restaurant where you’ll need to queue in the rain for a chance of wolfing down their delicious £18 slider.Reducing supply creates a rarified experience with attached status which certain people will always seek out (yes, I’m one of them; yes, I’m not very proud of that sentiment, seen written down). You could argue that many culture creators don’t intentionally seek to limit access. The rise of no bookings in UK restaurants is pretty new; check out this But as many experiences become easier — from ordering a healthy takeaway dinner to one-hour book delivery — it’s interesting we’re more drawn than ever to inconvenient culture. Rarified experiences that aren’t necessarily expensive but where the cost is the time you take to get access.When I was growing up, the kids at school with status had nice trainers; in a city where flats are small and we’ve hit On the day You Me Bum Bum Train tickets went on sale, I was chatting on Twitter with three or four other people doing the same thing. We shared queue numbers and sold-out rumours. None of us managed to get tickets.The shared experience of failing.Funny, eh?Head Googles 

Bean chairs, free unlimited meals, Nespresso coffee machines, a slide in the middle of the office… An endless list of cool perks that run the charm of the biggest startups and companies around the globe. A list that many confuse with culture.A couple of months ago, Miguel, CEO at Rodati, told me: “Lu, I would like us to start working on Rodati’s culture. I think it’s a tad messed up.” It wasn’t because the people that work at Rodati were unhappy. They weren’t. It wasn’t because culture didn’t exist (it always does). But we weren’t sure if the people were happy because they had unlimited snacks or because of what they did. We weren’t sure that the culture that was surfacing reflected what we aspired.At the time we assumed the challenge of guiding our culture I found an In order to do that, we decided to start by re-building our core values, base of any culture.I would like to say it all has turned up better than expected and I would like to tell how that happened step by step.As any other company, we had a set of core values and we also had something called “the cornerstones of our culture”. They were set when Rodati was just 5 people and now we were almost 20, so things had changed a lot.So the first logical step was to organize that awful set of values and culture cornerstones. A lot of questions came up: “Did it still make sense for the company we were now? Was all of it important? Should it be this long?”.So we read and re-read everything over and over until we ended up with the set of concepts we thought were still important for us and the company. We deleted everything else and we added a few other things that were missing.Of course, a bunch of concepts and lose words lack of cohesion. And that take us to step 2.It is very important that, when performing this task, you keep in mind your audience. Luckily, your audience is the people you work with and, even though you may not know every single one of them, generally companies tend to have very similar profiles among their employees. You know what drives them, what kind of intellect they have, what things may or may not impact them.It wasnt easy to compile all of these ideas and transform them into a compelling speech. It took quite some brainstorming and writing skills.We gathered all of those ideas and grouped into a limited number of concepts (seven, to be accurate). We created catchy, simple and short titles to title each group and wrote a short description of what that meant.Since we are company that works to improve the car-buying experience in Latam, we usually try to relate everything to cars. And this was no exception.What came out of this exercise was the All of this gained a section at our internal Wiki, so it would be properly documented and accessible for anyone in the company, with a video summary of the written part (for the people who have a more auditive memory or don’t really like reading).Once everything was properly documented and had reached a good level of clarity, it was time that people knew about this. Moreover, it was time for people to embrace it.In Patrick Lencioni’s First of all, we introduced the topic at our Weekly Newsletter within a tale story. Then, we held a Rodati Meeting (that is our staff meeting. Everyone at Rodati attends it) and told the people about what we had been working on and why. Afterwards, we sent a quiz to test how much people understood and learnt these remastered values. It didn’t score very well so we made a more agressive campaign: we revisited the subject in subsequent meetings, included a value in every Weekly Newsletter, prepared examples, sticked signs in our kitchen wall, bring up values while having daily conversations…By the end of the quarter, we sent the quiz again and it scored 99% of values embrace.It is known that culture experiences transformation and change, adapting to internal or external factors. That also applies to company culture.Last week we kept iterating with our values and culture and we found new ways to name them, using our own company slang (yes, we do have that!). We believe that would make them more approachable and they will reflect even more who we are. We haven’t tested this yet, but I would update to let you know :)We believe that it is important to revisit what you created and go back to step 1 (and through all of the other steps if necessary) every once in a while.As a final thought I would like to say that this is tip of the iceberg and there is much more to do in terms of culture. And it’s important that we do, because…A collection of the things that happen at Rodati.com

by Omar FadhilCorporate culture. The two Cs. Alliteration at its bleakest. The humanisation of cogs in a machine.23. Finance graduate. The corporate pessimist.This is how culture won over a cynic’s heart.A good culture has clear boundaries for complete exploration in development. A good culture is multi-dimensional and multi-layered. Don’t faux pas, damage relations and make a complete ass of yourself. Exceed expectations by getting to know your culture and let it guide Corporate culture is changing. Businesspeople are trading economics for philosophy. Values are trademarked. Ideologies are the new product extensions. Flipping between work and home like a fish on dry land creates conflict — best avoided when company culture allows oneself to be identified within it. To find harmony between the two requires a culture that individuals want to believe in and embed into everyday life. Behaviours and values shouldnt be confused with financial targets!Happy people buy into crazy ideas, and there is no place for cynics in revolutions. Ideologies breed culture, and it only takes a couple of bad ideas to build a culture that Culture is Were an innovation partner that specialises in empowering entrepreneurial change to make revolutions happenInnovative people, startups and companies that make revolutions happen

Made with product at slack.

I recently returned from a four-month trip across Latin America that was quite an amazing experience. For me, there is no doubt that the joy of travelling is experiencing different cultures and understanding what impact this has on modern society. I was armed with nothing more than a single rucksack with no room for new clothes, and an iPad equipped with ad-free content. Having escaped from the bubble that is the advertising industry, I started to question what a brands’ role is in terms of helping shape our own cultural identities and whether this relentless chase by brands to be culturally relevant is misguided.Why did Sao Paolo feel the need to ban all OOH advertising? Why was it that people were writing one-star reviews on Tripadvisor about the famous Salvador carnival saying that “In the past [the carnival] was more interesting, with lots of cultural manifestations, but nowadays all we see is a huge street party, commercially exploited by the alcoholic drinks industry with small brands or blocks”? Why did it take a UNESCO mandate for brands in Antigua, Guatemala, to produce signs that actually were faithful to the landscape?This got me thinking: Are brands killing culture?First, though, how do we define culture? Ask a senior creative and their definition may be different from yours. Georgia Barretta, UK Design Director at Geometry, defines it as “the collective noise of unadulterated person-hood-ly idiosyncrasies”. Personally, I was inspired on my travels by Joao Correia, an art dealer trying to monetise Pixo street art in Sao Paolo. He describes culture as “a navigation tool towards a more dignified human condition.” Ask Google and culture is “the arts and other manifestations of human intellectual achievement regarded collectively”, or “the ideas, customs, and social behaviour of a particular people or society”.With the latter definition in mind I took the question — are brands killing culture? — to a group of senior creatives from Creative Social Fresh, one of our six monthly gatherings of some of the most curious business leaders and creatives in the world.The Socials’ general consensus falls into three leading points. Firstly, in a desperate attempt to be relevant, brands are chasing culture, trying to grab attention from a young generation who are blocking ads. This leads to bad behavior driven by a number of factors, namely lack of patience. These days, we live in a world where the average tenure of a CMO is only 15 months. This pressure undoubtedly leads to campaign thinking as opposed to a more organic, longer-term — patient — approach to connecting with a new audience.Secondly, the ad industry is trained to pigeonhole people. Look at millennials and Generation Z, however, and we see this pigeonholing is simply no longer relevant. Kids are far more open to different experiences and therefore we need to be targeting niche groups and behaviours rather than stereotypes.Thirdly, agencies are part of the problem. Brands are not entirely to blame for getting things wrong. The fact is that artists tend to find it hard to work with agencies, which can overthink things rather than simply enabling stuff to happen. In particular, big UK agencies can suffer from Why are brands becoming more transparent? Social media. It is easy to spot when a brand is being inauthentic — when what they say or do at a marketing level is out of line with their true values and how they behave across the rest of their business. While people don’t think brands are ruining culture, there is no doubt that people lean towards brands with authentic, relevant and consistent messaging. Let’s be clear: the new generation fully understands the importance of brands and the role in their lives. Jason Fulton, Director of This Memento, a global qualitative consumer research and brand strategy agency, says: “When we ask kids to get involved in a survey which they know is in relation to a brand, only one in a hundred say no. And these are likely to live in Berlin”.Certain brands, of course, are a great enabler of culture. Spotify and Airbnb shine through, while fashion brands can actually Unfortunately, there is no formula for cultural brand relevancy; trying to piggyback existing cultural trendsRed Bull was clear from the outset about what they do with music Converse also understands their role inUltimately, I agree with my fellow Socials from the CS Fresh event: brands will never kill culture — they simply aren’t that powerful. However, trying too hard to be part of culture in a way that is not relevant or authentic may well kill the brand.A global collective whose purpose is to unleash creativity by connecting the most progressive brands and creative leaders to business and culture.

There are many ways to destroy a culture. It can be destroyed by arrogance, hypocrisy or hubris. It can be demolished through bad leadership, nepotism, unchecked misogyny or other unethical practices.But, a pervasive lack of care might be the most effective way to destroy a culture. Whereas the list of sins above is obvious pathologies of an organization in decay, they are visible, and often manageable, vices. We tend to pay a lot of attention to these vices as they, by way of their visibility, draw our eye. And we tend to overestimate their importance as we underestimate the small things in our organizations.When you know what the enemy is, it becomes possible to combat it. So the most self-evident problems in your company’s culture might not be the most problematic ones at all because you’ve already identified them.How are organizations to understand factors that are not yet seen as problems, as they seem too small and minute to be worthy of attention? These can often be the most problematic and toxic factors of all, and lack of care is an excellent example.Imagine a meeting with the intention of discussing the importance of diversity in the company — an area that has been identified as a key weakness. In the meeting room are people from top management, middle managers, an excited diversity officer and various others, some at least in attendance for the donuts.The meeting goes the way many meetings often do: there are a few passionate people burning to open the discussion, and those failing to elicit much more than lukewarm responses using carefully coaxed language about how the issue is “Um… quite important. You know, strategically.” Some people become a bit more anxious. They start pressing the issue a little harder to get some type of response. The result? Pervasive silence as the other participants begin retreating into their shells.If you recognize this scenario — or a variation thereof — you may work in an organization with care issues. Many cultures have built-in defense mechanisms against new ideas that don’t show as visible resistance, but as something far subtler. We’ve been trained, by culture and by the media, to pay attention to things such as overt resistance to change and negative and aggressive attitudes — but the real enemy might be something much subtler.In my office meeting scenario, there is no overt resistance nor is there any aggression. No one is pounding the table saying, “I hate diversity”. No one is telling jokes that are racist, misogynistic, homophobic or any combination thereof. There is even broad agreement. And this might be the most dangerous scenario of all.There is sometimes a profound lack of care in companies. People turn up, not out of interest, but rather a sense of duty. People do not disagree, but nor do they engage. In fact, it would be preferable if they were to disagree. At least disagreement signals some level of caring and engagement. This attitude zaps the energy from those who care about injecting diversity and change intoa company.The other problem is that the passionate ones may not even themselves realize what it is that’s going wrong. Rather than having a clear enemy to combat, they come away with a vague sense of unease, an ennui brought on by an organization that doesn’t care.This is an area that leadership needs to focus on building great cultures. Organizations can battle the visible demons, the clear problems and the obvious flaws. Leadership is needed to deal with the more deeply rooted issues, the all but invisible ones. Granted, it is not easy to know where to start when dealing with a lack of caring. It doesn’t present itself as a singular issue, but as silent faces in meetings, as insufficient responses, as a lack of energy rather than as pathology. And, weak leaders often ignore this problem because there is nothing immediate and tangible to focus on.Great leaders, however, see the situation for what it is. If an organization has stopped caring it can be both invisible and at the same time visible in all things. In the way people talk to each other, in the time it takes for things to happen and in the way customers are dealt with. The task for leaders is to start dealing with this toxic state on the same level as it has occurred — in the small, almost imperceptible areas of the business.Way back when, when dinosaurs roamed the earth, we talked of something called “management by walking around”. This sounded first like tragedy, then as farce, but was in fact far more important than we gave it credit for. As the manager walked around, he or she was able to see culture as it actually happened, not as it was portrayed in cheerful meetings and corporate brochures. The manager was on the lookout for the little things that signaled that employees had already mentally checked out, the things that were harbingers of greater problems.Anyone can, and should, speak up when there are clear problems — arrogance, nepotism or harassment. But it takes a leader, or at least the soul of one, to address the way in which care dissipates out of an organization — the way in which the smallest and seemingly most insignificant of things can be the ones that slowly make an organization slump into a torpor.We need organizations that care, so we need leaders who care about their culture. Leaders who will not allow important questions to be met with tepid platitudes. Leaders who will not let people remain unengaged. Leaders who care enough about the big picture that they engage with the little things they’re built from.In any organization, there is a plethora of things about which it is said, “Who cares?” The answer, always, is, “A leader should and will.”Professor of management, speaker, writer, and popular culture geek.with Alf Rehn

Almost every startup wants to have a great culture — similar to that of Zappos.com in Las Vegas, Nevada created by the one and only Tony Hsieh or like that of Social Tables in Washington D.C. founded and grown by Dan Berger.While all Startups worry about paying the bills and thriving in the long run, all want to think about culture but most don’t have the time or resources to do so.I have been fortunate enough to intern at Zappos.com for 9 weeks in which I have seen Zappos.com from an insiders perspective, become friendly with a handful of Social Tables employees, as well as worked with a few different startups over the past few years. The key that all of them embody and truly promote is that culture drives their decisions, mission, and how they interact with customers and competitors.If you are interested in forming a successful startup that can resist the ups and downs of life, I would highly suggest following a culture first model that Social Tables and Zappos embody 24/7. How do I do this if I am a startup and we are just working each day to keep the lights on? Great point! Now ask yourself a question, if you enjoyed working with your co-workers and truly understand how they function at work and outside of work, will you and your co-workers be able to accomplish more? Your answer should be YES! If not, then you either need to leave the company or change your mindset.At Wednesday’s we try to go to the In addition, we try to We are a team and we work together in every aspect of the startup. We learn new things from each other everyday. Everyone has their nitch, their special talent and we all depend on each other to have the team move forward. A lot of companies have great ideas and great products but a great team behind it makes it all that much better.Bringing new people on, we think long and hard about not only their credentials but also their personality and work ethic. Can they work really really hard and also be laid back and relaxed. We refuse to bring people onto the team that we feel would jeopardize the community that we have naturally and organically grown among us.Sign up to be a beta user, visit Co-Founder Demere.co. “If opportunity doesn’t knock, build a door”Dress with Confidence.

Have technical leadership.Have a good mentorship program.Care about code quality  testing.Promote collaboration among disciplines.Have language specific style guides.Dedicate 20% of work time on side projects.Force pairing upon the developers.Have architectural decisions solely made by the leadership.Say “I’ve always done it this way”, “Everyone does it this way” or even “Pivotal does it this way”.Believe that a ping-pong table, a beer fridge, a company t-shirt or a free lunch is culture.contemplating existentialism and the mastery of software craft

When we’re developing software, we don’t just expect it to turn out great by chance. We design and code for greatness: agile, prototyping, test driven development, continuous integration, among other engineering practices.But practices are not enough. We also need a great team.When creating a great team, you can’t just hire great people and then expect greatness to emerge by chance. That’s not enough. You need a great company culture, and unfortunately culture tends to be created in “silent mode”. We’ve been trying the “verbose mode” at I’d like to share the importance we give to the first day of anyone who joins the team.After a demanding recruitment process, where the candidate has already spent a day in the company (and maybe one day we’ll write about that experience here), he or she arrives eager to start working. But before anything else, we have a conversation about values. We believe first things should come first, and when you want to create a great team, values are the foundations you should build on. And the foundations, as I learned in elementary school, come before the walls ☺There are three values you ought to follow if you want to work with us. We will talk about them in order of importance.This is too important to be left to chance.We build great software for innovative clients

Dear Jeff:Like so many others, I read the recent NYT article about Amazon with a mix of disbelief and despair. On one hand, I deeply admire Amazon for your many successes. As an Amazon customer I am grateful for the convenience you have brought to my life. Yet on the other hand, I believe strongly in the critical role of healthy workplaces in nourishing the human soul and, thereby, contributing to healthy families and societies.It’s easy to read this article as a hatchet job. It’s also easy to read it as an exposé. I suppose it’s always easy to find whatever meaning we like in a piece of writing.But I don’t think either of these narratives are particularly interesting or productive. The lesson here likely lies somewhere in the murky middle.I assume that some of the anecdotes shared in the article are true. Perhaps they all are. Even so, I do not believe that Amazon is a Dickensian nightmare. I believe it is possible for a company to produce some horrible behavior and also not be defined by it.What’s interesting to me in all of this is not what these anecdotes tell us about Amazon today, but what they indicate Amazon could become in the future.That is why I think you ought to pay attention. Less because of the short-term impact to reputation. Scandals of every sort blow over and people move on. It’s the long-term implications of this to your business that should be of concern.If a business has one brand, division or region that is underperforming, other brands, divisions or regions can make up the difference and the business is just fine. Not so with culture. This dynamic is not important because it gives the media and others fodder to criticize Amazon. You will always have critics. It’s important because this sort of cultural toxin will corrode your engine of revenue and profit.If Amazon employees are feeling fulfilled, not just as employees but in their lives in general, their sense of joy will be infectious. Customers will feel it. And it will make us want to do business with you more. The converse is also true. If employees feel disrespected, demeaned, exhausted, customers will feel it. It will degrade our experience of Amazon and make us much more susceptible to the allure of alternatives.Perhaps no one has understood this better than your very own Tony Hsieh. “At Zappos, our belief is that if you get the culture right, most of the other stuff — like great customer service, or building a great long-term brand, or passionate employees and customers — will happen naturally on its own.”Jeff, perhaps you’ll allow me to share a little advice: Embrace this moment as a gift. As painful as it must be to read such a negative representation of the company you founded and hold so dear, the Times has done you an immeasurable favor by shining a light on some forces at play in your culture that, if left unchecked, will cause you much more pain than a newspaper article ever could.Now is the moment to take a hard look at Amazon’s culture, to re-dedicate yourself to the principles you hold dear and to galvanize your entire workforce to embrace their fullest potential — as individuals, parents, sons, daughters, friends, members of communities, as Amazon employees and also as a collective force for social good.We are all wishing you well.AdamPassionately in search of people who are themselves

The single most important advice Peter Thiel (Co-founder of PayPal  Palantir) gave to Brian Chesky (CEO of He didn’t say You can think of company culture as the DNA or genetic code of the organization. The personality of a person determines how he or she thinks and behave. Similarly, a company’s culture and values determine how the organization functions and operates.So why is this so important? Why should you care about this? Well, similar to how you should not ignore an employee with personality issues, you need to guard and actively shape your company culture. Bad culture affects the entire company and reduces productivity. Once rooted, a culture is very hard to change, so it’s better to start cultivating it as early as possible.If you are running a company and have not thought about the type of culture you want, you need to start NOW. Get your whole team together and work out the values and principles you all believe in as a company. Starting out may be difficult but the good news is there’s no monopoly on any culture and values. You can cherry pick those you like from other companies. In fact, the easiest way to start is to emulate what other companies are doing and adapt them to your needs.However, you do need everyone in your company to be onboard. Your team as a whole must be involved in defining the company’s culture. Not the other way round. You as the founder or management can’t pick one and then make everyone do it. That’s a policy and a culture you should avoid.Since I’ve had first-hand experience working at 2 companies (The most common and On the first Friday of the month, unless they are working on something critical or time-sensitive, every single Mindvalley employee is encouraged to learn something new. They could either attend learning sessions conducted by their peers or venture into something new on their own. They are given the freedom to learn anything they want during work hours for that day.Another simple thing you could do is setup a company book budget. Mindvalley has a quarterly book budget where employees can order any book from Amazon and the company will pay for it. Over time, you will build up this massive library of books which will benefit both existing and new employees.Obviously, every company would want their employees to be as productive as possible. So this is usually implicit in the culture but varies greatly on how it is encouraged or enforced. Ideally, you should work towards a more result-oriented working environment.Both Says.com and Mindvalley have flexible working hours and allow their team to work remotely. This may sound counter-intuitive but allowing employees to choose when and where they work, actually improve their well-being which will then lead to greater productivity. You do need to set some limits and rules to prevent abuse.Your workplace is like your second home. You’ll be spending a lot of time in it, so why not make it fun. Going to work doesn’t have to feel like a chore. Invest in a vibrant space that inspires creativity, foster collaboration and improves happiness. Happy employees is good for business.Says.my Hideout is an open-concept workspace utilizing lots of wood, bricks and glass for a minimalist industrial look. On the other hand, Mindvalley office has a super-hero theme which is inline with their mission to push humanity forward.Within Mindvalley, there’s also a secret society called The take-away here is to find innovative and creative ways to make work less boring and more fun. Given a choice, everyone would want more fun at their workplace. And since you’re the boss, do the right thing. Inject some fun into your workplace.Studies have shown colleagues and co-workers who are friends with each other produce better results. They are happier and are more engaged at work when they are working with people whom they trust and respect.To improve the bond between your team, you need to encourage them to do things together. At Says, breakfast is provided every morning and the team is encouraged to have their first meal of the day together at the pantry.Since there are more than 30 different nationalities in Mindvalley, they have Annual Team Retreat is also a great way improve team dynamics and the bond between the team members. Mindvalley’s team retreats are legendary. Every year, they fly the entire team to a paradise island for a weekend of fun, growth and celebration.Some of these activities may require more resources than you can afford at the moment. You can always start with something simple like weekly team lunches or the occasional team outings. The point is to provide ample opportunities for your team to hang out with each other.Everyone prefers to work in a positive environment and the easiest way to foster one is to celebrate successes. Make it a point to always celebrate victories and accomplishments no matter how small it is. These recognitions will help encourage future successes.At Mindvalley, the entire team meets once a week for the All these efforts will encourage everyone in your team to share their wins and motivate each other to do their best so they too can get their moment of awesomeness.There’s no doubt transparency within the company will improve communication and productivity. Sharing metrics, numbers and concerns with your entire team will improve the clarity and accuracy of information.Every week, each team in Mindvalley sends a status report to the entire company. Everyone knows exactly how much revenue the company generated last week, what’s been done and not done. This transparency improves accountability and reduces mis-information.If you want to adopt a culture of transparency for your company, you as the founder will need to be an open-book and share as much information as you can with your team. Encourage everyone in your team to talk and share any concerns they may have with you through an open-door policy. Make yourself and the management team available and approachable.On my first week at Says, I was invited to a Mindvalley took the idea further and built an app to help employees show gratitude and appreciation at work. They named it They also built a public version named The easiest way to cultivate gratitude at work is to say thanks. Take the lead and thank your colleagues and co-worker for the hard work they have done. That little act of appreciation and recognition will go a long way.As the founder, it is quite common for you to talk about the dreams and visions you have for the company. Sharing them will help align your team to build towards the future together.But don’t forget that each of your employee have their own dreams and aspirations too. You should encourage your employees to dream bigger and do everything you can to help them get closer to their goals.Vishen Lakhiani, the Founder and CEO of Mindvalley ask every new hire a set of questions designed to draw out their dreams and aspirations. He does this because he wants to know what each employee is passionate about. These dreams and goals are then added to the You can use the video above to conduct a session with your team. Building a company is tough. All this talk about culture and values may seem unnecessary and distracting but nothing could be further from the truth. Having the right culture will go a long way in reducing the friction within the company. Good culture is like lubricant. The better it is, the smoother the ride.Start cultivating your company culture today. Figure out the values and principles your company stands for together as a team. Then get creative and come up with perks, policies and activities to nurture them. Your company and your team deserves a good culture.Ruby on Rails Dev who loves Product Dev, Tech, Education  blogs at Crafting products while chasing sunsets

In February 2008 I was first introduced to the notion that the first problem every designer faces is designing the organization. Bill Buxton at that time articulated wonderfully, that the biggest challenges we face as designers are overcoming the challenges we face from the very organizations we work for, in and with. Fast forward to 2014 and I’m in an audience watching Kim Goodwin During this time I’ve been growing as what I would call a junior design leader and have been on the front lines of this issue. I’ve been so engulfed in it, that it has been so difficult to tease apart the pieces. I’ve been like a fish who never feels the air.Lately, I’ve been in a lucky position where I’ve been surrounded by a lot of great (much more senior and successful) design leaders. But I have noticed something that even these great leaders haven’t been able to recognize; or at least they haven’t figured out how to articulate a strategy for dealing with it.What is this great “IT”? Well, it’s that culture by it’s very nature is against change. This isn’t a cognitive bias against change that human beings individually have. That’s a whole other matter. But culture at its very core is defensive of change. Why? Because if a culture changes, it is no longer the same culture. Cultures also weren’t meant to be so narrowly focused. Cultures were not meant to have a single agenda the way that businesses and productivity organizations do. So this rigidness inherent in culture is misplaced when misapplied to a structure which is meant to be a part of the whole.What does this mean for us? What resolution do we have in a post-industrial age where change is not just assumed, but required? And not just a constant and smooth change, but rather a disjointed chronic syncopation.For me it means removing culture from our discourse in business. Businesses aren’t around to create culture, but rather to impact culture (well society). Businesses are a tool of culture, not cultures in and of themselves and I posit that it is dangerous for productivity organizations to state they have cultures, no matter how well intentioned. This also means that we don’t want to create organizations with a “design culture”. This is just as wrong as any other culture one might create.What’s so bad? Businesses don’t have the luxury of blind spots and cultures no matter how seemingly beneficial, create blind spots. Even the most successful organizations in the world (I won’t name names, but you know who I’m talking about) have large blind spots that keep them from being even more successful, or more importantly being disrupted and being able to defend it.There is a reality here that makes this notion almost impossible to fulfill. People are inherently tribal. We thrive off of relationships. These relationships give us a since or predictable structure that helps put us at ease so our reptilian (why is it always reptiles?) can stop acting on fight or flight reflexes. The ability to say Us vs. Them means we can look outward for danger and look inward for comfort. That’s the problem though. We need to be looking inward for dangers just as much as outward when we are in a business context.Recently, in a tweet, this quote from Pixar (at least it is attributed to Pixar) came across my feed:I love this quote because of the humility it demonstrates. It’s easy to say we have talented people and that our job is to remove impediments, but it takes humility to publicly admit that you have the impediments as a given.So the goal here is not to create a culture of design. Rather it is to deculture your organization so that it can just be observant, transparent, open, aware, and have a purpose. Everything else should be in the service of the purpose(s) of the organization that in turn is in service also to the people who serve that organization.We have a quote here at @Rackspace by one of our main leaders, Graham Weston:I read this quote almost every day as it is posted in several places in our Austin office and I react. It is such a true statement for me. I don’t need a culture. I just need to know my purpose and be empowered to contribute towards it. Everything else is window dressing for me.Dave Malouf is the Principal Experience Strategist at HP Helion Cloud. He loves designing, traveling, teaching, observing, and playing.

I came across a post by But not everyone gets that chance.These made-up people want to take part in a hackathon but don’t necessarily have the opportunity, or an internal company hackathon isn’t the right fit for them.Fortunately, some companies run open hackathons that anyone can enter. You don’t have to be an employee or located in Silicon Valley. All you need is a spare day (or week), an internet connection and a device to hack on. Oh, and an idea. That’s the hard part, but rather a topic for another post. ✍A good hackathon enables participants to create or improve something without the traditional limitations of a job. I truly believe the Uber hackathon did just that.On Sunday I had the day to myself. I arrived in Seoul a few days before but had already seen the main attractions and eaten my way through the incredible food the city has to offer, so I had little more to do then build something for the Uber hackathon.My idea was simple — an easy (instant) way to view all your Uber stats in a fun and beautiful way. Not just the boring numbers like your ‘total rides’, but rather ‘hours spent in an Uber’, ‘time spent waiting for your Uber to arrive’ and ‘miles travelled in an Uber’. I wanted to add a leaderboard too, so people could get competitive and fight over who had the most rides.A day later I was done, and a day after that I launched it — But that’s not what this post is about.It’s about the fact that I had a spare day while travelling in Seoul and was able to build a cool app however (and whenever) I saw fit, due to being empowered by the freedom and flexibility of Uber’s open hackathon.At the time of writing, thousands of users have gone to Totals for Uber and seen their Uber stats, with tens of thousands viewing and using the site. I’ve had an amazing experience, interacting with the company and users, improving the app based on feedback and the users seem happy too!Internal company hackathons often lead to incredible innovations, like Facebook Chat (Messenger), but open hackathons? Well, like anything, when you hand over the responsibility to users, amazing things happen. You’re no longer limited by the size of your team or imposed time limits.An open hackathon gives you (a company) the chance to The rewards that a company stands to gain from hacking user culture are huge. Happier users lead to more frequent users. Products like Totals for Uber lead to sharing on social media and increased engagement with the product, which will often result in the acquisition of new users.Next time you run an internal company hackathon, consider running an external one too. Opening up your product through an API is the first step, but encouraging and supporting developers to build something with it is the next, and in my own opinion, far more important step.Developer at 

A few days ago, I was walking into the Student Center of my university campus and I was greeted by this poster. It was on the door and made me question if it was the same space I had used when I was a student there.There are neither official logos on this poster, nor a stamp of approval from the building operations. So I’m assuming it was posted by an individual. This is a letter to that individual person.So if you’re reading this,JK, no it’s not.The Student Center has a very special place in my heart. I used to work in the building as a Student Employee. I’ve had some of my most memorable college experiences, and I’ve met some of the most brilliant people here. My supervisors, my colleagues, and my friends all seem to have used the word, “melting pot” to describe the building at one point or another.It seems to me that you’re trying to prevent some of this melting from happening based on how people ought to be dressed. My culture has taught me to want equally good things for other people as I have received. And I feel this poster may turn people away and prevent them from having memorable experiences and meeting brilliant people, just as I did. I don’t want that to happen.Now I can go on and on about the grammar mistakes in the poster, or how it contradicts its own message at least twice or how it seems to be strictly aimed at controlling what women cannot wear, but I won’t.My culture has taught me (the hard way) to not mock (especially online). I’d rather share what I have learned to make the world a better and safer space.Back in 1976, this guy called I was taught this model and urged to focus on the ‘culture’ of people as opposed to their ‘Culture’ in almost every orientation activity, icebreaker, and staff training in university.Of course, this is 2015 and we’re in a desert, not on the Titanic. Therefore, allow me to present Ahmed R. Hashmi’s Desert Rose model of culture.The model assumes that it’s very easy to dismiss a desert as a ‘bunch of sand and rocks’ and not realize that there are intricate and unique roses right under that same bunch of sand and rocks.Similarly, it’s very easy to reduce a person to the color of their skin and the clothes they use to cover however much of said skin they please. And not realize that they are intricate and unique people, each with their own life story and the capacity to interact with other stories beyond their physical appearances.On a university campus, allowing and encouraging these stories to interact, evolve and expand beyond the status quo shouldn’t be viewed as revolutionary. It should be a norm.I’d like to take this opportunity to credit the co-author of the Desert Rose model of culture, Sting.I’ve recently started living with two roommates and I’ve been enlightened by the beauty of shared space, once again. Let me tell you a story:There are three people living in the apartment, and only one prayer mat. One of us offers the Muslim prayer, Sharing the same space doesn’t make either of their practices any less valid, and neither does it decrease the value of the prayer mat. If anything, it increases its value as the mat is now useful to more people. This right here, is the beauty of shared space.The Student Center is a shared space for more than 60 nationalities, and hopefully, will always will be. Let’s not stand in between the space and who it was made for, the students.Breathe.Allow its beauty to overcome prejudices, racial biases, and insecurities. Allow its beauty to stimulate physical and intellectual growth, provide a safe space, and uncover desert roses.We can do this. We must.Drama King. Also, I let the dogs out.

A few weeks ago, my partner and I spent a good thirty minutes taking stock of the cultural situation in our lives —specifically, the amount of Indian culture my daughter was exposed to. The alarming conclusion: almost zero. There are many ways to “teach” culture and I have always felt that the most effective way to narrate heritage is through food, music and language.Let’s assess:1) Food — I think we2) Until three weeks ago, she was not taking any music or dance lessons from an Indian teacher. Her only exposure to music was via violin lessons at a Western classical music school. She enjoys this experience so much it never occurred to us to look elsewhere.3) She is 4) She is not allowed to watch Indian shows or movies (although this doesn’t exactly count as “culture”). Bollywood is grappling with its own issues about what is ‘modern’ and what is not. I really don’t want my five-year old watching as they deal with their identity crisis through the gyrations and pelvic thrusts of women clad in thongs and bikinis5) We celebrate all the Indian festivals and visit the local Indian temple often, but we have done nothing to explain Indian mythology, the myriad gods and goddesses, the rituals. If we had been living in India, we would have been surrounded by all the imagery and symbolism of religious India, and explanation would have been redundant. Here, everything is a story to be told second-hand.We decided to take some tentative steps towards answering these questions by enrolling her in voice lessons with a local South Indian classical music teacher. I remember my music teacher in India and she was, in one word, strict. I was afraid of her, I respected her and I worried very much about mistakes, but I always remember this time in my life with fondness and triumph. My daughter lives in a different world, a world where every child gets a trophy for participation. We couldn’t wait to find out if she accepted my world without complaint, or if she ran from it traumatized and hurt.Our comparative experience…Ms. J gives her a private lesson on Thursdays. Group lessons on Saturday morning can be either a violin lesson or a “musicianship” session (where she learns about music literacy). While these terms sound complicated and stressful, the classes are pure fun and joy.Ms. J has the patience of a saint, a soothing voice and a perpetual smile. My daughter looks forward to every class, brings drawings and gifts for her teacher and they have a relationship that is heartbreakingly beautiful. Every class is peppered with motivational statements that invariably begin with “I love how you….” I am sometimes frustrated that we don’t get enough negative feedback, but that is not the Suzuki way. There may be twenty things wrong, but you always start by talking about the positive things first.In the Musicianship class, Ms.C is practically a magician. At 9 Am on a Saturday she has managed to get everyone in her class to giggle and gallop and skip. This is a group of kids ranging from age 3 to 6. She urges them to find their singing voice and tells us parents “don’t worry — they will get it eventually.” As they skip and hop and wave scarves around, they grasp important concepts about notes, musical range, tempo, etc.Ms. N calls us for a trial class to see if my daughter even has a singing voice. Ms. N is an excellent singer and we notice that even when she speaks — her voice booms with authority. She asks my daughter to sing any Indian song (my daughter knows none). Fortunately, I have taught her the basic “Sa Ri Ga” (the “Two weeks of group lessons later I have discovered many new things about my daughter; she loves music in all shapes and forms. She loves to sing and practices everywhere, all day long. She has a great singing voice, which is manifesting itself so quickly because her teacher is pushing her to sing the highs and lows. She doesn’t understand the words she is singing, but she can memorize with a mental agility that is common only in children. Sanskrit words are no longer a problem. She is working on rolling those r’s…that will take some time. Occasionally, her teacher might get annoyed at a mistake in class, and say something like “Don’t make me upset, or you will be upset” and I hold my breath wondering if these tiny little beings are going to dissolve into tears, but they start giggling and the teacher laughs in response.1) 2) 3) Culture is a messy and complicated term. There isn’t one way to explain it to your kids, soThis essay appeared on my blog at Follow Culture Club on Sign up for Culture Club’s I parent, blend cultures, work, cook, run, bridge generations, attempt to shrink ocean space (sometimes all at once!). Blogger at MacAndChutneyMom.comA black magazine for people too hip for black magazines. Get at us: 

Great. You’ve got cool office space, unlimited snacks and some crazy thing in the lobby. The media’s buzzing about your culture, your company’s getting nominated for awards, and resumes are piling up like crazy.It’s the classic culture story.But, we all understand that it’s certainly more than providing a fun and lucrative work environment. Building a great office environment is just the beginning. Creating a culture that is at the center of strategy is where you find value. Then, culture becomes a competitive advantage. An advantage that is difficult to reproduce.However, it is not easy to create. A great work place is largely intangible. The key in creating true differentiation requires vision, communication, transparency and commitment by A lot of companies do what we do. Building software and configuring complex data center environments isn’t the hard part, believe it or not. Even if it means missing an important meeting to help your daughter move into college. It’s who we are. At the core, we exist for the betterment of each other. To help one another provide for our families and give each other a place to thrive and learn. However, we all know that in order to have this we have to keep the lights on, so to speak. It’s “how” we accomplish “why.” It will mean working longer hours, because a deadline is approaching. Or, helping out on a project because Mike wants to attend his son’s first soccer game. It’s how we have to think.In turn, this mentality creates When an organization can create that mindset, culture becomes a commitment of everyone — not just a select few.However, culture So what — you’ll make mistakes. Everyone just has to admit their shortcomings. CEO’s screw up, developers screw up….clients change course, it’s business. Everyone fails — and that’s OK. Encourage vulnerability.Knowing where you struggle starts with curiosity and good feedback mechanisms. Engage willingly, encourage feedback, and make quick decisions.Still, businesses have to evolve. Continued growth and innovation will require companies to change the way they do things. And there are ways to do this — new offerings, acquisitions, among many other things. However, maintaining culture and belief during these changes, we believe, requires a particular strategy. Specifically, the recognition and alignment of champions. This includes the formal leaders, but also the informal influencers.There’s a lot of power in these individuals. They are the ones that lead teams, make decisions, tell stories and exemplify your culture. As teams grow or companies pivot, it’s crucial to engage with these individuals to remind them of their impact.Every quarter, we host an OST Influencers Meet-up, where we talk about culture and guiding principles in relation to what’s happening in their worlds…..and just have open dialogue.Months ago, we printed a bunch of these little guys. Note cards with OST’s Guiding Principles. We don’t have mission statements around here — just 4 principles that guide us and remind us. We have them on walls in all of our offices. Many even keep one at their desk. These cards provide us with a great opportunity to reinforce our purpose and hold ourselves accountable.From office posters, Influencer Meet-Ups, to quick conversations — organizations have a responsibility to identify opportunities to meaningfully reinforce its purpose.We’re human. We get upset. Frustrated. Take for granted things we should appreciate. Sometimes, all it takes are reminders, conversations, or laughter to remind us what our end goal is, It’s a constant practice. It’s a strategy. And if done right, it becomes a competitive advantage.Moral of the story: don’t set out to build the best office environment, set out to build a culture at the center of strategy.—OST offers IT, security and software development consulting services tailored to Health Care, Manufacturing/Distribution,  Finance/Insurance industries.

Tips to remain connected to your studio culture while working inside a clients officeAt Made by Many we believe in working extremely closely with our clients. So closely that our NYC studio regularly sends teams to work from within our client’s offices. The last few months I’ve worked from two different client offices. For the past two projects my morning commute involved skipping my normal subway stop and the Made By Many office to head straight to the client’s office. With my changing routine I found it was a slippery slope to being completely disconnected from our studio culture.These are some tips I’ve found over the last 2 months to maintain a connection with HQ while working embedded.There are tons of pro Slack articles out there right now, so I’ll save the details. The key take away is having a direct link to your co-workers and company keeps you in-sync with day to day studio life. You remain on the inside of inside jokes, you chime in with your weekend plans, and you know what new projects are in the works. All of this stuff is important and always changing. The mundane details are as vital as the big announcements. In MxM NYC alot can change in a week or two. Not being physically present shouldn’t mean you’re out of the loop.Culture is born out of routines. If something happens regularly you grow to expect it and slowly it becomes a part of a culture. I missed key points in my regular work routine after being away at a clients. Things like the team walk to lunch where we talk about everything but work. But I learned to replicate that routine with my embedded co-workers and introduce it to my clients. Even the clients I didn’t work directly with were as curious about who we were are as we where about them. Ask them what the best food is nearby and invite them to come with. You’ll build up a better relationship with them and reduce the new person barrier.Sometimes you need to escape. I missed our studios semi-regular late afternoon coffee runs. Our embedded team made a point that every day around 3 we’d go out for a cappuccino. Of course we’d offer to pick up something for our clients, but we made a point to go out alone. This let us vent about the day, review the day’s progress, and plan process changes to adapt to a client’s changing needs. Had we been working at HQ this would be a small break out meeting at our desks. Working embedded means we need to get away sometimes.This takes some getting used to. We work super close without clients which means we treat them just like another member of the team. However there is still a certain level respect because they are the client, meaning we need to maintain a professional opinion within vicinity. Working embedded means this attitude needs to change a little. We discover, iterate, and stumble through problems along side them everyday. There are fewer moments to form a polished point of view. Making the client an equal part of the team becomes even more important. Whiteboard along side them, make mistakes in-front of them, disagree with them, just like you would a teammate. An important relationship shift for me came when I started assigning our client tasks. The same way I’d ask a teammate to pull together something or get back to me with an idea, I did the same with the client. Even more than before the problems and solutions were something we were tackling together.Going back to the home studio once a week to stay connected to everyone I like working with was vital for me. Most of my co-workers would wait until I was around to ask non-time sensitive questions. I can’t underestimate the value of being physically available. Sitting at my desk and hearing the conversations happening around the studio syncs me back in with what’s been happening since I was gone. It’s fastest way to upload to everyone about my projects and get up to speed with what the entire studio had been doing.Working embedded brings you closer to your client. It gives you a direct feed to the problems they have hired you to help solve, and reduces the lag time for answers or approvals to almost zero. It’s a great way to move through problems at a staggeringly fast pace. Being embedded offers the opportunity to reflect on your own company culture while being exposed to new ways of working as a team. These tips helped me remain connected to the larger company while benefiting from working embedded. It’s a delicate balance to remain connected while remote, and to stay motivated and productive away from the rest of the studio.Designer, coffee drinker, photographer and writer of the blog Field Series

There is no consensus on company culture, so some companies do not even pretend to have one. Their mission statements are “achieve US$1 billion in market value by 2020″ or “maintain sales growth of 20% per year”. In addition to being a failure of the imagination, this approach is unlikely to achieve even these narrow definitions of success precisely because of the lack of culture.There are more companies with relatively inspiring official mission statements such as “innovation for a better future” and “making the world healthier”. These are complemented by statements of values, such as “The reality is that organizational culture is not created by the slogans on a website or giant posters hanging on office walls. Culture is created by everyday habits.Why are habits so important? Habits are simple ideas but messy in reality. For example, the idea of curiosity. Many companies would benefit by having more curiosity as a core value. But how would you turn curiosity into a habit, a true value, rather than simply an empty statement?First, start with a small win. For example, Friday Pizza Questions, a Friday afternoon pizza session when people can sit down and ask interesting questions. No answers, just questions. Over time, you will build up a list of questions and start to notice patterns. In addition, people will get into a habit of asking questions just for the sake of asking questions. They will start to ask more questions during the week. Build from there.Friday Pizza Questions contains the 1. Trigger / cue: Friday afternoon2. Routine: ask a question3. Reward: mmm, pizzaMost importantly to build a lasting habit, you then have to repeat until it is automatic.Having an inspiring mission statement is a starting point to build a successful culture, but mission and values must also align with habits. Start small, then repeat and grow.Startups, karate and serendipity. All things #startup, venture capital,  #technology. Content of all lengths and variations. Currently looking for writers. Email me: 

Existing in limbo, between two cultures.“Where are you from?”That’s the dreaded million dollar question. I’m from Chicago, but I’m a Canadian citizen since I lived in Toronto for four years. BUT I’m technically from China since I was born there and emigrated when I was five. Quite the mouthful.I’m part of the modern Chinese diaspora to Canada in the early 2000s due to the laxer immigration policies compared to those of its southerly neighbor. Though eventually, chasing employment, my father did move us across the border in 2006 when I was in fourth grade. My formative years were spent living comfortably in a middle class neighborhood in the western suburbs of Chicago. Born into one culture and raised in another — I’m what you’d call a third culture kid.Living in the West, my parents tried their best to raise me in both cultures. Mom always cooked Chinese meals at home to keep my palates familiar with the cuisine and balance out the terrifying amount of Western food I consumed at school and with friends. My parents would place presents under our small 5 feet Christmas tree and distribute For a while I loved having the best of both worlds — experiencing terrific cuisines, soaking in the rich histories, learning the different traditions, and receiving twice the amount of gifts as everyone else. But that also meant I shouldered twice the burden. And the guilt that comes with it.History has determined the destinies of China and America and mine as well. Their cultures, from the values they hold to their attitude towards life, are the direct manifestation of that history. The Chinese commoners have experienced a history of oppression, from the ancient feudal lords along the Yangtze to the Manchurians riders from the steppes to the Imperialist aggressors from the West. Each demanded obedience and fealty, with the threat of death to those who contest that right of authority. As a result, the Chinese bend to authority and rather lower their heads than lose them. Better to hold your tongue than to have it chopped off.In essence, that’s how I was raised as well. I was told to follow orders instead of questioning them; my parents scolded me for speaking out of turn and for speaking my mind. When asked why I need to play piano everyday even though I didn’t like it, my mom told me to “shut up” and just play. And when my parents expressed that becoming a doctor or an engineer was the only path to success, I listened to them, until I didn’t.You see, from birth, Chinese children are taught to venerate their elders. Filial piety has been engrained into Chinese culture since the early days of Confucius. It’s customary for the youngest at the dinner table to pour tea for the elders. Sons and daughters, when they have grown up, are expected to care for their parents, and many times the parents end up moving into the same home as their children. In fact there is a Chinese law that fines sons and daughters who do not care for their elderly parents. There was even a time when a father’s decisions were ultimatum. A product of this environment, directly disobeying my parents wishes felt like I was dishonoring them.I lied and did not tell them I actually did not apply to a single engineering program. It was only until I accepted the offer from Babson College did they realize what I had done.I wanted to always heed my parents advice and respect their opinions, but I also wanted to exercise free will. America had taught me to be the master of my own destiny. In history class, we learned about Manifest Destiny and the American belief that better lands and opportunity awaited those who dared to be intrepid. Our heroes are those who have questioned the status quo set by figures of authority — from George Washington to Abraham Lincoln to Martin Luther King. We idolize those whose roads to success laid off the beaten path — think Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg, Sir Richard Branson.I struggled to reconcile the two cultures, but, at the same time, I also secretly despised my Chinese identity. I hated the stereotypes that came along with being Asian, that somehow we are all cut from the same mold and trained to be human calculators. I hated that we are forced to be twice as better to have a chance at being accepted into our dream school. I hated the bamboo ceiling. There were times I wished I wasn’t born Chinese because somehow the color of my skin and the letters in my name still limited me in an America that claimed to be colorblind. I’ve lived here for eight years now, but sometimes it feels like I still do not belong.But I don’t belong in China either. Legally my Chinese citizenship was revoked nine years ago. I can’t read or write and have the conversational fluency of a grade school student. I have no strong grasp of the current social climate. Thirteen years have gone by and the new China isn’t the China I left behind.Recently, I took a short trip back to China, flying out of Logan Airport at 8:00AM on May 7 (6 hours after I submitted my last final). Looking to make the most of my time as a business student, I had tea with an American-educated Chinese private equity investor whose early investments included Alibaba. I expressed my interest of possibly returning and doing business in China someday, only for him to immediately remark on the extreme difficulty of that feat. Being raised in the West had given me a completely different mindset than my Chinese counterparts.Here’s an example he used to demonstrate this. It actually happened at a startup he served as the interim CEO for.To the readers: what would your immediate thoughts be?For a founding team at a Chinese startup, they’d think that they aren’t good enough, and that’s the reason why you’d want to look for new talent. Again, history is the grand culprit behind this pessimism. China’s education system emphasizes on forcing students to prove their self-worth. From early on, test scores are the determining metrics for success. If you scored poorly on a test, you were deemed a failure and scolded by your teacher and parents. Contrast that to the American philosophy. Every kid gets a participation trophy. Their parents pat them on the back and tell them they’re a winner because they’re special. Not commenting on which system works the best, but, clearly, Chinese students developed a strong aversion to failure and believed any sign to be an obvious indication of their failure.How can I fit in with a people that I could hardly empathize with? Removed from the country, I lacked the formative experiences that crafted the Chinese identity, for better or for worse. I’d have to assimilate into Chinese culture like anyone else coming from overseas, albeit the process would be easier. I realized how unChinese I actually was.He claimed that someone can only be a part of one culture. You can’t have the best of both worlds because the world would have to come into conflict and you’d have to choose a side, from the values to choose to follow to the mindset you choose to have. This makes it easier to fit into one place. I sometimes wish I could just choose to exist in one culture; it would make life easier. He made it sound so easy, that you can forgo one the other. But how can I do that when bits and pieces of both of been so deeply ingrained in me? I can’t just pull them out. I can’t choose a culture just like how I can’t choose the color of my skin or what reproductive organs I have. I never really had a choice.Being a third culture kid, I really never had the choice of living in both cultures — only the choice of existing in the limbo between them.What Verse Will I Contribute?

I sat down yesterday to write job descriptions for a few positions we’re hiring for. Our job descriptions and application process is slightly different than most. We don’t collect resumes. We don’t put developers through a technical review. And we don’t describe ourselves by the perks we give to employees. While writing this up, It got me to thinking: what The boom in start-ups over the last 15 years has marked this new wave in how we portray our companies to prospective employees. Go find just about any startup that’s hiring and there’s likely a “culture” section on the job description that says something like: Free beer on Fridays (well, free beer everyday now)! Massages for everyone! Ping pong on the roof. FREE CHEF CRAFTED LUNCHES WHAAAAT?Don’t get me wrong. I love a free beer while I’m getting a massage while eating a farm-to-table lunch before going back to work (ok that’s never happened to me but I’ve heard stories you guys). And I can whip some ass at ping pong. But this does not a culture make.Culture, or the atmosphere you create at your company, is not something you can easily manufacture. There’s no guidebook that says “Chapter 3: How to make your startup cool as shit”. Great startup culture, in my opinion, is fostering an atmosphere of creativity and empowerment. It’s giving your team the ability to think outside of the box, to find creative solutions to problems, and communicating to your team and prospective team that they’re not just another employee or subordinate but rather an integral part of the bigger picture.Tangibly, we create culture at our The takeaway from this is that I don’t think a list of perks make a culture. That the founders, their personalities, what’s important to them is what will ultimately shape the culture more than anything.(p.s. We offer unlimited peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and we’re Read more awesome things on the It’ll be clear to you in about 30 seconds how badly I need an editor

This morning the board of Barclays There seems to have been a rather bad tempered falling out over a lack of both cuts, and profits.The market has reacted well — shares are up 3% at the time of writing — but it might come as a bit of a shock to those of us following along with Jenkins’ battle to ripen the rotten apple that is Barclays’ culture.Shortly after joining, and with a mandate to reform the bank’s image, he sent a memo round to 140,000 staff, stating:Strong stuff, but evidently not enough. Tony Jenkins was the brand consultants hero. The blue-chip boss that proved ‘purpose’ had a place at the top table. But numbers don’t lie. The board wanted costs down and money up, and it would take one hell of a So whilst we’re all occupied by building purpose-led businesses, and fostering cultures that prize autonomy and mastery, let’s not forget that if the numbers aren’t there, then nothing is.A sort of designer / strategist / product guy. Currently 

cPulse is based on the simple premise that culture is people driven and my At Neo, I wanted a way to measure our culture. To get started, I wanted to understand what are the things we actively do that contributes to our culture. As a result, I went on to do an Culture is an ongoing conversation because it’s at play every single day, every hour, every second. Why not tap the brilliant minds of the people who are passionate about the company’s culture to measure it — in real time. I call these individuals These are also the individuals who are in it every single day and so they too are affected by the culture. In many ways, they are constantly collecting data points (aka feelings) on culture that influences the company. Culture observers represent different facet of the company — for instance, engineering, design, leadership, support, etc. It’s a healthy diversity of all these including discipline, skills, values and perspectives that makes up culture.A large assumption being made is that companies can find the individuals who champion their culture, believes in the company, cares about its future and proactively work at making its culture better. These are the people who should make up culture observers.Based on this idea, cPulse taps these individuals to document their feelings towards culture in the short term using a ridiculously simple way to capture this — spreadsheets. Throughout the course of a week, the culture observers are asked to enter how they feel towards defined metrics — engagement culture, dimensions of culture and team values.At Neo, we have ‘programs or activities’ that adds to culture. And so do you at your organization. I call them Engagement with any of these activities is a signal towards the health of the culture and its direction. cPulse simply asks observers to enter 1 or 0 to state whether the week was good or bad for that particular engagement. It doesn’t have to be done at the end of the week, it can be done anytime an observer deem necessary. Why 1 or 0? The idea isn’t for observers to think about it but rather document how they feel towards it. It intentionally takes feelings and make it binary.The nature of cPulse is to be unique to any organization. The activities, rituals or programs you engage in make up your culture. It comes down to the things you do based on what you value as a company and cPulse allows for it. Easily.Culture is much more than cool activities. It’s about some of the things I talk about in Similarly to how we capture data for engagement culture, the same applies for dimensions of culture. It however requires observers to have a solid understanding on what the dimensions of culture are and how to recognize it at work.And finally, there’s values because at the core, culture is about people. Inspired by Netflix’s concept of “stunning colleagues”, Neo did a dump-and-soft of the attributes that we collectively felt described “stunning Neons” — the kind of Neons that we would all value working with; that we aspire to become ourselves ; and that we hope to recruit someday. For background see Stunning Neons:Once all the information is entered, the cPulse runs some basic calculations that comes down to three important numbers:Now, you might be thinking that none of this seems like an accurate measure. Maybe. But it doesn’t matter. The point is to talk about culture in an objective way. When we meet at SF Weekly, an observer can talk to the reasons his/her numbers are low if it is. This is the moment when we dig into the details. In doing so, as leaders we can make meaningful changes towards the results we want based on contextual conversations.cPulse prompts and frames a proactive conversation around culture. It keeps the conversation almost real-time, you know, like your business, product or design meetings that happens every day.To recap, here’s how to get started:Artist creating culture and experiences Exploring how culture can be designed

The conversation about free is a set of nesting dolls. The big embracing Papa Doll is “The Culture of Free,” and inside this glossy shell live the little replicas, each of diminishing size and value, of the millions of people in the digital culture economy attempting to make a living.The culture economy runs on an ideology of altruism and narcissism, the belief that if you just believe in yourself enough, trust the intrinsic marvelousness of your creations, and share them freely with all that this will come back to you as both goodwill and currency. It is not always clarified whether the currency is “followers,” that all important metric of value in the marketplace, or if this is also money you can spend on a house (or if not a house a cup of coffee and a day-old scone.)Giving something for free has been a proven sales tactic since the first Cro-Magnon put woolly mammoth jerky on a stick. I go into the delicatessen and the shopkeeper offers me crostini and a taste of olive oil. We share a moment, we bond, I bask in the generosity and attention of the man telling me the provenance of each oil. I walk away with a bottle of Giveaways and tastes are wonderful sales tools. The Culture of Free does not appreciate the difference between using the tool and being used. And we are all being used. Web 2.0 cannot run without the 24-hour contributions of millions of unpaid content creators. The exhortations to contribute content are endless and often backed by aspirational quotes and unsubstantiated “facts.” Those people on Rapture were “never going to buy your book in the first place?” Who knows? How does Matt Mullenwig know who would have paid money if they hadn’t been given the book for free? Why should I believe this — can I have stats please? Many of these quotes are taken out of context and give a distorted impression of the author’s principles. Chase Jarvis does in fact believe in payment for his work: this is the man who spent 6 years The psychology behind the “giveaway” as a “taste” is that the consumer has to be convinced that what you have to offer is worth money, and a free taste is how you do it. This is marketing savvy, and it often works. The problem is that the tactic has mushroomed into an economy, an economy where culture specifically is decoupled from payment. We don’t expect a car mechanic to repair one car for free before we bring in another. We don’t expect the electrician to wire the house for free because she loves her work. But artists, photographers, writers, musicians, are all expected to produce an endless stream of work for free on the web as the minimum cost of entry. We are to believe that eventually, if we give enough, and if our work is good enough, we will be rewarded for our virtue and savvy with dollars. Because the bar to entry on most sharing platforms is zero, the content is infinite. And it is hard to beat the first rule of the market: What is scarce is expensive, what is plentiful is cheap.What we end up with is more and more unemployed former professionals, and millions of amateurs hoping their next Instagram post will get chosen and make them one of the stars. This is not a sustainable economy. It is a world in which no one ever graduates from the unpaid internship, even if they have 30 years of experience and two degrees. We all get to live in somebody’s basement and keep that day job . . . . forever.We don’t need more exhortations to give our work away for free, we need more thoughtful discussions about how we can bring actual value back to the creative marketplace. We need to think about the cost of “free” and look for ways to contribute actual dollars so the creative worker can survive. The next time you start to build a website with a free template and free photos and free fonts and music, think about it. Who made that image? How long did it take? Why am I paying nothing? If your first answer to these questions is “Because I can’t afford to pay” think about what that means. Can you “not afford” it because you have bought into the idea that creativity should be free justIn a set of Russian nesting dolls the big doll plays benevolent protector of the beautiful little dolls inside. All the dolls interconnect and each has a role protecting and nesting the next. They depend on each other to create a system of beauty. What matters is not whether an individual can carve a little step up by giving their work away, it’s what does it do to the whole? Can a creative class survive and thrive? In our Culture of Free the little dolls cannot breathe, and the profit, what there is of it, accrues at the top. We need to collectively rethink this, and start asking different questions to create an economy that works._______________________________________________________________I work as a professional artist and designer. I write, I Instagram, I Facebook, and I capitulate to those nouns becoming verbs. You will find a © symbol on my work. I ask that people ask me before re-posting my work, and I do not give permission to use my work for free except in rare circumstances. As an artist and designer I have been asked to donate to auctions and to do pro bono work my entire career. I am here to testify that giving my work away for free has resulted in more requests to give my work for free. If you would like to read my writing on contemplative art, culture and politics please visit me at I am a designer, artist and writer. I blog about art, culture and social media at 

Have you played a game? A game with little red hearts on the top right corner or one where hearts follow the player around?The hearts which ensure that once you make a mistake and your character dies, you respawn.This is probably the most important difference between a game and real life. In a game, you have multiple chances — to respawn and play all over again if you make a mistake.But in real life, there is no respawning. There are no second chances, to rectify mistakes and live all over again.Life is like a game hard coded to the most difficult “god mode” imaginable — one where you have one and only one chance. Walk into one wrong path and you are doomed to continue irrespective of what you encounter.There is NO turning back.Imagine you playing such a game, where the stakes are really high and second chances non-existent, and then your noisy troublemaking roommate snatches that controller and pushes the button leading you into a direction you dreaded going to in the first place. How would you feel?If you are living or have lived in India, there are a lot of people, eager on pressing that button for you, trying to make you lead your life according to the norms and laws they seem fit, according to the laws penned down by generations of patriarchs and power hungry legislators and greedy “religious” imposters who wanted to keep the general populace in line.These “curators of culture”, they made things pretty simple really. According to these “gatekeepers”, according to the “culture” that we inherit, our lives are to be defined by 3 deciding factors. Yes, everything in a person’s life — career, love, partner, status, measure of success — everything, is but decided by 3 factors:Surprised? There are many people who would disagree with me at this point. Many would probably say this picture is a hundred years old. Some would say that this probably happens only in the “remote” villages of India.Truth is there is nothing far from the truth.These evils, gender roles, caste system, dependence on stars and “pundits” is so widespread, and ingrained in our DNA, that we don’t even notice when we are blindly following it.We don’t want to believe it.I belong to a section you can term as the crème of Indian youth. Yes, I am an IITian. In Indian society, that loosely translates into, I am one of the best educated early 20 somethings you will find in the country. And I am not boasting. The point I am trying to make is, I am part of the “educated circles”. I have friends who belong to the same world — engineers, doctors, smart educated youngsters graduated from the so-called premier institutes of the nation.If the gatekeepers can reach me, if they can reach my friends, who can stay immune?Let me explain more on how these laws are instrumental in shaping our lives, with our consent or without.Are you being serious? I will decide what career she will pursue? An erstwhile stranger will suddenly become her husband and the curator of her destiny, and will decide what she will or will not do?This is not a one-off case. This is what happens to almost every girl who had the misfortune of being born in a “cultured Indian family”. First parents, and then husband and in-laws decide the fate of a girl — her career, her aspirations, her future, her life. Her talents, intelligence, qualities, interests — nothing really matters in the grand scheme of things.Because at the end of the day, she was born with one goal in life — get married and manage a household.Sounds too hard to believe? If you happen to be in India reading this article sitting in your office, look around you. Look at the group of 30+ professionals sitting at their desks working on their projects. What percentage of those folks are women? If that percentage is over 40, you are extremely lucky. Ok, maybe guys are physically stronger, and I would understand if the proportion is skewed in jobs like army or physical labor, where physical strength is required, but in jobs like IT? Banks? Desk jobs? Where do all the women disappear?And it’s not because women are not that smart, not that savvy. When I passed out of school, the school topper was a girl. So was the topper the year before. So was the topper the year after. And I don’t want to comment on the education system or on the validity of exams as a measure of ability or intelligence. No. My point is, if God made girls with similar intelligence and similar skillset as boys, who are we as humans to impose gender rules and define what a girl should or should not do. Why is it that only guys can build careers out of their free will, but a girl has to rely on open minded parents or supportive husband to do what she wants to do? Why is it that girls need to know how to cook and manage household and rear kids, while a guy has absolutely no flaw as long as he can write off cheques?What kind of society is this?Oh this one is really hilarious.For those who don’t know, “caste” is an implement in the Indian society, originally devised thousands of years ago to organize the population into groups based on the work people did, eventually used as a “mark” to divide the population and decide fate of people.And no, caste does NOT change depending on the work you do. It depends on what your forefather — hundreds of generations ago — did.You are born with a “caste” and it is a mark you need to carry your entire life. And it decides what social status you will have, which people you will eat and mingle with, what opportunities you will get in career, and even more importantly, who will be your “soulmate” or the partner who will live with you the better part of your life.Yes. What your forefather who came 101 generations before you did in his life will decide who you marry in this life.Yes, her mother was unhappy because of her eating with someone not from her caste.This is not a story of two friends from a remote village in India. This is the story of 2 well paid educated software professionals in one of the metros.Caste is like the omnipresent superpower in this country — no one wants to acknowledge it, but it decides the fate of millions of lives every year. Here marriages are done not on basis of love, but on the basis of chance factors — what your forefathers did thousands of years ago and how the stars aligned when you were born. Yes, if you are not among the few open-minded families, you are not allowed to even consider someone outside your caste for marriage. Even if I love someone and that girl loves me back, I cannot marry her if thousands of years ago, someone from my ancestral history made sweets and someone from my girlfriend’s sold clothes.Isn’t it just hilarious?If you found what caste does hilarious, wait till you understand the effect of ““Yes, if you fall in love and are fortunate enough to cross all gatekeepers — religion, caste, age, family, the final thing you absolutely have to cross, is Otherwise, all the mishaps which happen in your life after marriage will be attributed to one thing — “- If the boy starts failing in business after marriage, culprit — - If the boy gets into an accident — - If the family gets poor — - If God forsake, something happens to the boy or couple — bam, Yes, Make no mistake, I love my country, and I love my culture — the traditions, the values — traditions that respect human life and relationships, values that give significance to human emotions, values that prioritize human bonds over materialistic gains. But these inhumane traditions, which have been twisted and molded into the present day rigid forms by generations after generations of power-hungry individuals — I refuse to term these traditions as “culture”. “Culture” is, by definition, a way of “life”, and these “laws” are the antithesis of life. These are mediums of manipulating and controlling life. A life based on unreasonable laws, a life without love, a life without meaning — I refuse to live a life like that.And for my friends who are born in the so called age of reason, and still believe in these delimiting ideals, I have one message for you. There is one and only one shot you would ever have at life. There will be no rebirths, no second chances, no heaven or hell or paradise or vallahala waiting for you on the other side. The years you have here, it will pass in a blip, and you will disappear from existence. The little time you have here, how do you want to spend it? Following the paradigms laid down by unknown people for unexplainable, irrational reasons? Or in the search of love and meaning in your blip on this world?Make your “blip” worth it.Defeat the bosses of caste, stars and gender roles, and play this beautiful, exciting game on your own terms.lover of books, poetry and the written word.

Luxembourg, 1998. On a whim and with zero preparation, I’d decided to spend a weekend there, only to face crappy weather and a lack of available nearby hostels. After much schlepping, I wearily ended up in They ate dinner at their reserved table, and I ate — alone and lonely — in the opposite corner. We largely ignored each other, but they’d occasionally glance over as if to ask:Restless, I wandered the cobblestone streets to find something to do or see. Before long, Almost as if in a cartoon, the young’uns instantly piped down when I peered back at them. Imagine my surprise then, when one of the girls broke from her group and shyly approached me.Still shocked, I blurted out an un-matching American “Hi there.”She smiled broadly, and told me she was from Germany, which I’d already guessed, but then…“Are you… by yourself?” she asked? I nodded, even more unsure about where this was headed.Ah! Such sweetness and innocence and courage! I could have hugged that kid right there.The friends of this girl, Christina, immediately sensed that I A few of the initial questions were admittedly ignorant but nonetheless amusing in their simplicity:It was quickly clear that most of what these kids knew of America they had gleaned from imported American entertainment. D’oh! Baywatch was Before long, the kids got braver with their English and started addressing me directly. I figured this was a good time to shift gears a bit.“They responded eagerly: “Creative!” “FAT!” “Sportive!” “Lazy!” “Funny!” and “Friendly!” But then, one of the boys had a different take.I should have been prepared for this. I’d been living in Germany for a bit and the issue of the Holocaust often came up. People — especially college kids — often wanted to know… What did Americans think of Germany? Of Germans? Of the War? And why? Was it fair to perpetuate the Guilt? Those that brought up this subject with me often did so almost randomly, over beers and fries, with intensity but respect.This same curiosity, combined with innocence, was so clearly present in these young kids. On one hand, they saw America as everything “cool”… but still so distant geographically and emotionally. There was a marked admiration for, yet confusion about and partially even disdain for Americans, perhaps no different than that reflected by our own general ignorance of other cultures.But here there was such a heartwarming yearning from them to connect to me, to connect with the America I was an impromptu representative for. They continued asking me questions for nearly an hour, and drew closer to me all the while.“You are nice!” gushed one of the girls out of the blue, prompting some bantering in German that I understood more than they realized. Not long after this, Christina — by now pretty emboldened and unshy — asked, “Can I have your address?”“Sure,” I replied, amused and flattered, though I couldn’t help but ask, “Why?”“Because Julia likes you!” Christina replied with a huge grin, followed by a horrified look on a quickly clued-in Julia, “And she won’t ask you!”Silly kids. Playful, wondering, movie-watching, tall, short, blonde, brunette, crush-having, sneaker-wearing kids.I had been tired and lonely and frustrated before I met these kids. And of course I’ve had quite a few rough days since then. But when life accentuates separation and distance, I look back on my encounter in Luxembourg and similar experiences and am reassured that friendship and understanding are still inherently valued. And though I never did hear from Julia, thinking of her and her friends still makes me smile.I travel, dance, play piano, work for Google and more.

Every time I listen to or read about company culture it seems that it’s a hugely abstract concept and that it has nothing to do with the small things we do every day. And that bothers me a lot, it bothers me because they in fact are very connected. What we do every single day is what shapes our culture. So I’m here to share with you how we can understand and bring this concept to reality and shape your company culture.Having everyone in sync with the company’s culture is what makes everything run smoothly. A great culture helps in the decision-making processes, it contributes to educating clients and potential customers and help with recruiting and building a great team.This is a very sensitive topic to me because, at Startaê, this has been a big deal since its foundation. We’re more than just a business; we are a group of At Startaê, we believe great ideas can improve lives and make our world more human, simpler and happier. We want to help entrepreneurs and companies to make the difference.We’ve been carefully defining our core values by observing our habits and how things work here, what are the principles, beliefs and values. So far, we managed to sum up our culture in six core values — they are: Simplicity, Human, Transparency, Flexibility, Healtholic, Kaizen.We have to understand culture from a different perspective. As a designer, I knew we had to understand people. I get the feeling that sometimes when we are talking about human centered design we focus a lot of our efforts on understanding our customers and forget about understanding the ones inside, the members of the team that are making that incredible product or experience happen.With this new perspective in mind, I could understand culture as nothing more than the operating system behind a group of people. It is “The way things are done here”. Or better yet, culture is the set of collective habits of a group of people within the organization.To understand habits, I resourced to Another important notion that I took out of this is that habits are almost like a brain programming. It is programmed in there that when Of course that in understanding how habits work we can use them in our favor. As our brains are programmable, they are also reprogrammable. In the book and the video, Charles explores how to create new habits or adapt existing ones. The easiest way to do that is to clearly define a trigger and a reward for the routine that you want to establish. And when I say clearly I mean to be able to write each one down in a tweet clearly.But programming your brain is far different from programming a computer. Our brain cannot be reprogrammed overnight, it is a little more difficult to program because you have to repeat something several times until it identifies it as important and turn into an automatic habit.As we realize that culture is a set of collective habits we begin to understand why we do what we do. What are the triggers? Routines? And what are the individual rewards with that? It also helps us to identify our bad habits and create new routines to shape each one of them.Here are some habits we’ve been creating at Startaê:In sum, now we have a way to integrate our culture into our daily life and actively make it better. With that, we expect to keep Startaê as a place people look forward to coming to work every day. Cheesy, maybe, but when I truly feel that I can’t think of explaining it in any other way.And by sharing this, I hope could have raised your awareness about your habits and how they can shape the company culture. So what are your habits? How can you shape them?Candy affectionate and maker at StartaêA collection of our team’s best thoughts, stories and experiences.

So you’ve had a great idea for a new tech startup. It’s gonna have more users than Facebook, more reach than Google and make more money than Apple. Well done! Now what? Do you find a technical co-founder? Do you go raise money? Do you call up your cousin who makes web pages? No. Below are some insights I’ve learned as an entrepreneur and coach that will help establish a successful foundation for your startup.Gather a group of friends or coworkers, get a few random people from the community, but make sure to run your explorations with other people so that they can ask questions, argue assumptions and help you gain a better perspective.You’ll find that this process never ends, and as you evolve from a startup into a company you will need people around you that can challenge you. These people will have complimentary skills, opposing points of view and the willingness to share.Establishing a culture begins with the first person in the company, not the 10th or the 100th. It grows and changes, but the pursuit of culture in an organisation works as an active process. You cannot sit back and hope a culture emerges, you have to create it and guide it with intent.The types of people you bring on will dictate how your culture grows. Recently, I talked to one of the early employees of Mindbody, which recently IPO’d, and he described being hired as an intern when the company had only a dozen employees. He met with five people, including multiple managers, toured the place and met the CEO…for an intern position! After they hired him he noticed that this practice continued as the company grew. Don’t think of it as a belabored HR process, but rather how the company ensures that every person coming on board will buy into and contribute to the open, collaborative culture that Mindbody wants to maintain.Whatever kind of organisation or company you want to build, make sure you know what culture you want and gather people that will feed that vision. Consider the vision of your company as important as the vision for your product. In doing so, you’ll develop the structural tools to creating a space that is passionate, collaborative and open to challenging each other. The culture that emerges from these ideas will forge a strong foundation and could inevitably save your startup.Author: Cauri Jayerhubarb is a venture studio + community of creative collaborators. rhubarb provides resources to take your startup from conception to exit.

Work can be a drag if you find yourself in a den of assholes. Unfortunately, this is becoming more and more common in our narcissist-generating society. I’d like to start a conversation about how we might tackle this problem. Here’s an outline of how we might begin to approach the problem: it starts with Robert Sutton’s There are a lot of assholes out there. I’ve run into a few more than my fair share — it seems to be par for the course when you’re a contract programmer (I gave up that gig a few years ago but I still have the war stories). Assholes make people feel oppressed, humiliated, de-energised and belittled. In short, they destroy rather than create. The targets of their behaviour tend to be those less powerful — so assholes in management have a larger area of destruction.These assholes can poison your whole organisation, leading to a culture of fear, lower productivity, high staff turnover, general unhappiness and gnashing of teeth.The assholes tend to think that their behaviour is justified because it helps to “get the job done”. However, Sutton points out this is a kind of confirmation bias and usually “stuff gets done” despite the behaviour of the asshole — not The best method of dealing with assholes is avoidance. Don’t take on a job, contract or customer if you’re going to have to live with assholes. If you find yourself in a den of assholes besides your best efforts then leave as soon as you can manage it. Sutton recommends Don’t confuse the I don’t believe that assholes are virtuous despite Sutton’s reluctant chapter on it. One thing that makes sense is that being an asshole may be a short-cut to power and status — that is if the weaklings around them let them get away with it ☺. Who doesn’t know one or two loud mouth, arrogant, self-professed experts that go on a power-grab and succeed because few resisted? Don’t let it happen in your organisation — unless you’re leaving to join or Remember: A partial remedy to this situation is to adopt what I like to call a If you don’t know Simon, he can be described as a scholar and a gent. While being someone who is very bright, accomplished and energetic; Simon doesn’t feel entitled to indulge in behaviour that could be perceived as arrogant, haughty, overbearing, dictatorial etc. Simon also accepts that there are other intelligent folks who might have views that run somewhat counter to his own. In this situation, he is not only tolerant but patiently teaches if those folks are open to it. He also listens carefully to work out where he may be off-track himself (if not completely wrong). As lead of GHC, Simon encourages participation and rarely feels the need to choose an option (from say a bunch of competing but equally decent candidates), instead allowing the community to reach a consensus where possible but breaking deadlocks where necessary. He shys away from the title Don’t be a hater. If you have to hate anyone, hate the haters :P. You know… don’t even hate the haters:Loves programming languages

Having a culture at the office is important. It sets the tone of each day and reminds each team member that being at work isn’t all about just the work. It’s an energy field driven by a strong set of values that gives purpose to what you do and creates an environment that makes you want to do what you do. This is what did Peter Drucker meant when he said that “culture eats strategy for breakfast” — culture rules how you act with others and how you treat your work.At Every Friday we have something called “NuTalks”, and we made damn sure that this happened every Friday. No excuses. I was the MC of these talks and would usually give out awards at the end. Awards ranged from “certificates of excellence” found at Dollarama, to hairspray, to mickeys of tequila. We’d get a member from the team — part-time, full-time, half-time, hammer-time — to conduct an informative one-hour session on whatever topic they felt was necessary and relevant to what we do at Nuscreen, because we An agency that learns together, becomes stronger together.We’re growing — there’s no doubt about that — but the beauty of working with a small team is that everyone has the opportunity to speak up about, well, anything.However, nobody said that keeping our culture every day was easy. Og Mandino said something along the lines of: If tomorrow, Nuscreen was bought out by a huge corporate company that stuck us in cubicles, I would personally feel much less driven. That’s why I left my old job — I felt as though there was little point in the work I was creating, and that the only values exhibited in its culture were to get the work done and then go home (unfortunately, there are so many corporate jobs out there like that). I don’t want my only motivation to be a paycheque or the weekend — I want my motivation to be rooted in the values carried out by everyone in the office, every day.No matter where you work, each employee is responsible for spreading their workplace’s culture — and if you’re at a growing company, you’re shaping that company into what it’s going to be later on. So speak up and collaborate. Here at Nuscreen, going forward we will strive to create an environment with people that motivate each other and allow each other to succeed — a place you’ll Some people call me the space cowboy but I dont get it. Front-end showstopper Whats NU inside Nuscreen

At The main thing that struck me was how just interested he was in culture, which he suggested came from the fact he wasn’t the typical Stanford Computer Science major, of course went to Stanford, but instead of Computer Science, he majored in There are a couple of dimensions to his cultural interest; the first being the world of visual culture and art, that he clearly has a keen involvement with and the second being the culture(s) of Instagram users.For the former, he talked passionately about artists and photographers who use the platform and described a fun experiment he recently participated in, The second element to Krieger’s interest in culture referred to the culture of Instagram users.Looking after and cultivating the community is important to the company, one of its first hires was a When Krieger worked at Meebo he was responsible for user-testing, so he got to see first hand the benefits of learning directly from this process. He clearly understands the importance of this and highlighted how company employees aren’t always a good representation of what’s happening with the product. He still gets involved with user-testing at Instagram and mentioned some recent user groups they ran with teenagers.The company is trying very hard to understand how people are using Instagram and translating that insight into new product development, such as the recent The sheer magnitude of the task has to be daunting- a company of 90 people trying to understand the community of 300 million and its 70 million daily photos, with such an incredible subject range from images of the recent earthquake in and through to painted fingernails.Constantly keeping up with cultural trends via Instagram is important to Kreiger; he mentioned the emergence of #dogmom, this Mother’s Day, as an example of something he hadn’t seen before.Kreiger also talked about the company’s connection to Facebook- how they work closely together on things like technical infrastructure, but Facebook stays away from the product.As they move forward, the company’s biggest challenge is being able to innovate at speed, without the company getting in the way. Krieger wants to maintain the culture that allows people to build and innovate on their own, which is how Hyperlapse came into being.Finally, back to the user, says Kreiger told the audience how he feels like a “custodian” for the product and wants to make sure the user experience is kept familiar and simple. As an example, Krieger again called out Hyperlapse, which just picked up for a As Instagram evolves it has tremendous potential to become much more of a visual window into the world, rather than just the worlds of its users and it’s clearly on a mission to help people discover and uncover new cultures and in the process deepen their relationship with the brand.Director of Strategy and Innovation at BSSP- curious about all things relating to brands, marketing and culture

Different cultures, on average, have an approach and mentality that is unique to them, when it comes to work.Not everybody is on the same page when it comes to matters of work-life balance or what it means to be productive. According to a recent study by the Journal Of Happiness Studies, Adam Okulicz-Kozaryn, an assistant professor at the University of Texas at Dallas, ran the study and says:A study conducted by the human resources consulting firm Mercer reveals that the Governments of places like Finland, Brazil and France require employers to give at least six weeks of paid vacation to workers.In contrast, at the core of the American culture is the idea of the American dream. It is the belief that anybody can make it if they work hard enough. Even the little man can make it from a nobody to a somebody, with the right work ethic.Perhaps, some Americans feel like there is a lack of commitment when they take more breaks and holidays. Research from Ipsos, tells us that A popular study by Gallup says that almost 70% of Professionals in America are not engaged in their work.The American Dream can be summed up by the words of the, Canadian rapper, Drake when he says ‘we started from the bottom now we’re here.’As a result of this mentality, there might just be more work-a-holics than in many European countries. In fact, there are many studies that show the significance of rest in helping productivity. We need time for renewal, and often professionals, business people and entrepreneurs ignore this principle.It is just like working out our muscles, if you burn a muscle without resting you end up damaging it.You weaken the muscle instead of strengthen it. Our minds work in the same way, we cannot perform at our best when it is worked beyond its capacity.We may feel like we are being more productive by working all the time, but we are really burning the candle at both ends.Studies by Canadian researchers Joudrey and Wallace, after studying a group of 900 lawyers, reveals that those that are “active” in extra-curricular and leisure endeavours, or take vacations, have less job related stress.Vacations or having breaks and a balanced lifestyle is essential for our wellbeing and greater performance results.Francine Lederer, a clinical psychologist specializing in stress and relationship management says:There is a lot that we can learn from these findings about working smarter and not just harder, in order to achieve the results that we want.One thing is true, being busy does not mean you are being productive.I help people get noticed for their work. Prolific writer. Entrepreneur. Strategist. People person. Sow with tears, reap with joy.

The culture of an organization defines its success a lot more than the teams, products, skills that exist within it or the strategy that defines its vision. As the famous quote, attributed to Peter Drucker, goes — ‘Culture eats strategy for breakfast.’ In that sense, the watershed that splits good companies from great ones will be the culture and the leadership behaviors that shape it.Let me be honest here — I believe culture is the set of behaviors that the employees show on daily basis, rather than the cultural artifacts (The baseline of the culture and environment could not be better captured than the quote by Gruenter and Whitaker —To build on it, however, we need to take a look at some of the behaviors that can bring a culture that sets the environment of mutual respect among teams and team members. Once this is in place, all else will follow. In essence, if you take care of that, To avoid making this short piece too long to read, here they are, seen through the eyes of my (still) young age and (in)experience.Expressing gratitude is a gift that we struggle to master despite the fact that it takes just a few seconds to acknowledge your thankfulness to a co-worker, team member or business partner. We are unfortunately too used to the assumption that people Yet, it always helps to drop a line and simply thank somebody for the work they have done — that’s recognition to enforce the fact that the work done is Asking someone nicely is not a matter of formality and good manners — it changes the relationship from a pure We often talk about empowerment and how great leadership is defined by this behavior. However, all too often we equate empowerment with delegation or off-loading more work onto others. In essence, if I give more and more serious work to a team member, I am empowering them. That’s wrong.Giving credit is one of the most rewarding exercises in a professional setting. In today’s competitive world, we all tend to forget this part and sometimes take a bit more credit than deserved, somehow omitting the contribution of team members that burnt the midnight oil to push the project over the line.Giving credit, even sometimes a bit more than necessarily deserved, is a great exercise of recognizing the contribution of a team member in front of others. It is also a great sign of leadership — the moment you start giving credit instead of taking it, you are mature enough to lead a team, as what becomes important is the culture and then results, rather than who did what.Mistakes happen. According to recent studies, a manager with four direct reports juggles 600 decisions a day (some minor, I know — such as whether your drink should be a Venti or a Grande). Just from experience, even with the best analysis and thought processes, at least 5% of our decisions are not optimal or simply wrong. That means that 30 times a day, we make the wrong call. And that is entirely ok — we should own the failures as well as the successes and it is always better to admit a mistake, take the ownership, and apologize than to try to figure out 1,000 ways how to cover it in the hope it will not give out a sign that a decision was wrong. Or disregard the ownership of that decision.‘I am sorry’ makes you human and makes you trustworthy. ‘I am sorry’ also recognizes that what was true or valid when you made the decision is not so anymore and you are willing to embrace it, admit it, and move on, rather than try to prove that you are right all the time. As my experience and history suggests, nobody is right all the time. So, when you are not, just call it out.Clearly, the literature that covers how to build a great culture is endless and evolves all the time. In my mind, however, there is always a start and having this behaviors engrained in the team or the company is a critical start of something great. That’s beyond product, skills, or separate teams within an organization. Or the strategy that defines its vision. After all, ‘Culture eats strategy for breakfast.’Thanks for reading. ;)Director, B2B Thoughts, opinions and insights from the Skyscanner team across Medium

Every day, one thing I keep thinking about, is to push the boundaries of building the best company culture on the planet. To me, it doesn’t matter if we fail so bad today, the legacy that my company will leave behind, matters.To create such a legacy, we have to build This required us to work extensively on creating a company culture that will stand the sands of time. But, for most part, I misunderstood the culture of the company in a lot of ways. I then realized that its more than what it meets the eye. Here are some points that will help you understand, what is NOT company culture.Here is what I think company culture IS:Co-founder of Technology / Humanity / Liberal Arts

A successful CEO said this to me at the end of one of our first meetings.I get where he was coming from. Many business owners are skeptical about the role of culture in their day-to-day priorities. To many, it’s just another soft, squishy concept that doesn’t translate easily to dollars and cents.Graciously, he didn’t show me out, and eventually we did get around to the topic. When we did, it opened up a new way for us to discuss what was important to him when it came to his business — the challenges he was facing, the ambitions that he held.It comes down to this: Anthropology is the scientific study of humans. People are an important part of doing business.Definitions of culture are varied and contested.Many of us are familiar with the notion of “high” culture, and you’ll find a reference to art “and other manifestations of human intellectual achievement” in the OED’s primary definition.That’s certainly a part of culture, but the common conception, as we’re talking about it here, has expanded beyond the confines of the gallery, the concert hall, and the museum. We know that culture is everywhere, even if we can’t yet nail it down.Personally, I gravitate to those definitions that emphasize knowledge and meaning, such as the one put forward by Clifford Geertz. Geertz described culture as a “historically transmitted pattern of meanings embodied in symbols, a system of inherited conceptions expressed in symbolic forms by means of which men communicate, perpetuate, and develop their knowledge about and attitudes toward life” (Geertz 1973: 89).We may not have a clear, shared understanding of the word, but last year, it clocked in as But just because culture is broad and deep doesn’t mean that it’s shapeless. Anthropologists and other social scientists that take a critical study of culture can help us wrangle these hidden currents of meaning, and they’re doing so in businesses every day.So while those symbols Geertz mentioned may be… well… symbolic, our knowledge and attitudes about life are shared and experienced in very real, tangible ways.Remember when we said that people are an important part of doing business? We all know that, as often as we hear the statement “our employees are our most important asset.” But we need to stop and think about what that really means.Similarly, we’ve all become familiar with the term “company culture.” Word on the street is, if you’re not thinking critically about your company culture, no one will want to work for you and you’ll soon find your customers shacking up with your hippest competitor. There may be some truth in that — more on that in a future post.In this post, and the rest of the series, we look externally at the way culture is operating in the wide world, and how it impacts our successes and failures in the realm of business.As the anthropologist and cultural maven Grant McCracken Anthropology can help look at formalized structures, such as management hierarchies and company policy, and also the less formal, unofficial ideas and values that are expressed in things like a company’s language, design, and marketing choices.Do a quick search in Fast Company, Bloomberg Businessweek, or Harvard Business Review, and you’ll find enough articles with “culture” in the title to keep you reading for weeks. But this is a relatively new phenomenon. Though Anthropologists have been studying (and working in) corporations since the dawn of the industrial era, it’s only been in the last couple of decades that their studies have attracted the attention of mainstream business media.One of the most influential business approaches of the past decade has been the “What is Blue Ocean Strategy? According to Kim and Mauborgne,By locating themselves in a new space, free of competition, companies create demand, not fight for it. In setting their own rules for the relationship with customers, companies have the potential for rapid, widespread, profitable growth, according to the authors.Sounds good, right?Kim and Mauborgne cite several examples of companies that have dramatically created their own Blue Oceans, outside the reach of existing competitors. Their list includes Southwest Airlines (low-cost model, innovative pricing and customer service) and Cirque du Soleil (sophisticated circus targeting adults, sans animals and star performers).As you’ll see in both those examples, pursuing a Blue Ocean doesn’t always mean coming up with a completely new industry. In most cases, in fact, Apple’s mp3-market shattering combination of an innovative product/service hybrid (iPod + iTunes) springs to mind, as does Warby Parker with their low-cost high-value conveniently-on-your-own-time-and-turf approach to eyeglass sales.Though passionately received and widely lauded, one persistent criticism of Blue Ocean strategy is that it’s actually pretty tough to apply in advance. Fair enough. If it were easy, if we all knew how to tweak a product or service to cause new, dedicated customers to come running, we’d do it. But it is difficult to identify, and identify with, previously untapped markets. (Especially when we call them markets rather than consider the individuals and groups they’re comprised of.) So how do the Warby Parkers of the world do it?Here’s where culture comes in. Having an operating knowledge of people allows us to challenge many basic assumptions that influence the marketplace. Over the past decades, much has been said and researched regarding The fields of Psychology, Sociology, and Anthropology can provide the answers. These people-focused sciences can help.Remember that scene in the first Mad Men when Don dismissively tosses Dr. Greta Guttman’s detailed report on the psychology of smoking? (Spoiler alert: Don is hit with a brilliant insight just in the nick of time to nail the pitch.) Or think of his touching intro to the Kodak Carousel slide projector. In both cases, it wasn’t simply a gut-reaction flash of clarity. Whether he realized it or not, Don was tapped into some deep, powerful cultural currents.We succeed only we understand our customers, what they value, how they think and feel, how they talk about it, and what it means to them. We can get to that special place faster — and with less heartache — if we pay attention to the undercurrent of culture, in all it’s complexity.This is the first post in the series The world is changing — historic societal shifts have brought us all to a new vantage point. Ahead lies a vista of wide-open possibility that will continue to transform every part of our lives.

At Viget, we do a few things intentionally, but pretty organically, to document our company culture. They don’t add a lot of overhead to our operation and they strengthen our ability to attract and retain the best clients and talent in the world. But, mostly, we do it for another reason altogether … keep reading to find out!From quarterly company-wide events, ongoing Meetups, community service days, and after-work get togethers, we have a lot of events going on. We take photos at every event and post them on Video is an effective way to capture the mood and, in the last couple of years, we’ve started making The We’ve found an enormous value in documenting culture. It is a great mechanism for sharing our vibe with the outside world and for getting to know each other better so we have a stronger bond.When I was evaluating Viget before getting hired, I loved the opportunity to “get to know everyone” from the massive library on Flickr.For prospective clients, having hundreds of photo albums gives them an easy way to see what we’re all about and remotely “meet” our team and company. We frequently include these kinds of images in our pitches and presentations and, even if we’ve met in person, we hope clients visit Flickr.Perhaps most importantly, we need assets for future toasts/roasts when we each celebrate 5 years at Viget, promotions, or other milestones. ☺Mostly, we document our culture because it’s fun. It’s fun to look at photos — especially when they reveal how long we’ve worked together and how many experiences we’ve shared. It’s fun to laugh about the quirky details an old Lab Report has captured. It’s fun to see that the cutting-edge work we were so proud of 3 years ago, highlighted in a reel, is now a part of the new industry norm. Some things in business are the same as in life — we do them because they’re enjoyable.Want to contribute to this culture? Say hello! Recently relocated with family from Los Angeles to hometown Boulder. Huge fan of the outdoors, hatching ambitious ideas, and building web business with Ideas from the people at Viget

A friend recently posted about his staffing challenges.Company culture is what will keep a team together, not a big paycheck or prestigious work. You’d be surprised how little people are willing to get paid when the culture is right. (just saying) Millennials in particular give no fucks about the money if they hate their job. A few questions I’m always asking myself:We will sometimes take full days off to go to the beach, the museum, Science Center, etc. As a business owner, you know exactly how much $ of productive work-time that costs! But alas, this is what keeps people together, and I’d argue, helps them be more productive. We’ve dedicated a full blog on just our Friday activities.We call it: We have parties, go to concerts, make lunch together, play video games, and more. Can people on my team get paid more at larger agencies? Most likely. Will they be happier? I highly doubt it. My team’s happiness is a major priority to me.Everyone on my team writes weekly logs that’s shared with me. I invest a ton of time getting to know them both personally and professionally. What their goals, aspirations, dreams, and desires are. And I’m constantly asking myself, how can I help the people in our family get closer to what they actually want. Which let’s be honest, is not more client work.With regards to hiring, candidates don’t get a phone interview (let alone an in-person interview) until they successfully get through three questionnaires. These questionnaires are pretty intense. We ask all types of questions, some work related, some philosophical. I don’t want to waste my time on a dud, or worse, hire a dud and have my team infected with dudiness virus. That said, I can only evaluate a potential hire based on the merits of our culture. Again, culture is the key here. We have a shit-load of documentation going into the finest detail of who we are as a people, and what we represent. We’re unapologetically raw about this. It freaks people out. Both clients and public. But those who get it, stay for the long haul. Here’s an abbreviated version of what we rep: Beaming in and out of your existence with Cardassian swag and Vulcan logic. Party like a Klingon, know your Ferengi Rules of Acquisition and prosper!

In a lot of companies, people just learn on the job. But Mastey says that “when people try to learn on the job, they really only learn a narrow subset of all the things that they need to about a technology. What that leaves is a big gap in their skills where maybe they know a lot about one particular section of the platform, but then they miss entire other sections. That ends up being a hindrance.” What’s more, people can pick up bad habits and practices from learning this way too. After all, not all of the code in our codebases is good, but people see that code and “pick up these terrible patterns and so they internalize the wrong thing instead of learning the right thing,” says Mastey.The answer to this problem is to establish a learning culture. “The thing that interested me the most was that by creating a culture of learning, we actually increase retention, not only of the younger people but also of the more experienced engineers,” says Mastey. “There’s this thing where when you’re at a technology company for maybe a couple years, right at the beginning you’re learning new things. It’s very exciting, you get a new platform… but, a couple of years in, and you are basically done learning parts of it. You feel like you slow down in that learning. This is the part where a lot of people end up dropping off. By building a culture that continually moves forward and rewards that kind of learning, we can attract really great engineers. And we can also retain really great engineers too.”Another benefit of a learning culture is that “it actually reduces waste,” says Mastey. “One of the things that we’ve seen a lot of is if you aren’t really great with your tools, you’re not leveraging them completely. Because of that, you’re spending more time than you need to. One of the things that’s maybe counter-intuitive is that by spending this extra time, we actually end up saving time in the long run.”And anyone who is interested in establishing a learning program can do so. “I have no teaching background whatsoever,” confesses Mastey, but “one of the things that I always tell people is that when you’re trying to build this part of your culture, you don’t need to have a teaching degree. You don’t need that expertise. Really, if you’re interested, you can figure it out.”So there are three key stages that Mastey outlines to create a learning culture. “The first phase is really building up credibility. In that phase, we are trying to just find these quick wins and things to help people prove to themselves that what we were doing is going to be valuable and going to provide value to the business”.You can progress to the second stage once you’ve built credibility and people are starting to understand the positive value a focus on learning can have. Mastey says that “in the second phase we can start to expand outside of the couple of people and some of those quick wins. We can start to invest time and things that take a little bit longer and now we’re involving entire teams of people. We’re trying to build links between teams. We can actually invest a little bit more money because people have started to understand what we’re going to get back for that money.”Then by the third stage, it’s “essentially making that a permanent part of the culture… you can make it a part of people’s job”. By this stage people “just don’t even remember that it was ever something that they didn’t do. At that part, you have the ability to make really big changes that are incredibly helpful to the company but really need to have everybody on board,” explains Mastey.To get started “you really want to focus opportunistically on places where you can have a lot of impact for only a little bit of effort,” says Mastey. “Don’t try upfront to change the world right out of the gate, because you don’t have enough buy-in for that yet.” You should also bear in mind that it’s an iterative process, cautions Mastey. “A lot of things don’t work. That’s okay. Like that’s part of the process… we don’t know upfront what’s going to work… so try a thousand things and monitor how they’re working, but don’t be afraid to throw them out.”“Some of the really easy stuff” to start with, suggests Mastey, “is have a brown bag lunch. Have a book club. Do code review. Literally, you can have two people on different teams, just have those two people do code review between each other. Already, you’re starting to create the links within the organization that is going to support those changes later on”.Another suggestion is to “post in your company’s chat program that you want to go to a meet-up and see if some other people will come with you,” says Mastey. You want to think of “things where you only need a couple of people to buy-in. It doesn’t really cost you anything, but you can come back and say, ‘Okay. I now know about this new JavaScript framework. I now know about this tweak that I didn’t understand before’”.Then once it’s working, you can think of things that require a little more time investment. “Cross training is one of the big ones that I love,” says Mastey. For example, “your UI people should understand the database. Your database people should understand how testing works” and through cross-training you can encourage this learning and reduce your bus factor.Something that worked well for Mastey were weekly tech talks. “In the first company that I did this at, we had an hour long tech talk program, where it was four slots every single week. Every week, we got four new ideas into the organization”. Of course, “that does take time, and it does take preparation, but when you can start to do that, the effect on the organization is really obvious and it’s really good”.There is a lot that you can read on the subject. Mastey recommends Dave Hoover’s Fog Creek helps the world’s best software developers make better softwareInsights from the world’s best developers about how they build great software

Almost two years in, we couldn’t be prouder of the team we’ve put together. Cliche perhaps, but 100% true: team is everything. It drives the quality of our product, the delight of our customers, our ability to keep hiring top talent, and — most importantly — how rewarding it feels to be in the trenches together day-in day-out.We realized recently that, while our culture drives everything we do, we haven’t documented it anywhere. If someone asked each of us how we’d describe our culture, our descriptions would look something like an atom; distinct perspectives centered around a shared nucleus containing all the real weight.We wanted to bring definition to that nucleus: how do we collectively describe the core of what it means to be on this team?So over lunch one day, we gathered in front of a whiteboard and put our heads together, drawing from All of our teammates were given post-it notes to jot down thoughts in response to four high-level questions:These questions were meant only to spur thoughts. Of course there’s a lot of overlap between those questions, and they are by no means exhaustive.For about 10 minutes we contributed our ideas.It was awesome to see how how much overlap emerged from the team:With so many great contributions on the whiteboard, our next step was to surface the ones that resonated strongest. Each teammate was given five stickers; you could vote on five different post-its (including your own) or put multiple stars on the same post-it.It got a little crowded around the whiteboard, but it’s essential that we all do this at the same time, in order to minimize the effect of previous votes on your voting.It helps to have someone read off all the post-its beforehand, so people have a general sense of what’s up there.At this point, one person needs to drive but it’s still a team effort: consolidate all the starred post-its around common themes. Simply cluster them on the whiteboard. The whole team should help suggest what goes where, and simultaneously suggest the common themes, which can be written above each cluster.We kept it to one word per cluster, but you can use phrases; up to your team!That’s pretty much it. We all took a step back and marveled at the breadth of and overlap in our definitions of what drives us.Here’s what we came to — our definition of the nucleus of DataFox’s culture:We care about This is just a work-in-progress, a first cut. Like everything we do, we expect to come back to this often, to make it better and better and account for things we learn along the way.Still, there’s something exhilarating about getting these values down on “paper,” as it gives shape to sentiments that we feel, working on this team together, but can’t always readily put into words.PS: we’re looking for new teammates to join us. Check out our openings co-founder Structured insights into private companies

Your company culture is as vital as the blood in your body. Just like knowing your blood type in rally racing, knowingThe recipe to win the race of building a great startup seems simple: All you need to do is hire the right people fast enough and then “just execute”. Just hit your targets– But while it is extremely important that all your team members focus on their jobs, on the “the race”, sometimes things go sideways. And it’s then that yourself, knowing your culture, is critical. That’s why any racing car has the blood type of the driver and the co-driver written on it. It can save lives.However, your company’s culture is not only essential when you take a wrong turn. Your culture is the fuel of your success. It’s the liquid that makes every part of your organism move towards the goal, enabling every talent to perform at their best.There is a lot of noise about what culture is and isn’t, what you can and cannot do.An avalanche of gurus has voiced their opinions on this topics over the years. It’s tempting to drop the topic and just focus on “your goals”. Don’t. Understanding your culture can really make a difference.HotelQuickly went from 0 to 75+ team members in 9 offices in less than 2,5 years. That’s a lot of different elements to take into consideration: from the geographical and cultural distances, to alignment of the vision, understanding of the purpose to operational challenges. We have certainly not “figured it out” and we made many, many mistakes as we grew .But in the pursuit of building a great company culture, we found the following exercise very helpful. We did it with everyone involved at our last all-team onsite in November and as a result we were able to clearly articulate our core values that lay the foundation of who we are.We started off with an all-hands meeting, defining what the terms “culture” and “core values” mean to us. Perspective that resonated across the team was that culture is a set of certain behaviors, attitudes and characteristics that are typical and crucial to the team members — individually and as a whole.Instead of then announcing: “Ok guys, these are the 10 core values of HotelQuickly the management came up with”, we continued differently. We gave the team post-its and asked every single teammate to write down the top 10 characteristics and core values we appreciate about our peers. “What makes us great? What do you see us doing every day? What does it take to be part of the HotelQuickly team?” No talk, just thinking on your own.We then split people into teams of 4–6 to review and “rate” what others wrote in silence. Next, the team discussed the individual interpretation of the core values. Each team would then choose the most authentic descriptions of HotelQuickly core values.Thereafter, we would bring all the teams together to present the results of our prioritization session. “What does it take to be a part of the company? What do our hearts beat for?” After all the teams explained the top choices, we then put up all of the suggestions on one whiteboard and finalized the selection. The result of these lively discussions is seven core values. Seven characteristics and attitudes that define who we are. This is what makes HotelQuickly HotelQuickly and what makes us special.Finally, we wanted to check that everybody is really on the same page. Everyone would write what these 7 core values mean to him or her, with good examples when we or other our teammates acted acted in the spirit of these different values. The sessions finished with a very entertaining slideshow with photos and quotes of great moments the team compiled. “What is the blood type of HotelQuickly?” Everybody knew.Understanding of our core values and our culture was the very first step. If you really want to make a difference, you have to pump your heart with that blood — you have to fully embrace your culture. You not only want to lead by example, you have to actively promote  reward behavior that is in line with your core values and actively deal with any attitudes that act against them. Your culture sets you apart and builds the character of your company.The process of building a (startup) company is a race. While winning is key, understanding your “blood type”, your culture helps you along the way — not only when you take a wrong turn. The following steps helped us to discover and embrace our core values and culture:The great thing about all this is that you don’t have to ponder about your culture all the time. But by being aware of it and actively investing in your core values, you will gain momentum. Your culture begin to arise as a strong and positive influence in your business over time; you will be able to hire and develop top talents, innovate and act, all in line. Not only can knowing your culture save youAnd the race is still on… Just go!CEO Co-Founder of HotelQuickly. Entrepreneur passionate about building great teams. Advocate of personal growth and mindful living.

“Culture shock” is a cheesy and relatively un-meaningful term you might remember if you studied abroad in college in the US. From Honestly, I just don’t like this definition. I have never spoken with a single person in my life who feels they experienced “culture shock” like this any sort of meaningful way in the long term. Basically, it is just a way of saying “hey guess what, when you go to a place with a different culture, things are different,” which nobody is actually surprised or “shocked” by. Sure, you probably need to change some things, but we all need to adjust to a wide variety of situations in our lives. I might be in a bubble, but I feel like most people have experienced changes to their lives and lifestyles by the time they are adults. On top of that, I feel like it’s very unlikely that someone would move to another country and honestly expect everything to be exactly the same. “Culture shock” is a great term, but is used for a very shallow definition. Really, it should be called “the process of adapting to a different environment” — the term “culture shock” should be reserved for something, well, more genuinely shocking.I feel like during the I have been writing about my process of examining and redefining these cultural values in I have said that cultural values can be harmful, so let’s dive into a couple examples to back this up. Initially, we’ll discuss a couple extreme ones. Many people think that Let’s look at another more modern and salient example: ISIS, the Islamic State. If you have not seen Phew, those are some intense topics. I told you they would be extreme cases. I certainly do not support the viewpoints of either Hitler or ISIS, and in all likelihood you don’t either. But now let’s get a little more personal and describe a harmful cultural value which is still leading people to do horrible and immoral things even today. One which I am a part and you probably are too: For most of my life, I was only vaguely aware of animal rights. I knew about organizations like PETA, organic foods, and had heard the term “battery cage”, loosely associated it with a bad thing. I love animals, and have worked on more than one farm where I helped to take care of them. I know a number of people that are vegetarians, but none of them ever really talk about it much other than mentioning they are doing so for “moral” or “health” reasons. I had thought briefly about it, but I like eating meat, restaurants serve it, supermarkets sell it, and all my family and friends also eat meat. It’s also a natural part of how the world works — many animals eat other animals, it’s simply the natural flow of evolution. I certainly didn’t feel like that was immoral or wrong in any way.But recently, I did a bit more research on the topic, and discovered quite a lot of things I never had thought about before. For commercial food production, animals are treated like meat factories. Zero consideration is given to their feelings or comfort. Companies are operating for profit, so they will do whatever it takes to cut costs and maximize profit, Think about it this way. Many years ago, the US endorsed slavery. Some people had decided that since some other people had dark skin, they were to be treated like nonhuman business assets — bought, sold, and forced to labor for free, with no consideration given to their feelings or comfort. This is an absurd concept, and today, if anyone is a supporter of slavery, they are shunned by society. Supporting a concept like this is absurd and clearly immoral — it doesn’t matter what color someone’s skin is, what religion they are, etc. People still have feelings and independent lives and oppressing or taking that away from them is just wrong, and is now seen as a crime.So why is it any different for animals? They still have feelings and live independent lives. They can be happy or miserable, feel pleasure and pain. They are fully conscious and intelligent beings. Humans are just running a massive slavery ring where we raise animals, enslave them under miserable conditions for their entire lives, then kill and eat them, for profit. This is called When you realize that part of the culture you have always taken as normal is actually causing pain and suffering in mass, harmful culture becomes less of a far-off and radical concept practiced by the likes of Nazis and ISIS. It hits a little closer to home.Under this lens, what’s “right” and what’s “wrong” become a lot more blurry. You typically believe that what you are doing is right (or else you would not be doing it). But at the same time, so do the people who go around This is one reason why travel provides insight that simply cannot be found anywhere else, and why I have been driven to so much thinking and writing during this trip. In my opinion, this is true definition of culture shock: the realization that most of your values are formed by your culture, and also that many of these values At the same time, it’s quite clear that this type of evaluation is not a simple task. Determining what’s “right” and “wrong” is a very challenging topic, one that we will examine in more depth in a future post. But at very least, I will open up my own thought processes for you to evaluate. In this blog, I’ll detail my own process of And from now on, I will refer to the realization that your own culturally informed values could be harmful as lifelong learnerAdventures in Learning, Life, and Happiness

With I was super excited about the opportunity! Yea, the drive was going to suck, since I live in Raleigh. And yea, giving up my cool office at As much as I could — considering my other commitments — I attended lecture series, sat down one-on-one with gurus and experts brought in to talk to us, and learned as much as I could from John Austin, who runs GW.But after formally exiting the 4-month program, I have mixed feelings about the whole experience, and its something I’d like to discuss, partly to get things off my chest, and also because probably no one discusses this for fear of being alienated from the tech community here in the Triangle.I don’t have any sort of allegiance or need to “fit in”, so I can say whatever is on my mind. Here’s my beef with the Durham tech culture:I never felt as though I fit in. I felt very out of place there, mainly because:The emphasis there is twofold:While this is fine and great, the folks at key positions aren’t really interested in supporting the interests of the entrepreneurs unless those interests align with their investor community’s interests. (You’d be amazed at how much time is spent on how to pitch to investors, what they look for, and so forth). Ironically, these key individuals also earn paychecks just like nearly all other non-entrepreneurs.And even worse, they don’t even bother with other types of entrepreneurs: people like me, with a lot of former experience running profitable businesses, who aren’t necessarily in it to sell it right away. Who might be in it to create a lifestyle business, or a series of small businesses. Or in it to become or to stay independent and not have to answer to anyone other than themselves.So if you are under 30, attempting something of relatively high risk with very small likelihood of success, in a potentially huge market, are more interested in user acquisition growth rates and an exit strategy than any other thing, and are in need for money in a bad way, then yes, it could be a great fit. But for everyone else, it’s just not. And that’s really unfortunate, because there are a lot more people like me than there are of the former. It’s also my opinion that moonshots are few and far between, and — more importantly — the startup scene around here needs all kinds of entrepreneurs, not just the ones that fit into a particular narrow round hole.Founder of Terraine, owner of Adesso database sync platform, apps for env/energy  other industries (EnviroChain, 

If you want to build a remote startup culture that’s strong, alive and happy, the follow these pointers, in order:The key ingredient to culture is the Founder of 

I could feel the culture from a thousand miles away.Freelance Writer / Visual Designer / Quite the Clever Minecraft Miner. Bitcoin tips are appreciated: 

by Jeff A. TaylorLet this be a lesson not to take the simple things in life for granted. Things you thought would always be there for you, but then are snatched away without warning or remorse, leaving life forever changed and diminished. Of course I’m talking about the demise of Texas Pete Chili Sauce for hot dogs and hamburgers.Long recognized by chili dog and — vitally, crucially — chili As bad as that news was, when framed with another Texas Pete development we see that traditional American culture is indeed under siege. For at the same moment that TW Garner kicked its chili sauce supremacy to the curb it was ramping up its entry into a crowded, non-core segment full of posers and get-rich-quick artists. Yes, Texas Pete is making And in what can only be a malicious, intentional twist of the knife, Texas Pete is hyping its upstart sriracha as “the perfect topping for … hot dogs and hamburgers.”No.You had the perfect topping for hot dogs and hamburgers. It was goddamn Texas Pete Chili Sauce.RIP, Pete.Journalist, blogger, libertarian. Fights idiocy. Drinks beer. UNC 87

I always found the subject of culture fascinating, and that is also part of the reason why I wanted to pursue this unpaid internship with Grassroot Soccer. After spending four years in the United States — a foreign, yet still Western and, in many ways, similar culture to Sweden — I wanted to experience being a foreigner again. I simply enjoy the perks and challenges that the foreigner experience entails.When you move to a foreign country you will experience the inevitable culture shock. You have removed yourself from the environment that you are so accustomed to, and you find yourself in a place where suddenly a lot of things do not make much sense anymore.When you spend a lot of time at a new place your attitudes to the new culture will likely follow a widely accepted pattern of four different phases: honeymoon, frustration, adjustment, and mastery/acceptance.I am now starting my tenth week in Lusaka and everything is still very new and exciting. In other words, I am still in the midst of my honeymoon period. I have no doubt that I will enter the frustration phase at some point but for now I’ll just sit back and enjoy the ride.Here is a sample of the many cultural differences that I have noticed thus far:There is so much more stuff to write about but these are some of the basics. All in all, great place. Very peaceful and safe (in African standards). Hopefully I will remain positive when the honeymoon period ends.A Grassroot Soccer volunteer in Lusaka, Zambia

There is a fine line between the promotion and the exploitation of Aboriginal culture. People have been talking and documenting this issue for years and still it seems that Indigenous Culture in Australia is being treated as a commodity by global markets and corporations.The fundamental guidelines to support Indigenous people to produce culturally appropriate content for businesses is not in place and still has much haze around it. Aboriginal people are often not protected by our Industrial unions, agencies and the businesses they work for as these private and government bodies still do not recognize standard best practice procedures for working with Aboriginal People and their culture.Human identities and cultures are fragmented and packaged in the cut-throat world of multinational commodity exchanges, and products now must scream out to consumers in both social and psychological spaces I have personally experienced the western commodification of my own culture and identity. At the time I didn’t even realise it was happening, but once I was mistreated and forced to resign it became very clear that my culture was being bought from me for a few thousand dollars.I was previously employed to design and create cultural content for a multinational company. I loved the work. Completely in my element working with parts of my culture such as dance, art and storytelling. It was the best job I ever had. Until it came to my attention, very abruptly, that the organisation I was working for did not have a support network for their Indigenous staff.I was asked to use cultural and historical information, what the business called “my expertise”, to create this work however even saying it in that context sounds off. I consulted my family, traditional owners and elders to create content that could be taught to children to learn about Aboriginal Culture. I thought I was doing something wonderful. Getting my culture out there so other people from other backgrounds could learn about it right across the country. I saw this as an amazing opportunity.However the organisation did not make their intentions totally transparent from the beginning. Now that’s not to say my contracts weren’t clear. I was able to complete all the work required, although there was an occasion where I should have clicked on immediately that something wasn’t quite right. I was completing what was called ‘contracted’ work for my employer but without a contract. My employer failed to send my contract to me until halfway through the month but still required me to complete the work they were emailing me on deadlines. So my workloads did become somewhat unclear. That was one of the first things I noticed that was not right.After creating all of the content, closing up my tasks and getting prepared for other Indigenous staff members to come on board, I followed up with my employer to ensure the new staff would be trained in a culturally appropriate manner according to my cultural customs since I had created the content.I was told by my employer that they weren’t going to have me train anyone in a culturally appropriate manner and that we would do it their way. When I questioned this I was belittled and told that my cultural customs had been checked against another Aboriginal person’s customs and mine were incorrect.Now had I have known this would happen, I certainly would not have shared my family’s personal and cultural information to be used for this work. I was tricked. Whether they knew they had tricked me or not, they had stolen my culture and put a price tag on it, which was my contracted pay. Then they did not allow me to explain or quality assure the work in a culturally appropriate manner.What my employers really wanted was to commodify my culture. They wanted to compile it into a simple structure that anyone could pick up and teach or learn. They did not want to change their frameworks to support the depth of the work I had done. They wanted a mainstream program with an Aboriginal twist which is not what I agreed to. They didn’t want me to educate their staff in culturally appropriate training before they presented the work.A large part of me wondered if they thought they could get away with disrepecting my culture because I am a fair-skinned Aborignal person and not ‘black enough’ to warrant practicing respectful customs in my presence.Why didn’t they want to do things properly? Why didn’t we do it the Because it’s too much hard work. That’s the problem. Many westernised organisations do not understand the fundamentally different ways that Indigenous people work. It’s these same organisations that brand themselves as ‘Culturally Diverse and yet they don’t want to accept when a young Aboriginal woman says ‘hold on a minute, this needs to be done differently to support my culture rather than take away from it’.Hmm… Sounds all too familiar right?There was a non-indigenous person employed to check my cultural customs against someone else’s and then relay to me that my cultural customs were ‘incorrect’. Now clearly this person was behaving ignorantly. Aboriginal customs differ across the country so for them to say my work and customs were incorrect was extremely disrespectful to my culture and family. The problem was that this was the only person who was employed to deal with and work with the aboriginal staff (including myself). Unfortunately this person had a lack of deeper cultural competency regarding Aboriginal people, but their qualifications and previous job roles somehow made up for it. So they had every right to check my Aboriginal culture against someone else’s, right? I’ll let you be the judge of that.So that was it. They had bought my cultural identity and claimed it as their intellectual property, because this is what so many businesses do. I’m sure they had the best intentions, but when push came to shove and I questioned anything, I was made to feel like I did not have a say around the work I had done. My contracts did not properly support me as an Indigenous person completing culturally sensitive work and because I was naive, they took advantage of that.Not only did they take advantage, but when I resigned due to feeling mistreated they did not look into it or follow it up appropriately. Instead, the same person who said my cultural customs were incorrect also insinuated theft (by me) by saying that I had taken some of the company’s equipment and needed to pay for it. This was obviously inappropriate as I had provided evidence to back myself up and I saw this as a blatant attack to taint my professional reputation before I left the company. It got nasty. Rather than the company chosing to support the Aboriginal woman who created the work (me) they chose to support the non-indigenous person all while trying to intimidate me and trivialise my complaints.Now I am by no means the first Aboriginal person to feel disgruntled after doing ‘black’ work for a ‘white’ corporation. This has been happening for as long as I can remember. My mother and brother have been through the same situations. My extended family, brothers and sisters have had their culture ripped from them without even knowing it because they’re getting paid in a dollar amount.Knowledge culture and commodity culture need to be able to co-exist. What I’m here to say is don’t sell out. Even if you think you’re helping your people or community don’t give away your identity to corporations seeking to make money off your culture. Make sure your employers have appropriate networks to support your cultural identity. Seek legal advice, check and alter contracts to ensure you are being supported in the workplace and have a network of people you can trust to back you up if ever you find yourself in a situation like I did.Holding on to your identity and being able to choose who you share your culture with is very important. You don’t want just anybody coming in a trying to take over everything you, your family and your ancestors have worked so hard to hold on to.CULTURE IS NOT A COMMODITY.#culturenotcommodityWritten By: Nathalie McLeanReality is wrong, dreams are for real | Actress | Writer | Foodie | Melbourne | ♛ |#nmclean instagram:

Culture shock.Am I shocked of the culture here? Am I unable to adjust and will be moving back? Am I not accustomed to others or not making friends? I like to set expectations from the beginning and so lots of asking around, reading blogs and basic research before I moved here. I even spent two months in HK before I packed my bags. I was highly encouraged by a girlfriend (my friend that is a girl — thank you Dianna) to stay for more than a week, but rather a month, to get a feel so that I could see if I really did like the ways here. I knew that the culture would be different or that it would be a meld of both western and eastern. So am I shocked? I wouldn’t say overall shocked (as I was aware that it would be different) but more so to what degree and how each cultural behaviour was different.If you were to ask me “HK is kind of unique like that. It seems that what I thought would be a short but And this is my journey. My journey of learning my parents’ backgrounds; to understand where they come from, the history and why they brought me up the way they did.So my journey begins.all things growth in #tech #business #governance. currently 

Something very, very big is about to happen in culture, and you’re about to get a front row seat.But first, you should know I have been here awhile. In the 1990s I developed software patents now cited as prior art by huge firms like IBM, Microsoft, Xerox, and ATT. I have personally taught over 70,000 professional software developers. I have consulted on culture for Zappos, Capital One, Intuit, CIGNA, TheHartford, and many other companies looking to improve.I’m an author and developer of useful culture technologies, and so are many of my friends. These innovative colleagues include Michele and Jim McCarthy (Core Protocols), Jeff Sutherland and Ken Schwaber (Scrum), John Buck (Sociocracy), Eric Raymond (open source), and Harrison Owen (Open Space).I could go on , but I’m getting ahead of myself.It’s time for the story.Lately, we’ve been absolutely saturated with news from Zappos and the introduction of a system called ‘holacracy’ into that company.And the noise-to-signal ratio is huge.Lots and lots of noise. Not a lot of signal.Question:Is holacracy a large part of an Hmmm. Let’s see…One of the problems with holacracy is the If you create a derivative work, you Dubious? Please don’t be: even Creative Commons is quick to say, on their web site:(Now, this is what I want you to know: this kind of license The closed-source license that holacracy is using These license restrictions are This is a big, huge problem, because ‘holacracy’ is being held up as a paragon of business innovation. As the latest-and-greatest way to organize. As innovation. As something hip, and cool, and open, and great ! Part of the future…Stop right there. This raises a question:…do we really want a future that is closed to innovation?“Culture tech”, in part, is any authority-distribution scheme that solves a set of problems, for a group of people, who are working together. Culture technology usually clearly defines how Culture technology includes frameworks, meeting designs and other kinds of sociological structures that make work (or Some of the best culture technology available today is now being thoughtfully, deliberately and intentionally published… under free-to-innovate, “open source” licensing.For example:Likewise, the My own culture-technology for bringing change to organizations, called A system called That’s What is going on here?Why are all of the authors and all the designers of all this culture-technology Why are the authors of sociocracy, Scrum, the Core Protocols, Prime/OS (and more) Closed licensing schemes discourage innovation.Meanwhile, the pace of change is actually The basic idea here is that we need We need to be able to respond to change We have entered a period where attempting to control culture-technology IP via closed-source licensing is on the wrong side of history. Inappropriate for the times. If closed-source licensing for culture-technology is a vestige of the past, perpetuating the very problems we are trying to solve…why are we honoring that?Progressive culture-technology authors are taking matters into their own hands. Jeff Sutherland and Ken Schwaber. John Buck. Jim and Michele McCarthy. Yours truly.We are conspiring.We are releasing our culture-technology “source code” as Why?Because: we are all here at a time when The alternative model- This is why all of the aforementioned designers of useful culture-technology have elected to publish their designs as And this is why the licensing model being put forth by ‘holacracy’ is the wrong thing… and the wrong time.Free to Closed source licensing for culture technology (like holacracy) severely limits innovation… at a time when we need to And it is just a matter of time before everyone “clicks” with this reality in a really, really big way.Because: Bravo Michele. Bravo Jim.The Culture Technology movement is just getting underway. While you are waiting for your first issue, consider learning more about Consultant  keynote speaker on rapid team learning  game mechanics. I help you quickly apply what actually works. Author of bestselling book, TheCultureGame.

Juggling Wordsmith and founding editor of A black magazine for people too hip for black magazines. Get at us: 

On Friday I attended the inaugural My motivations for attending were two-fold: first, because I’m starting to realize that to take my productivity consulting/training to the next level, I’m going to have to go deeper than day-to-day habits, and start working with the culture that informs them. Second, Forte Labs is hiring, and I want to make sure I create a strong culture from day one.Signing up for this conference, I was afraid it would be mostly fluff, the stuff of “Our Company Values” plaques and vapid press releases about “employee engagement.” And there was definitely a lot of that.But I was also pleasantly surprised by the substance. HR departments everywhere are quickly evolving — from buffers built to protect the company from its own employees, to designers of compelling EX (employee experience) — and this is changing the game.Here are the most interesting, non-obvious lessons I learned as a newbie in the world of “culture.”First, what it’s not:As Don’t tell me what employees think, believe, or value, tell me how they behave under conditions of uncertainty. Enron apparently had their “corporate values” engraved on their office walls. I’m sure they were very inspirational. But what we remember today is the unethical actions that destroyed them.Defining culture in terms of actions opens it up to a slew of new tools. It makes it something explicit that can be measured, understood, and improved over time. It makes it tangible, which creates accountability, which creates change.As Two companies may offer free lunch to their employees, but with very different motivations: for one, it is a way to get people to stay at work longer and work harder; for another, it may be to encourage conversation and build community.You may be wondering — “Why not both?” — but the truth is that the primary motivation will always find its way to the surface. In the small decisions about how, when, where, and by whom lunch is served, in the tiny conflicts between lunch and other priorities, the real reason behind the perk will inevitably be unmasked. And employees will be watching.Only when that happens will you know whether this perk is building culture, or undermining it.Fresh off the Quantified Self Conference the previous week, I assumed Culture Summit would be the polar opposite. I thought the former would be about objective measurement, and the latter about feel-good slogans.Little did I know, the culture space is in the midst of a measurement revolution at least as impactful as what’s going on in personal health.The stars of the conference were companies like As in seemingly every field, the fingerprints of Lean Methodology were everywhere. CultureAmp CEO He told the story of a customer whose executives believed that accountability was their most pressing problem. After a series of surveys, they discovered that their employees were split down the middle — half had “personal responsibility for their work” as their #1 value, while the other half had “breaking rules to get things done” as their top value. At first they thought that this reflected different departments (like marketing vs. legal), but further analysis showed that the split was present in 6 out of 7 departments. This insight guided their efforts at changing their culture.This commitment to measurement was exemplified in Didier’s final point: once you measure the status quo, instead of getting excited and trying to CHANGE ALL THE THINGS!, you should instead change just one thing, and then measure again. Only this way can you know what’s working, and what’s not.Not nearly as exciting, but this is the mentality of a scientist. I’d love to see more collaboration between the QS and Culture communities.Many of the speakers mentioned the importance of cultural “alignment” between individuals, teams, and the company as a whole, with But this has always brought up questions for me: doesn’t hiring for “culture fit” implicitly mean hiring people that are just like you (as I liked Baumgartner’s answer: the job of culture designers is not to constantly change the company values to align with employees’ values, nor to force employees to align with company values. Their job is to identify the core values of both the company and employees, and This brings up all sorts of interesting thought experiments that go way beyond company perks:Baumgartner’s quote above suggests (to me) that these questions are not solved through top-down policies and procedures, but through an HR department that understands that alignment does not equal conformity, and is ready to help employees navigate the distinction.A big goal of mine in attending this event was to find specific examples of what it means to create a healthy culture. If culture is behavior, what are the behaviors we can take to turn the tide?Here are some of the most interesting examples I heard:She makes an effort to create a great experience on new hires’ first day, with balloon welcomes, company-wide announcements, and a well-organized onboarding process. More unusually, she tries to make their last day just as memorable, regardless of the reason for leaving, knowing that this ex-employee will continue to represent the company as they continue their career.There were a number of examples of “employee engagement” breaking out of the strict confines of annual surveys and awkward performance reviews, to become a part of people’s day-to-day workflows.Another great example of this was presented by When I worked at an Apple Store in college, we kept the Apple “code of conduct” on a little card tucked into the back of our name badges. It was a tangible artifact representing our commitment to “surprising and delighting” our customers. These tools are the same idea repackaged for the digital, mobile age.I’ve long been skeptical of company “volunteer days.” It just didn’t seem like companies were the best vehicle for community service, with their tangled interests and incentives.But Nina McQueen made a good case for LinkedIn’s monthly InDays — one day per month that all employees use to work on special projects, volunteer in the community, or learn new things.Two things set the idea apart for me: each month has a special theme, allowing the company to more clearly articulate the “why” of the day, and focus their efforts on a narrow target that is more likely to make a difference. Themes include community, creativity, environment, giving back, play, culture, relationships, wellness, learning, reflection, and vision.A team of programmers can spend the day building a more efficient backend system for an NGO recruitment drive, while those who like to get their hands dirty can be signing up volunteers on the ground. Everyone can contribute to the same theme while using their unique talents.Second, the fact that this tradition has grown to many other locations around the world, including other companies and organizations. It seemed clear to me that their commitment to InDays was much more than lip service.As we heard from Damian Madray in a breakout session on culture design, Branding enshrines the symbolic values that make your product more than a commodity. Culture enshrines the values that make your job more than a paycheck.Branding integrates seemingly disconnected products and services into a coherent lifestyle. Culture integrates disconnected policies and procedures into a coherent workstyle.The best branding campaigns come from deep inside a company, because it is only these bedrock values that can provide the authenticity and consistency that make the brand convincing. What do we find when we look into the soul of a company? Its culture.Airbnb came up constantly as an example of a culture-first company, and in a later conversation with a friend, he told me about a room at Airbnb HQ called “The Library.” Apparently it is styled to look like an old-fashioned library, with wall-to-wall books and clerk-style green reading lamps. Not only is this just plain cool, creating a silent working environment that everyone understands, I think it also expresses a deep-seated belief within their culture: that physical spaces change the way we think, feel, and relate. Intentional spaces can support intentional work.Didier Elzinga described it this way: branding is the promise you make to your customer; culture is how you deliver on it. Cost and efficiency used to be the heroes of sustained competitive advantage. Google made engineers the heroes. Apple made designers the heroes. Time will tell if Airbnb and others succeed in making culture the hero.The day was a whirlwind, but I came away with a distinct feeling: culture is way more than a framed Mission Statement on the wall. It’s way more than bean-bag chairs and standing desks.It is the working title for something that is just beginning to emerge, something we’re just beginning to understand: an emergent property of purpose-driven groups of humans, a force that’s been around since before we walked on two legs, and that we’re finally beginning to recognize lies at the intersection between individual satisfaction and business performance in a chaotic, competitive, creativity-driven world.If you are working on any aspect of behavior change within an organization (and I believe we pretty much all are), culture answers the questions: What will they do after I leave the room? What will they do when they encounter a novel situation? Why have these people chosen to spend a significant portion of their lives together? And these turn out to be the most important questions. Everything else is wishful thinking, or empty PR.I’m looking forward to seeing how the role of culture continues to evolve. I’m excited to see startups who care about these things taking their place on the world stage. And I very much intend to continue thinking of my work in the context of sustainable, humane, intentional work cultures.I hope you’ll do the same.I run productivity consultancy Forte Labs at fortelabs.cofortelabs.co

Reykjavík on August 13, 2015As human beings we go through different stages. We keep realigning our focus as that-thing-called-life develops. What was a logical top priority on high school makes us feel embarrassed in a party just a few years later.Developers — despite it what might seem looking at HackerNews — are not different, we’re human beings too. We shift from obsessing on every single detail of the last MacBook to read every book on parenting. One funny thing on my personal experience of this evolution is that over time I’ve become During the last 10 years I’ve got more and more obsessed with the In 2010 I moved to Iceland, I got interested on the startup approach used here I still care and love researching new Whenever I mention these topics I usually get two reactions.From From the Of course this mentality provokes important problems, like the Last week I found Most human groups find their way to These songs reflect on the lives and stories of the criminals, sometimes praising them, but very often openly criticizing Recorded with phones, shared on Snapchat and Instagram, these videos connect with the suffering and daily reality of millions. You can hear their creators asking the audience to like and follow. Uniquely suited for the network, the narcocorridos As it’s well known these days Principal at 

here i present u, how to friends are so close and how they are importnt for our culture.these gurls: Rennally and Igori’ll post a video soonPH BY: DASHFuturo publicitário mirim. Apaixonado pela 7ª arte, e um amante da literatura deste nosso mundo. Ps: Quero ser diretor de cinema ou fotografia,algum dia…Cinema, livros, opiniões, textos, política, publicidade, fotografia, diversidade e muita arte.

As the grandeur of the antebellum era swiftly declined and Louisiana’s gentry dissolved, the people of Louisiana sought a new culture that the poor would call their own. While modern Louisiana culture is commonly referred to as Cajun, it is a misleading term. Louisiana’s current Cajun culture is not only built upon the practices of the French who migrated from Nova Scotia post the French and Indian War, but also traces its roots back to numerous countries whose citizens who sought a better life in the New World only to find poverty after immigration. Following the loss of the Civil War, unity became a necessity for Louisiana as the state was plunged into an economic depression, which meant that immigrants of many flavors would band together via one universal language: food.Although Louisiana is universally known for its French roots, it is more fitting to begin with the nationality which contributed the most to Louisiana’s success. The Native Americans introduced the immigrants to the richest part of Louisiana which is known as the swamp floor pantry. Crawfish, shrimp, crabs, and oysters were carelessly tossed out by immigrants who didn’t understand the value that swamps offered. To other immigrants, swamps were wasteland that seemed productive only in breeding mosquitoes. However, Native Americans showed other immigrants how to catch and cook food which was both abundant and quite easily accessible. If it were not for the Native Americans, Louisiana’s food would have been missing ingredients both unique and native its land.Likewise, the French and Cajun immigrants left a huge imprint on Louisiana’s food and culture. The roux, a soup base made of flour and butter, originated from the French and serves as the basis for most of the iconic Louisiana dishes. Gumbo is the most notable of all of Louisiana’s roux-based soups and is available in many different combinations from seafood to duck and sausage. In addition, Louisiana’s favorite breakfast comes from the French. Beignets are made of fried dough and topped with powdered sugar, which may sound more like dessert than breakfast; however, they are a perfectly acceptable breakfast food and are the reason that Café du Monde in New Orleans a famous tourist attraction.Correspondingly, there are the Spanish, who owned Louisiana before the French and through a little property-swapping. Paella is a Spanish dish which was altered to suit the taste buds of Louisiana. Today, the Louisiana version is well known as jambalaya. In addition, the Spanish brought the spice and flavor to Louisiana cuisine that is considered its trademark, such as chili peppers.Equally as important are the Germans. Their most prominent contribution was sausage making. Louisiana has several sausages exclusive to the state. Andouille and Boudin are special sausages used in jambalaya and gumbo which add to the unique flavor of Louisiana food. Cheese was also a German contribution to Louisiana cuisine. Contrary to the name, Creole cream cheese was brought over by the Germans also.Furthermore, there were the English and Italians who brought their own ideas to the mix as well. The English introduced bread pudding, a favorite dessert, and pastries. Cured, un-smoked hams and bacons were also notable contributions of the English. Italians brought over olive oil, pastas, and tomatoes. Tomatoes are used as an alternative to traditional “brown” jambalayas to create “red” jambalaya, also called Creole jambalaya. This is another misleading term because the Italians introduced the tomato to Louisiana dishes.It is also important to realize the effect that former slaves had on Louisiana cuisine. After slavery turned its ugly head, African Americans integrated into Louisiana society and made their own contributions to the state’s cuisine. Soul food, or using leftover cuts of meat or vegetables, serves as the basis for Louisiana food. Dishes like gumbo were originally used to get rid of scraps of meat or seafood by making them into an easy soup and it is clear to see that the African American concept of soul food inspired the recipe. African Americans were also expert preservers and introduced drying, pickling, and smoking to Louisiana food.After all, “We don’t eat to live, we live to eat,” can be heard as often as “Laissez Le Bon Ton Roulet” down the streets of New Orleans, proving how tightly Louisiana citizens hold on to food as part of their cultural identity. While the French portion of Louisiana history is so openly celebrated, the other contributions to Louisiana culture are sadly ignored; however, they cannot be completely suppressed. No matter what name given to Louisiana culture, it will remain the True Melting Pot of a people united in food. 1�=]

Creating a creative team — and nurturing the creativity of individuals — is an art and a science. Here in the SAP Design and Co-Innovation Center, we have made it our mission to foster creativity that sparks innovation. Let me share with you seven steps to creating and cultivating a creative culture:When hiring someone, in addition to checking candidates’ skill set via their resumes, find a way to check out their mindset. For example, in our team, we play warm-up games as part of design thinking workshops, so, we have found it useful to ask the candidate to lead a warm-up game with the team. We let the candidate pick the game to play. And this choice tells us a lot about the candidate.Once you hire team members, set expectations that they are signing up to be continuous learners. Someone might be an expert in one area, but we expect that individual to stretch and learn adjacent areas to be able to collaborate effectively with the rest of the team. (For more on multifaceted team members, click Un-channeled creativity could lead to chaos if people feel constrained from expressing themselves. To give your team a way to channel their creative energy, encourage them to understand their customer’s needs, aspirations, pain points and build a deep empathy for them. In the Design and Co-innovation Center, we do this through a variety of research methods before every project — onsite observation, interviews, surveys, and even guerrilla methods such as friends and family research or man-on the street interviews to walk in the shoes of the user and ground our design decisions on empathy. This will allow your team to focus on the right problems and create customer value.A creative team needs to feel empowered. They need to have the freedom and responsibility to use their creative problem solving skills to do their best work. As a leader, your main job is to inspire them and remove obstacles from their path.At the same time, creativity is fragile, and it needs to be nurtured. As a leader, setting people up for success involves connecting them to the right resources including as domain experts, and offering the right guidance at the right time, so they don’t waste too much time going in the wrong direction.No matter how much a leader sets up her team for success, there will inevitably be failures. And that is okay as long as the team views failures as part of the iterative creative process. Celebrate the ideas that were generated and the creativity that was unleashed. In my experience, if the idea was a good one, you will get a chance again to implement it in a new project. And if it was not good, this was a valuable learning opportunity for you and the team. Take it in stride.And finally, don’t get too comfortable. Fostering creativity is a full-time job. Teams will change, your mission will change, your organization will change. and nurturing a culture for creativity and innovation is a continuous processHead of Design  Co-Innovation Center, America. creative leader, design thinker, author, TEDx speaker, educator.

I recently read an article about a startup, and in it they talked about their culture. The main bring ups were bonuses, lunches, and something about beer being on tap. Meanwhile, there was also talk about bitter employee arguments, people throwing each other under the bus, and a generally hostile sounding work environment. It seems that no one realized that the latter is their actual culture.When team members talk about culture, the conversation should be comprised of the handful of differentiating principles the team embodies that they are Director of Engineering at Tradesy

Hacker culture was intended to capture an incredibly broad set of people — those who have ideas and [want to] make things.Imposing “hackathons” upon such an inherently broad community was a mistake in the first place.Inevitable, perhaps. But a mistake.usually the only liberal artist in the room.

Human Resource recruiting efforts have dramatically changed over the last decade. HR now takes a more comprehensive approach to hiring new employees, and instead of just focusing on tangible skills and knowledge, the focus has been shifted to company culture and employee fit. The term ‘culture’ is thrown around a lot within organizations and often loses sight of the big picture. The bottom line is that your company culture has to do with how your employees think, act, and behave, while in the workplace.Curious about our process? Visit Lane HQ during Toronto’s Think you’d be a good fit? Visit Lane’s Creating smart workplaces.A collection of ideas, opinions, successes, and failures.

Company culture matters. That’s something few would argue, but it requires a large commitment to build a good culture.But time after time studies show that commitment pays off. Every day, people across your organization think about your culture and it affects how their opinion of your company and their job. In fact, So as you focus on unique ways to improve your culture, you’re probably looking for some guidance on how to keep that commitment a priority. At You can do this through wellness programs the promote physical health, flexible schedules that promote more family time or, as we help teams with at viperks, through an employee discount program that helps them buy experiences they want and things they need. These kinds of programs show that you care about employee well being and help provide a better work-life balance.Want to learn more about how you can help your employees be happier and more productive? Founder  CEO at viperks, an Employee Appreciation Program

In some ways, the cultural uniqueness of Silicon Valley is obvious and much-discussed. For example, the hyper-individualistic and hedonistic Burning Man Arts Festival is often cited as an extension of the Valley’s party scene. On the corporate level, most startups are considered to have very “flat” hierarchies, and Facebook’s old maxim “Move fast and break things” is considered widely representative. But what are some of the less visible ways that Valley culture can surprise newcomers?Lisa Enckell is a marketing and product consultant who moved to the Bay Area from Sweden. She says: “In Sweden, work is very consensus-based — you talk to everyone before you make a decision and everyone agrees. I had the opportunity to lead a team both in Sweden and in the US, and here in the US, as the manager, they expected me to make the decision. In Sweden, it’s more like, whoever is the expert should run with it. They are trusted. Here you are the manager. It was good for me because I had to work on those things and be more in charge.”In other words, it seems that some corners of Bay Area startup culture are more managerial than one might expect, given the Valley’s reputation for flat organizations. But the Valley’s still well-known for openness. Sandi MacPherson, founder of Quibb, moved here from Canada. She observes: “Startups here are much more open and recognize the value of sharing information and working together. In Toronto, I met a couple of entrepreneurs who wouldn’t actually tell me what they’re working on — they were afraid I’d steal their idea. I’ve never experienced this perspective during my four years in the Bay Area.”A South Korean tech employee who preferred not to be named shared some thoughts about networking differences between cultures.Perhaps this is partly because many Bay Area personalities are outsized and value their uniqueness. After all, when strong personalities meet each other, they may need extra time to gel before they’re able to accomplish anything. MacPherson talked a bit this, too: “Unique personalities and perspectives are highly valued in the Bay Area,” she says. “I remember working with someone in Toronto who wore Vibram toe shoes to work for a few days. Everyone thought he was kinda goofy, and made fun of him, and he couldn’t wear them on days when he had important meetings. I don’t think that would ever happen here — the US and the Bay Area definitely value individuality in a much different way.This “uniqueness” has specific cultural identifiers: they might include Vibram-wearing, Burning Man attendance, and having a set “uniform” (i.e. wearing the same color t-shirt each day, in order to reduce decision fatigue in the morning). How many other uniquenesses are truly valued? Perhaps it’s hard to say from within the bubble.Share what youre reading for work.

I’ve sung since I was really young, but I didn’t formally train until I was in my 30s when I did my Masters. What drives me is the belief that music is for everybody so I like to collaborate and work with different individuals and groups to create and perform new music.I co-founded Salon London nearly seven years ago with I really don’t have one. At the moment my life is more in phases with different projects. May is touring. June is the Also Festival. End of June / July I’m working on a TV project. Summer festivals with Salon. September — Salon London returns.The ones you mention were all pretty amazing. The two that probably stand out the most are M.I.A. as she’s such a fascinating person and artist. I love that she’s political, intelligent and uses her voice and musicality in interesting and unique ways. She’s her own creation. She references so many musical styles, yet always sounds contemporary and individual.The other is Yoko Ono. I think she’s vastly underrated as a conceptual artist, musically too. Watching an amazing woman in her 70s yelping an incredible primeval sound for 20 minutes with Siouxie Sioux and getting the whole of the Festival Hall joining in was one of my favourite moments on stage ever.I’m lucky that I love what I do. Working with people and actually singing, composing and coaching feels easy because it’s so absorbing. The hardest thing for me is being on the move as I’m on tour and remembering not to leave a trail of my belongings behind me.1. Set your own agenda — what does success mean to you?2. Be active — learn to understand and master as much as you can about the process of creating, producing and performing music by doing it.3. Be a music fan.4. Build relationships — with like-minded people, people who inspire you, people you can learn from and people who can help you develop in terms of creativity and business.5. Be honest. People are drawn to authenticity and connecting with other humans.Helen and I both come from an arts background, she writes and I do music. We are both really interested in the developments happening as a result of new technology, scientific discoveries, improved brain imaging and fascinated by what motivates and moves people.So many! We established the Great question. I think Galileo. His discoveries were so cutting edge and challenging to society at the time. His impact has been undeniable.Online I read I’ve never had a Plan B! That’s probably where Salon comes in. It’s an incredible hobby that has grown beyond recognition, mainly down to the tireless work that Helen puts in.You can expect a unique performance in every city. Earth Meets Sky in its recorded form is electronica mixed with folk, soul and layered vocal arrangements. Live it’s very different. I’ve been working with local choirs and musicians to create a performance specific to each location. I’ve met so many amazing people and collaborated with a classical string quartet, a soul singer, an Afro-European choir, a rock guitarist, folk musicians. We’re mixing it up!Find out more about Juliet Conversations with people we find fascinating. 

The emergence of social media took the world by storm and was the beginning of something revolutionary. Social media is embraced around the world; it is fabricated into our everyday lives. This is because we are powering ourselves with technology. Leading to a tech-savvy world of humans.Today, there isn’t an immense issue regarding physical distance. This is because we can experience real-time communication, making it easier to interact with people from anywhere in the globe. The World Wide Web has brought together an open community for people to share their stories, interest and concerns happening around them.Many of us react to breaking news through social media. Some of the most horrific news stories spread easily over twitter, making the news real-time communication to people from anywhere in the globe. Making us a part of the ‘global village’. McLuhan’s concept of the ‘global village’ shockingly makes sense. It’s true that We live in a society in which many of us are prone to technology. I, myself, am cemented to my smartphone. It’s remarkable that I can video chat with members of every country with the help of technology and the Internet. By doing this, I can experience real-time communication with the person I’m video chatting to.The ‘global village’ has helped me understand culture and tradition from my family roots. Having family in the Middle East, I am able to communicate with them through social media and understand the language and values my parents were raised in. I have learned the greater difference between the culture I was raised in and the one my parents were raised in. Through telecommunication, I am able to understand the cultural norms and values of the Middle East.

Why should a talented developer choose to work with us at Sup? We ask ourselves this everyday.We’re small. We’ve raised $1.1m, launched our app and are rapidly building our team and audience. So what? A lot of companies are in a similar position.For us, it’s our culture that separates us from other companies. This is the first time we’ve written it down, we haven’t forced it, it’s been a natural process as we all want to work in a great development environment.We don’t have rules but these are headlines that we follow:We want to come to work excited about what we’re going to create, to hear about the problem someone solved last night and to share ideas about the app, industry or whatever.But being exciting doesn’t mean party all night, go skiing and fly back on a private jet at the weekend. It’s about exciting the minds of others around them, about discovery and sharing.We want to work with people who care about technology and its application. Those that constantly look for ways to improve their work and the team around them. Those that have non-work passions, organise events, protest, change things and in someway disrupt the world around them.But hiring exciting people is only the beginning. It doesn’t take long for an exciting person to get tired of a stagnant environment. Any project can get tedious after working on the same stuff day in, day out. Sup provides some super interesting challenges, many of which we haven’t figured out, but we all need to fix the itch of intrigue from time to time.This is why we have 20% time. A concept popularised by Google, 20% time allows us to spend 20% of our week working on whatever we like. A lot of companies talk about this but don’t actually push it through because they are too busy. For us, this is a classic “too busy cutting down a tree to sharpen the saw” scenario.A tech team is always busy and as a company we only have a small time frame to form our culture. This is why we do it now. In fact, we build it into our sprints and we tell each other off for not doing it.Everyone at Sup has something unique to bring to the team and we believe that the only way to share this knowledge is to show and tell teammates through peer programming.It is not only important when learning new skills but when writing tests to challenge each other to build the most simple and robust code possible.We work in an agile environment to create realistic expectations for everyone. This protects 20% time and allows us as a company to make better decisions on priority.Most importantly, we don’t allow creep. We hate creep and we like to be happy. We also run flat structures, quick daily standups, retrospectives and release trains.We write tests to design better code, increase confidence and for documentation. We don’t care about our percentage of coverage, we focus on core behaviours and write tests before we write code.As a team, we decide what should be tested and when we’re happy with tests for a given behaviour. We don’t test for future functionality and we don’t optimise prematurely.It’s critical to put ideas up for criticism. If we don’t share what we do then we don’t learn. But equally, having exciting people on the team means that we have things to share too.Most importantly to us, we get stuff done. We’re output-oriented as we’ve all experienced jobs where features are talked about only to be relegated to the bottom of the backlog and then quietly assassinated.It only took us one week to implement and release 3D Touch. We keep our discussions short and to the point. We save the rambling conversations for the pub.One of the core business principles is to have fun. We love what we do and who we work with. We don’t force fun: hang out if you want or not. But we’re pretty good at COD, product ideas and getting on guestlists.If you’re interested in building awesome things with us, come and say hello CTO Sup App

This is my first post, I was encouraged by a friend of mine here in Sweden (where I live currently) to start writing about what I’ve read, learned, experienced and so on through my (oh so) interesting life that I get to live. (Yes that was sarcasm, and yes, I believe we need a Now, I’ve always felt awkward at writing things down, I read a lot (from various sources), but I never felt that gave me the right to write things myself, that my opinion should matter so much that it should be written down and available for review (either by me or others). Maybe that’s based on my (many) insecurities or maybe it’s true and I’m just obnoxious by writing this down. Either way I hope this can be a learning experience for me, that I will learn to actually like what I write, and that I will write more, as I do think I am seriously lacking experience in that domain. Be it emails, letters, cards, instant messages, texts (yes, even emojis) I’ve always found myself limited in writing. This won’t change just by writing a few words in a post on the internet somewhere, but I hope it can open up my possibilities to the use of this medium of expressing myself.So far, so good, but to get on with the title (I wrote the title before writing the article, I’m not sure if I’m supposed to do that but I felt like it would inspire me and direct me in my writing, which I guess is a good thing, right? oh insecurities, here you creep in again; also, how can a parenthesis be? I diverse yet again). So, about culture: this is a subject that inspires me because I think about it often and am often reminded of it constantly (or at least I feel that way).First, the definition of culture:or(both definitions taken from Google by typing I’m not sure which definitions I’d be talking about mainly, as I believe both ideas are linked: I’ve been reading a lot about “Company Culture” lately and its different meanings and how to create it and how to maintain it and so on. So far, I think company culture is summed up nicely in a quote that is posted on a wall in our office:This goes well with my own definition if you replace “I also want to talk about Culture in the sense of the second definition, that is, in the sense of society’s culture, or the culture of the group that is around us that contains mainly people we don’t know, i.e citizens of the same place where we live, and/or citizens from the place where we are from. This is the kind of culture that I am more interested in, even if the group culture is also interesting to me. This culture is the one that tells me to say “I’ve been living here in Sweden for 7 months now, which actually doesn’t feel that long but it’s also the longest I’ve ever lived outside of France (for the record: 5 months in Montreal, 3 months in Geneva, 2 months in Berlin, and countless trips to my family in England where it almost feels like I’ve lived there for at least a few months) and I, of course, have noticed significant differences in the culture here versus France, some are apparent, like how everyone queues for everything everywhere (even if Stockholm is less like that than outside the city, it’s still a lot more than Paris), some I’ve had to make mistakes before realising it (like how nobody talks about race/origin/immigration issues and topics here in Sweden because it’s taboo). I have found that I will not change who I am to fit in to the culture (I will still take great pride in the fact that I grew up in France and that I speak the most beautiful language in the world: French), but I believe in adapting to the culture nonetheless (I will stay nicely in the queue and try not to complain to much anytime I can).So to conclude this little writing excercise I’ve forced upon myself: I think people should try to adapt to the culture around them, but they should also contribute. When in a small group setting (like an office of 20–25 people), being known as the Frenchman and bringing I think culture defines us, but we also get to define culture for other people.

Culture is a heavy word, its not something that can be measured yet can be felt within the confines of an office space, interactions of your product and behaviour of your employees. Usually you will find a lot of startups tout their culture and why they are different, but almost 99.9% of the time they are creating a mirage of what their culture is rather than really molding it. Its not easy for a founder to accept that his company culture is not where he wants it to be, but to ignore it makes no sense.I have decided not to ignore it :) . I have never had the time to ponder on this because the first few people at Last week I attended a conference organized by This graphic speaks a lot about how behaviour works in a simple structure, most of the guys One of the first things they talked about in the talk was to publicly define your culture and values, this is something I had worked on a long time back but never published it, mostly because it never felt relevant, I will work on that again and publish that soon. This will be followed by some more posts on the vision of @TeliportMe, our journey so far and our journey ahead.CEO@TeliportMe, son and good friend . Stuff said on twitter do not reflect my true opinion but as my stepping stone to standup comedya company is a journey which has plenty of stories to share, these are some of them.

Culture doesn’t manifest in an instant, nor is it simply defined. Culture is an articulated experience. It’s a vision of the individual cloaked within communal contextualization. In the context of Vancouver’s technology community it’s fair to ask how its culture is impacting the culture of our city today, and will do so tomorrow.There’s no turning a blind eye, or deaf ear on Vancouver’s affordable housing challenges.Recently The evening was framed around sparking a conversation for us to identify with the gentrification related tensions boiling up in San Francisco. Well-paid tech workers are squeezing and skewing the notion of affordable housing. Longtime local residents are being displaced. There are transportation issues. There are social mobility issues. Highly visible symbols such as the Google buses are now targets of protest.For some, gentrification is a blight. It’s easy fodder for those shining the light on the darkening and dangerous spectre of our widening social discrepancies to decry. There’s no turning a blind eye, or deaf ear on Vancouver’s affordable housing challenges. The Downtown Eastside is seeing the spread of trendy new condos, restaurants, and shops — much to the ire of some low-income residents, and social activists. While fingers aren’t pointed at Vancouver’s emerging tech scene, it will take leadership by example to ensure we create a culture of inclusion over displacement.It’s an unfair and overreaching generalization suggesting that the San Francisco tech community bears the full burden for their trend, but they can not abdicate social responsibility either. What’s happening only two hours flying time south of Vancouver serves as a strong cautionary tale for all. Holmes has already lent voice to this topic in a Financial Post article (August 2014) “Holmes began by asking the panel “why do you each think giving is important in your organizations?” Giving is one element of defining cultural spirit which could help us avoid gentrification related social maladies. Unfortunately, too much time was spent talking about giving, rather than focusing on a dialogue around what the night was billed as.The panel participants are passionate and committed to the issues, and undeniably quotable. It was easy filling the Twitter stream with nuggets like:@andreareimer @SteveRio “- giving is more than just doling out money — time, resources, and voice matter too” @andreareimer “compassion should be 24/7″ @johnbromley “giving is about democratization” 30% of our pay max go to housing #notapennymore via @Steve_Media. 3 levels of govt needed for #affordablehousingAdding the promotion The #Tech4GoodYVR is offering the chance for individuals to spend one-on-one time with some of Vancouver’s tech leaders. Proceeds from the winning bids will go to It’s important asking how are we going to reap the rewards of a booming tech scene while avoiding what is plaguing San Francisco. 140 character sound-bites are not enough to strengthen a community culture. Building a culture of empathy combined with actionable intentions ensures our words won’t merely whither into the ether of nothingness.Mentionmapp.com Co-founder/CEO. Former West Coast Editor with BetaKit. Writer. Keeping the humanity in our conversations about technology.

As of late, I’ve found myself to be incredibly bored. Not necessarily bored with life, but more so bored with my lacking social life. You see, as someone who had a very small friend circle, and chose to stay home for college, I now find myself in a very unfamiliar and awkward space.I have decided to channel my newfound boredom into a series of entries that chronicle the adventures I have by myself. Because you know, the internet needs more people detailing their life experiences. I’ll try to do one of these at least every week.I’d put these all on my MySpace account, but I forgot the password.I’d put them on my Facebook page, but I’m afraid of all the dislikes I would get.One glaring hole that exists in my teenage life is fact that I have never once been to a concert of any sort. That changed this past Friday night when I ventured out to go see Jamie xx in Oakland, by myself. I had bought my tickets a week prior to the show, and was ready to get on my way to what would hopefully be the first of many more concert experiences.About thirty seconds after starting the car, I realized I had no idea how to get to Oakland. I knew it was north of me, but then again, so was Seattle. I asked the only qualified resource accessible to me for directions.Siri loaded up a route that lead to one of the fork-in-the-road decisions of the night. The directions I was given had me taking an extended route that went along a very large bridge, over a very large body of water. I had to betray Siri, and see what directions Google Maps had to offer.Sure enough, the directions Google offered me where better for the situation.Thanks for nothing, Siri.This was an especially sad moment because I had effectively gone 332 days without using Google Maps, and now that streak would have to come to an end.I was more sad about this than I should’ve been.World 1, Tanveer 0I had assumed that parking would be an issue, so I prepared ahead of time. Instead of circling around a series of confusing one-way streets looking for a parking space, I used an app, and simply paid a couple of bucks to reserve a spot for the night. Since it was a Friday night, I figured that the parking lot would be pretty full, but that wasn’t true at all. There were four cars other than my own, in what was a fairly large lot.World 2, Tanveer 0Equipped with my ticket, and my beloved grey sweatshirt, I walked to the Fox Theatre just as 8:00 rolled around. As I entered, I came across the merchandise booth, to which I fell in love with a hat for $30.I scrummaged my pockets. Only $25.I really wanted this hat, so I turned on the James Bond charm to convince the guy to sell it to me for less.Well, I tried.If you’re keeping score:World 3, Tanveer 0I wasn’t up for anymore awkward encounters, so I went to my seat, and was surprised to find that most of the venue was empty. It was 8:00, the time that was printed on the ticket, and not even a third of the seats were full. I sat there in my empty section while someone walked out onto the stage. I couldn’t make out a face due to all the fog that was consuming the stage, and since it was 8:00, my brain just assumed Jamie xx was on. The music started, and pretty much everyone who was there was on their phone doing things that you would expect people to be doing on their phones while at a concert.These things include, but are not limited to:At about 8:30, a couple came out and sat next to me. I was eager to start making conversation with them, but that’s not what came next. The couple immediately pulled out a vaporizer, and proceeded to start getting lifted. A few minutes passed by and I started to smell like pot. This was the second fork-in-the-road decision of the night. I could either stay and get an unpleasant contact high, or I could shift down to a different seat. In a bold, passive-aggressive action, I stood up and sat at the end of the row.The couple didn’t seem to care at all.World 4, Tanveer 0Forty-five minutes passed by, and I was feeling very underwhelmed. Nobody seemed to be paying attention, none of the music was from Jamie’s album, and my attempt to buy a hat fell flat on its face. Since I wasn’t in my assigned seat, I was nervously looking around every few minutes to see if anyone was coming to claim their territory. If someone came near my row, I would stand up and start walking back to my seat to avoid the awkwardness of giving someone a seat that was already warm. Luckily, nobody came to kick me off their turf. By the time 9:15 came around a new couple came in and sat next to me.I was fully expecting them to ignore me like the previous couple, but instead they started talking it up.By this time, the venue was packed. I was very confused at this point, and had earlier contemplated leaving early. I peaked down at my phone to see that it was 9:30, when all of a sudden everyone started applauding. I looked up to see another shrouded figure walk onto the stage. At this point I realized that this was Jamie xx, and I had been watching the opening act for the first 1.5 hours.Concert culture 1, Tanveer 0The actual show was pretty incredible. I can’t really rank it on a scale because I’ve never been to another concert before, but I can say that it was some of the most fun I have had in awhile.World 4, Tanveer 1Concert culture 1, Tanveer 1Most things here will be written in the middle of the night.

Over the past few months, I have engaged in several conversations around culture, traditions and their abuse. I have also engaged on the topic of misconstruing culture and of labeling something that isn’t part of a society’s norms and mores as “culture” simply because of occasional practice or because it is perceived today as “backward”One of the reemerging themes is that “our” culture (and by our I mean southern African culture) is inherently patriarchal and there’s an underlying current of abuse. Before I venture deeper into problematising this notion, I must clarify that “southern African culture” is a misnomer. For starters, southern Africa is not a homogenous mass of sameness and I won’t speak of it as such. While some practices are common amongst people who occupy similar spaces and whose geographical proximity contributes to shared experiences, such a culture, in my mind, simply does not exist. In fact, even within cordoned off spaces like the nationstate, a plethora of peoples exist and live under sometimes convergent, but often different norms and mores. The “culture” of a Karanga in Nemavuzhe, is unlike that of Zezuru in Buhera. Indeed, even within the “same” group there are differences… The Zulu in Matatiele and the Zulu in Hluhluwe are not one and the same. The reality is people like neat labels for neat boxes, so people and their cultures are clumped for convenience.Whatever the real case may be, one thing remains quite clear to me, some of the shared customs are largely misunderstood and/or abused. We are told that ours is a patriarchal culture… yet when I look at the family structure within my paternal group of people (the southern karanga), I note that my late grandmother was a matriarch in every meaning of the word. I note that decisions on various issues related to *my* life can not be made without consulting the women who borne me (yes that’s plural… for my mothers and her sisters) and my father’s sisters (vana tete).It is against this last point that I seek to explore the traditional custom of lobola/roora/paying of the bride “price.” A custom that has been abused to a point where its current manifestation deviates significantly from what was initially imagined. From my understanding, lobola, in and of itself, is not inherently problematic. The abuse of the tradition by greedy patriarchs is what makes it increasingly problematic in today’s world. Only today do you hear of exorbitant “fees” and talk of “Our child has a Masters” so she is “worth” 500 head of cattle. Only today. Back in the day, lobola was intended to bring two families together in celebration. You gave to your wife’s family a gift, which was agreed upon, that symbolised the coming together of her family with yours. It was not an expensive gift that was out of your family’s financial means. No. Auditors did not have to be called in to indeed show that your family could not afford what was asked of you. Your future wife was not livestock at market. As a groom you did not ponder how you would use your wife once “bought.” No. The beer was brewed, the cattle slaughtered, the drums heated. It was a negotiation in good faith and not an auction. If you intended to have a big wedding feast at a later date after the lobola then you Traditionally, as I have come to learn, one must not finish paying off lobola unless he intends to part ways with his wife. One continually “pays” the lobola to the wife’s family. A cow this year, a blanket next. Not big things, small gestures and tokens of appreciation throughout the marriage.Lobola was never intended to be part of a “culture” that abuses and subverts women. Perhaps its time we rethink how our developing societies have destroyed good practices and made them into cultural monstrosities.Veering off from lobola and into other aspects of culture, I must point out that there are some highly problematic aspects that are rooted in abusive patriarchal norms in which women are products and possessions. These, some contend, are an importation and not part of what the culture of our peoples was. Is. But it is our present reality. Where a woman calls her husband “baba/daddy” and lives in near servitude “for the sake of the children” she borne. It is in the exclusion of many women from discussions. It is in the physical and emotional abuse that is wrought on women and that they must put up with because “you are a woman.” In aunts telling female children that they are “broken” or “damaged goods” when they fall pregnant as if they had sex on their own… where female virginity defines the worth of a woman, but male virginity doesn’t. A man who impregnates is, after all, virile. But the fertility of a woman is only relevant when she bears the man the children his virility needs…I am going off on a tangent now… as do thoughts when they come streaming in… so I’ll stop here for now.|| Aspiring hand model  royal coffee taster |

| Duty-free 3CK ||

My association with For a person entering into Mypromovideos, the freedom you get here is a terrifying experience. You walk into a place where no one ever tells you what to do or what not to do. No fixed processes, no fixed timings and the most uncomfortable thing- no fixed work (at least for me). The sucker punch is that there is no hierarchy, hence no managers.A flat organization where you are free to change anything, for the better. If you could make something better and if you have a solution, you are always welcome. Our team meetings have the whole team shooting questions at each other irrespective of their designation or seniority.A month into the job, even for a person like me who believes in ‘Will over Skill’, my hiring was entirely perplexing. Even though my designation said ‘Content Marketer’, I didn’t know what the hell I was hired for.At that time, apart from all the drama I was going through in my personal life, the company was going through a huge transition. Two of our founders had exited and the catch was I was hired by one them. The changes were so abrupt that it made my head spin. I had to choose between the person who hired me or core team whose work I loved and admired.But deep inside, I knew what I wanted. So I chose ‘the team’ for I was selfish enough to want a job which is creatively kickass. So I expressed my interest to stay with the team. Simple, except that the team had to choose me. I was not in a situation to choose.A week later after expressing my interest to stay, Anil and Udhaya took me for a walk. Believing that it would be just a walk, I went. Anil was talking to me and he asked me a few questions about MyPromoVideos. I fared pretty well. Then he gave a real life situation in business and asked my opinion on it. I start of by saying ‘Though I am not an expert, I believe….’. He seemed pleased with my answer and told me that I did know quite a few things about business. I told him that I got to know all this from the books I’ve read but I believe in learning things while doing them.The next instance all I heard was Anil saying, ‘You are hired!’I will probably go down as the first person in history to not know that he was being interviewed. And as crazy it may seem, I did crack a second interview for the same company which I was already part of.Now back to the freedom part, I sat at office wanting to do something awesome but not knowing what to. It was emotionally taxing to sit at office and do nothing. I wandered around looking at people work and I felt like I didn’t add value. The random thoughts kept telling me that I was an emotional re-hire and that I didn’t deserve the job.But what do you do when you have lots to prove and nothing to lose, you man up and handle shit. So I texted Udhaya telling him that I was bored and I want an assignment. Luckily he came up with an idea for a blog. From that time onwards, the days at office have been amazing.You can have a awesome life in Mypromovideos as a slacker or as a sincere hard worker or a hustler. It is a soil in which any plant can survive, there is a place for all. But the point is you have to have your survival instincts at its peak or the system will drive you out.Now, I didn’t want to be a slacker, I was a hopeless hard worker but I always wanted to be a hustler. So I did hustle- I enjoy being the marketing guy, the guy who takes care of social media, the guy who runs ads, the guys who helps in sales, the guy who plays music on the common speakers and the guy who writes .Once I got a mail from one of our clients late in the night and when I got up to write a reply, I did see one of my mates online. Now that is something which no one can ask someone to do. That is something only a person who is love with his job would do.All this goes back to the strong culture which no one questions but everyone knows that it exists. The culture of doing what you love to help the organisation grow. The culture that empowers you to take your own decisions. The culture that lets you take ownership of your actions.Working for Having said my story, I am glad that a great number of companies are understanding the importance of good culture and that culture is not a one off team outing or a team dinner. It is a day-to-day activity, a company with a strong work culture neither requires team building activities nor requires micro-managers.PS: The writer works for Writer. Marketer @ MyPromoVideos. Comic.

© 2015 by A think tank devoted to the principles of free enterprise, limited government, individual freedom, traditional American values, and a strong national defense.The Social and Economic Trends that Shape America

Steve Jobs explains that we are exposed to a world which structurally limits our potential. Society through the implementation of Of course, culture undergoes evolution, and arguably the direction of culture is towards one which is more supportive of progress. The theology-driven Dark Ages and the institutions of racial and gender discriminations were eroded away by rigorous questioning and criticism. The fundamental problem is that such scrutiny necessitates openness. Without releasing our thoughts to others, we cannot expose them to an examination outside our own; however, the decision to be perfectly open is beneficial for the individual only if the entire society abides. This is not implementable because of the social equivalent of Le Chatelier’s principle, which, at a high level, states that systems have a tendency to approach an equilibrium. Although traditionally discussed in the context of physical systems, Le Chatlier’s principle provides insight into the study of social systems as well. An appropriate example of this tendency is the existence of subcultures and countercultures. Subcultures and countercultures emerge as a response to global trends. Historical observation suggests that subcultures emerge endogenously, and attempt to counterbalance major deviations. An example of this is the hippie subculture of the 1960’s, characterized by a rather extreme advocation of peace in a time of warfare. If the culture of perfect openness were to emerge, I believe it would only be fleeting, as such a culture is highly sensitive to deviation — even the smallest counterculture would cause a disruption.The unfortunate reality is that not everyone is capable of transforming the world in their image — culture has value in that it gives controlled direction to the masses who do not have the ability to construct their lives from first principles. What we need is a socio-political system in which conformity is encouraged, and the non-conformist, if productive, is met with great rewards, and if unsuccessful met with social cost. This discourages attempts at deviation by those who are not capable of implementing it productively. The measure of productivity is no longer exogenous — if the non-conformist is successful, then her ideology becomes the norm, and if she fails, then her ideology is marginalized and she faces the requisite consequence. This approach captures LeChatlier’s principle: the definition of the success of an action is whether or not the system changes in response to the action.Culture exists only to guide those without the intelligence and creativity to defy it productively.No longer explaining things.

As an experience designer, I’m in love with the different ways that I interact with people every day. I often don’t notice them when they’re happening, but when I reflect, I think a lot about the little things that made me smile each day. So here’s a list of the things that make my office better than yours, and why you should take it upon yourself to make your office a better place to be:Jen keeps a collection of assorted hand creams at her desk. And welcomes everyone to use them whenever possible. Today she showed me a new scent called, “The Forest” by Library of Flowers. She specifically bought it to appeal to the more “masculine” personalities in our office and I love that she thinks about the little things that will brighten peoples days.I’ve still yet to find out who started this, but we have a weekly question board that someone organizes. Each week there is either a new question, a new add-to-this drawing, or something else interactive written on a giant sheet of paper in a spot where there’s a ton of foot traffic in our office. The fact that someone takes the 5–10 minutes out of their day each week to think of a new activity and write it on the board for everyone’s enjoyment makes me incredibly happy. This week I drew a band-aid in a bowl of cereal. All of the old papers get hung up on the wall for us and our clients to check out as we walk by. It makes a huge difference in my day to just pause and take a minute to read the answers that my friends write on the board.Dan takes myself and my team to coffee sometimes and just lets us pour our hearts out about the stresses of that week. We don’t have to worry about filtering our feelings to him. We can talk shit, compliment someone, or just sit silently and enjoy our quad shot lattes. He doesn’t care what we want to talk about, just that we get some time away from our work to relax and de-stress.Yoona is one of the most talented artists I’ve ever seen. She loves to paint abstract art but she is also incredible at realism. A week ago she used the giant chalkboard wall in our kitchen to paint a memorial portrait of Grace Lee Boggs and wrote “Rest In Power.” Without her taking the time out of her day to do that, I admittedly would’ve never known who Grace was or the wonderful things she fought for.Bryan is one of the most passionate people I’ve met. We rarely get to talk because we’re on different teams, but I can hear him yelling across the office all the time. He gets incredibly worked up about his projects because he genuinely loves the games that he creates campaigns for. When there is a new game coming out that he’s excited about he’ll describe every detail of it to you if you’ll sit and listen. I rarely play video games but I love sitting and listening to people describe their passions to me.Chris has a collection of action figures and other different types of collectibles that encompass his desk. You could walk up to him and ask him anything about any of the different pieces and he’ll tell you where it’s from, what it stands for, why he loves it, etc. It’s amazing how real and open people are in this industry.Eva, Kirsten, Jake, and Caitlin will let me tell them wild stories from my weekend whenever I want. Regardless of the details, they’re always open to listening. Sometimes I make a fool of myself because I can be young and naive at times, but I can’t describe how much I value their advice and points-of-view. And their jokes. Lots and lots of jokes.Maggie sometimes brings in Mighty-O donuts when our team has had a really busy or stressful week. I try not to eat donuts too often but she always gets the mini ones so I don’t feel guilty grabbing one (or two) and just enjoying that two minutes of mouth-watering bliss.Robert posts the “Yiddish word of the day” on the northwest corkboard. It’s currently “Girbutz” which means “To scratch one’s balls.” or “To be lazy, e.g. ‘Sitting around all day scratching your balls’.” Nuff said.Ryan has a painting at his desk that’s incredibly personal to him. It’s the art for a comic book that his father created and the main character is based off of Ryan. His father is no longer a part of his life but he’ll openly tell you stories about when he was and how that has changed his perspective on life.Jason has a pile of chocolate squares sitting at his desk. From 85% cocoa to milk chocolate, there’s one for everyone. When I’ve had a shitty day or I just finished my lunch and I’m craving something sweet, I can always count on Jason to be there for my taste buds.I could go on and on about the interactions that I have with my friends every day, but I’ve made my point. Company culture isn’t something that is magically brewed up in a cauldron by the HR team. It’s a collection of the personalities, points-of-view, and experiences that everyone in your office brings to work each day. If you want your office to be different then start making it different. If you start it, the people that are worth keeping around will begin to follow suit. And don’t ask for permission—ask for a raise when you’re recognized for helping create an environment that everyone wants to be a part of.Dreamer and designer | Art director 

The news lately has been a plethora of stories about the riots in Baltimore, which designer celebrities wore to the Met Gala in New York City, and the upcoming presidential election. Somewhere in the midst of the national and local news, there was slight coverage of the Armenian Genocide centennial that happened on April 24.The Armenian Genocide was a centrally planned mass murder administered by the Turkish government against the entire Christian population of the Ottoman Empire. From 1915 to 1918, the Armenian people were subjected to torture, massacre, abduction, rape, expropriation, starvation and deportation. Yet the only way most people are even familiar with the atrocity is by following Kim Kardashian on Instagram and seeing her posts from her recent trip to the country.There is a lack of knowledge in society about the Armenian culture other than the people have dark features, nice eyebrows, extravagant parties, livers that can tolerate any amount of alcohol, everlasting family traditions and an overabundance of food.Since many are unaware that there is even a country named Armenia, it is a small country of approximately 3 million people located in Western Asia and is bordered by Turkey, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Iran. Armenia gained its independence from seven decades of Soviet rule in 1991 and is governed by a semi-presidential republic; the current president is Serzh Sargsyan and the Prime Minister is Hovik Abrahamyan.Post-Genocide, the Armenian people were dispersed in several different places throughout Europe, Russia, America and the Middle East, which is why the Armenian people are so diverse.A leading factor in Armenian culture is the heavy stress on the importance of family. As an Armenian, I was raised knowing that my family members would stand by me during both the good and the bad. I was also brought up with a sense of pride of being Armenian, since I live in an area where my family was the designated Armenian family, and having a deep connection to my roots and heritage.Alina Kazarian, 19, nutrition major at Glendale Community College, had a lot to say about her upbringing and the prominence of family and culture. “Like many Armenian families do, I lived with my direct family, my aunt and uncle, my cousins and my grandparents. I used to be ashamed of having so many people live in my house but as I grew older and say the families of my friends deteriorate, I stopped taking it for granted and started appreciating what I have.”She added, “Another thing that always made me giggle was how when I came home from school there was always a meal prepared for me. Always. We rarely ever ate out. If we did, something serious had happened to where my mom, aunt or grandma was unable to cook for us.”In the Greater Los Angeles area, Glendale is where most Armenians reside. There is a surplus of Armenian bakeries and restaurants, with owners who usually incorporate their personal family traditions into their products. There are shops designated to solely selling Armenian foods, spices, cloths, etc., and Armenian is a language that most people, even those of other ethnicities, are somewhat familiar with. At schools, Armenian is available to take as a language and all public schools recognize the Armenian Genocide as a holiday, so classes are not in session.Henry Sahakian, 26, biology major at the University of California, Los Angeles, said one of his favorite parts of being Armenian is the food and the get-togethers that circulate around food. “I grew up on watching my dad and men of the family barbeque vegetables, meats and potatoes on a charcoal grill then giving them to my mom to prepare and set the table with, while including the rice and appetizers her and the women made. It’s something that I know other cultures do, but being Armenian is different. Only other Armenians will understand.”Going with the stereotype of Armenians being heavy drinkers and starting at a young age, Sahakian added, “I started drinking at age 14 with the comfort of my family and I learned my limits with my favorite people surrounding me. All my friends always ask when I’m going to have another family party. Little do they know that it’s a normal Friday for me.”Being Armenian is something that has always been special to me. It’s been an integral part of my life and although it took a long time for me to understand why I had to miss going to the movies with my friends to go to a relatives house and why I had to be home hours before my friends, I will always be grateful to have been raised with such an importance on things that actually matter.Behind the lavish parties and exceptional food, the Armenian culture is one that is very tight knit and the people embrace their roots to the highest level possible. They are a group of people who believe in unity and treat each other like family, at all times.Drink a lot of coffee, write a lot of articles, really love Kanye  Harry Styles. Managing editor @ substance.media. Contact me at: College news without the Ink

A few weeks ago, I wrote to everyone working with me at Silverlabs about my thoughts on culture and passion and what kind of company we aspire to build and what defines success for us. This is so important to me, I’m sharing it here on Medium as well.First of all, I place culture as the topmost thing of importance for a company. I believe that the founders have to set what kind of a company we will be early on and have to strive to preserve that through the growth years to come. Before I dived into Silverlabs, I wrote about At Silverlabs, I want everyone who is with us today and will join us in future to feel the passion in what we do and do it for ourselves.So, what are the cardinal aspects of our culture in Silverlabs?And what defines success for Vue and Silverlabs? Building a company where cultural values uphold and doing our best to make our mark in the area of fashion and commerce. It is not one or the other — if we built a wildly popular product and messed up the culture, we didn’t succeed!I can’t wait for the rest of this journey — we’re just getting started!Disrupting fashion and commerce at the moment. In past life at Google and Qualcomm, I built stuff that you’ve likely experienced.

I have had the fortune of working for and with a variety of startups and medium to large businesses in the Midwest. Over the years there have been repeat patterns of how things are done and how culture is crafted at these companies. Here are some observations that I have gathered since then and some ideas on how you might do things differently.Do you still ask questions like “Wow, Im thrilled. Not only do templated interview questions and statements like those above open your door to job manipulators but the bullshit and lack of enthusiasm in your company can be smelled a mile away. The generational and cultural landscape of employees is greatly shifting and you think mediocre is going to get you “A-players” and “Rockstars”.On top of these forthcoming changes in what employees value and how they are motivated have you took the time to ask why you are assessing hires using Myers-Briggs or Strengths Finders? Some generations may not be familiar with personality tests while others know exactly how to game the system. Do not rely solely on automated assessments to speed up the hiring process. Youll end up getting a fish trying to climb up your company “tree”.Change up the environment where you conduct your usual interviews. Does everyone usually sit awkwardly across from each other in an oval shaped room with the familiar colors of blue, grey and beige complete with black chairs?Take the interviewee for a walk around the office and if it’s too small go outside for a short stroll. I am not saying ditch the old ways but try to inject some energy into the process after the initial sit-down with HR.Interviewing a millennial? Ask them questions about what motivates them and get them to think creatively and critically about your company’s business objectives and processes. You may learn something new and useful.Somewhere along the way you got super busy running your company to the point where you had to hire talented well fitted folks to help you grow the business. That’s a good thing. Here’s where reality sinks in.In the beginning stages of bringing on new people to the mix you gave them a big welcome, a fair compensation package and hopefully your message on what you do and why you do it resonated with them. As time goes on both new and seasoned employees become background objects no more special than the working parts of an intricate but well ran and oiled machine.Consider this scenario: as the machine hustles and bustles along you get messages from mid level management that John in IT is having performance issues and after numerous attempts to see some improvement the best option is to boot him off the island. Without taking the time to ask John or his direct supervisor for more details you approve a termination request from management. You also suggest that you will personally be there to interview the replacement to ensure it doesnt happen again.Yet again as time moves on you spend less energy getting to know your employees and give your management staff the go-ahead to automate the hiring and firing process. At some point you will be responding to the internal comments on your company’s high turnover rate and wonder what exactly went wrong.Catering to the professional and personal needs of every single staff member in your company can be unrealistic. Checking in with them from time to time directly through one-on-ones or company outings? I bet that’s more reasonable.Does it seem like an employee’s performance is consistent with incremental improvements but youre noticing bags under their eyes? Try catching a minute or two with the employee’s partner or spouse and ask them how they are liking the job. You may find that motivation and morale took a hit after countless overtime was put in to fix some critical bugs from the latest release.Instead of asking an employee how they are doing for the day try to adjust the question to include a specific task, feature or project they are working on — “Another favorite of mine is to observe environment and surroundings. Does an employee tend to have their earphones in for a majority of the day while they plug away on design work? Find out why — you may discover that Hans Zimmer’s epic soundtracks put them in the zone and it’s worth sharing that tidbit with others. You may also find that they simply dont enjoy communicating with coworkers unless they need to. You will never know unless you ask.Somewhere in that dense and useless company handbook you pass along to every new hire is your company’s vision statement and brass tax objective. Those set of lines are copied over onto your website, print materials and white paper.Employees are not drones and every single individual is there because they saw something in you and your company that either resonated with them, challenged them to be better professionally or personally, or they believe what youre doing is the coolest freakin’ thing in the world. Find out what that very reason is. You see who is in alignment with your company and why which is the driving force that pushes the business forward.As Ive said earlier if your company is the “You may find that one small change has had a great impact on what you have been making and how it’s being made. All the while your brand and culture keep trying to convince the world of the message and vision long forgotten while everyone has either moved on or is confused by what you are saying and doing.During the early stages of your business when you had say the first ten, twenty or thirty employees you might have had a few late night sessions of Counter Strike at the office.Years later you are taking manhours out of the day to try and rekindle the spark of this organically spawned event you had with the original crew. 200 employees later some of the staff bemoans the impending “frag session” you reinforce year after year. The example seems a bit extreme but you get the idea.Want to know of another company activity that businesses need to get rid of? Casual Fridays. There I said it. You can think of something a lot more exciting and positive than wearing blue jeans one day a week.Your employees have lives outside of the workplace and with those comes a set of hobbies, passions, play-time and brainstorming that’s happening outside of office hours.Try asking your staff where they like to go out for local brews and good food on the weekend. Maybe the marketing department has a humble meet-up of outdoor games and recreation on Wednesday afternoons to let some steam off. The point is that your employees are already doing fun stuff on their own.The first thing is to continue to let everyone have their fun outside of work. The second is that if employees are talking about it in the office it means they are up to the idea of letting other staff members join them. Be open and welcoming about extracurricular activities and see if your company can emulate the spirit of these activities on a voluntary basis.Something that will be very important to the millennials is to let individuals thrive and do so within reason. There’s no need to turn Fridays into show n tell sessions or throw away dress codes if your product or service is built in such a way. It seems a little “woo-woo” but by giving employees room to breathe and express themselves you may see new modes of creativity and thinking take place during meetings or think-tank sessions.What has probably frustrated me the most above all else is the classic management fallacy of being told when to do or not do something and then seeing a failure to comply with set guidelines.If you market your company culture in such a way employees can work in spaces other than their desk then encourage it instead of reprimanding those who bent the rules.If you glamour new hires with the promise of being able to see their families Monday through Friday yet continuously demand overtime to make up for poor management then keep your word or stop with the false promises.By now I think the point’s been made clear. Be transparent with who you work for, with and especially with those you lead. Don’t be an asshole.Hope you got something out of this. I have waited too long to vent out some of my frustrations from my professional life and it feels good to get it out of my system and share it with the world to read, glance over, evaluate, criticize or pass along.Experimenting with gamification and keeping a close eye on VR and AR.

We can get inspired; we can learn how to upgrade our skills — but if we are not in the right culture, or helping to create the right culture, we are missing out on our best work opportunities. Culture is an important component of any company; in fact, I would argue that it may be the most important component.Culture has nothing to do with whether or not your company has a pool table or what kind of music you play in your office (if you play music at all). We often point to those things as examples of culture, but really those are the by-products, the expression, of a company’s culture.To find out a company’s culture, you almost have to work backwards and figure it out deductively. What does a company’s posture about a particular thing say about them and what they value.As an example: at Rule29 you will rarely (if ever) encounter someone who says “We can’t do that.” Our posture is generally one of possibility and interest, even if a project seems insurmountable or completely foreign to use. We generally feel capable of figuring anything out and, if history serves to prove itself, are usually successful in doing so.If you take a look at this example, there are a few inferences that you can make: So what led us to seek those kinds of employees and work with those kinds of clients? I would argue that it’s because we at Rule29 implicitly value continual learning and growth. Our company’s culture is such that we like to constantly be figuring things out creatively and expanding beyond our best capabilities. Because of this value, we implicitly seek people and projects that will lead us more in that direction.You see, a company’s culture is much more than just the fun atmosphere that they have at their offices. Sure, there’s a fun atmosphere when you enter Rule29, but if you dig deeper you see the implicit values and desires that drive our creative, our employees, and our clients.In fact, I would argue that a company’s culture is actually simply that: the result of the conversation that is constantly occurring among our employees, our clients, and our creatives, based on a set of values that underlie it all. These three groups inform and influence each other every day and take place within a structure and leadership that allows them to function out of abundance, not deficit.The next few blog posts that will follow in the coming months are concerned with this conversation about culture. It’s definitely a buzzword that has infiltrated a wide range of industries, but my hope is that, by the end of the series, you will be able to recognize your company’s culture preferences, values, successes, weakness and future steps.Strategic Creative Firm Specializing in Branding, Social Media  Making Creative Matter® in Print, Packaging, Web, Enviro, Documentary  Motion. #DesignForGood

40 years ago today, DJ Kool Herc had an idea. To stretch out a brief passage of a disco song, he would take a short portion of it and “loop” it, over and over, making a “new” song that would keep the party dancing all night long. Not only did he invent hip hop, he invented a new form of culture: Remix Culture.Today, while a few people waste their time laboring away at “creative projects” that attempt to create culture from scratch (like we really need another symphony or novel!), the true heroes of culture are the remixers — the people with the ingenuity to take something like Star Wars and re-edit it — perhaps in such a way that it makes a music video for the latest Bruno Mars track! Fan-fiction, mash-ups, even the courageous act of reblogging a gif from “Parks and Rec” but with a different caption — this is where the culture is heading, and if you don’t like it, be careful — you just might find yourself cut out of a “fan edit” of your own life!Hopefully we someday live in a world where “original” creators are shunned for attempting to clutter the blogosphere with more content when there are still thousands of frames from “Game of Thrones” that haven’t been screen-grabbed, imported, and had their actors’ faces replaced with those of Nicholas Cage or Beyonce!Pop culture. Tech. Inspiration.

The animated GIF is the Internet’s native art form. But 25 years later, we still haven’t decided how to pronounce it.We’ve spilled so many words over the pronunciation of a single letter, rivaled only by the debate over tabs vs. spaces, email vs. e-mail, and whether to capitalize “Internet.”So, how do There are three main camps:For the “soft G” crowd, this issue was settled in 1987 when CompuServe engineer Steve Wilhite first designed the GIF format. He’s always been adamant about the pronunciation, as in There’s something to this argument.One of the great things about inventing something is that you get to name it, and by extension, how it’s pronounced. Honoring an inventor’s wishes may not be required, but it’s the nice thing to do.There’s only one problem: Steve Wilhite and CompuServe The creators of the GIF format didn’t anticipate this kind of usage for their format, and the proof is in the spec itself — they never specified a way to loop animations.When CompuServe added animation to the GIF89a spec in 1989, animations would only play once. For six years, every animated GIF ended on the final frame.It was Netscape, not CompuServe, that added the ability to repeat animations, starting with Navigator 2.0 beta 4 in December 1995. Netscape defined an extension to the GIF format that specified how many times an animation should loop or if it should play infinitely.Today, every animated GIF contains the “NETSCAPE2.0” string inside it, a digital thumbprint that firmly places the modern animated GIF as a Web-era invention.So, does this mean that Netscape should get to dictate how it’s pronounced? No, not really.Because when we talk about GIFs these days, we’re not The modern GIF was invented by the Internet, and like the Internet, its applications sprawl beyond comprehension. Early GIF isn’t just a file format, it’s an art form and a culture. And, despite Wilhite’s efforts, most of the people in that culture pronounce it with a “hard G.”Since I downloaded my first GIF off a BBS in the late 1980s, I’ve pronounced GIF with a hard “g” like “gift.” It looked natural to me, and like many others, it was an on-screen acronym that I didn’t hear out loud until years later. I stuck with that pronunciation for years, even after I knew the “official” pronunciation.But I’m not entirely comfortable disregarding the wishes of Steve Wilhite To honor Wilhite’s pioneering work, I pronounce every static or non-looping GIF with a soft-G. Every discussion of the file format, transparency, interlacing, and static GIFs are “jifs.” But the animated GIF, as we know it, was created by Netscape and popularized by the Internet, so I pronounce it with a hard-G.There! That oughta settle it, once and for all.I make web stuff. A Pandaemonium Revolver Collection. Season 2 stars 

GigaOm’s The startup community has matured. “You’re going to have the smartest people in the world working as hard as they can, competing at every corner of the industry,” Williams said. So stay focused on your core mission and go deep.Malik spoke to one of the major pain points of the internet — there’s simply too much information out there and not enough context. Twitter’s main API, for example, is called “The Firehose” — and it’s exactly that, a stream of new content with very little context and parsing.But over the last few years, the shift has been towards the creator. For Instagram, it’s not about consumption, but about Design’s role in startups has long been misunderstood. Zooming out even further, Systrom questioned the very role of design in a startup, asking if designers were even necessary in every company? “No,” he answered, referencing commodity businesses where simply shipping a product at a low cost might be all you need. “But,” he added, “if you decide that user experience is core to your company and if you believe that it can push the way forward, everything from the slides you put up at board meetings to the way you interview people matters.”AirBnb baked design in from day one — taking the time to design the entire user experience from the maps to the review forms. If yesterday’s Roadmap conference is any indication of where the worlds most talented entrepreneurs are betting, it’s on designs role as an essential element within the startup to create positive impact in the world. More design-savvy companies means more holistic, richer products. More high-quality content means a higher bar for the internet as a whole. And more understanding around the role of design in a startup means that design is no longer something you slap on at the end, but rather, as Williams said, “a part of everything that you do.”elleluna.comLearnings. Musings. Stories.

I watched the VMAs last weekend for reasons that are still unclear to me, and I’ll admit to spending most of the time frantically Googling the names of people on the screen. I learned far more about YouTube and Vine stars than I ever wanted to, as well hearing a bunch of pop songs that I somehow managed to miss this summer. Then I spent some time thinking about the 1995 VMAs, and how many of the celebrities there were mainstream famous actors and musicians that even my parents would recognize. I’m pretty sure if I mentioned Vine to my parents, they would probably think it had something to do with gardening.So, fine, I’m officially old and all the stuff the kids like baffles me. But lost in all the discussions about this is the following: we have more ways to share content now than ever before, and that means more people have opportunities to share content than ever before. I’ll keep beating this drum until my arms fall off: this is, on balance, a good thing. It might be bad for a select number of people, but it’s great for many, many more.Take TV, for example. One of the best shows of the summer is There’s more good TV now than ever, and I can understand why some people are burned out. My Netflix queue is always a mile long, and I’m constantly getting recommendations on what to watch next. But again, this is a much better position to be in than having nothing to watch at all. It also means that more stories get told than ever before, and this includes stories about women, people of color, LGBTQ people, and people from all around the world.The DIY aspect of all of this means that people don’t have to jump through hoops to build their fame. A reader of my last piece was critical of the fact that I said all you need is a laptop and an idea to make it big, and I’ll amend that slightly — you also need to know how to market yourself and have a personality. But then all you need is a laptop and smartphone and social media. Are crazy parkour Vines my thing, personally? No. Are they someone’s thing? Sure, and I’m glad they exist for that audience.In music, we’ve been hearing this complaint since the dawn of Napster and bedroom recording applications. The complaints go something like this: now anyone can make music, and we don’t have rock critics and record store clerks to tell us what’s good, so the world is ending. Now conjure up images of record label presidents, rock critics, and record store clerks, and think about why many of those people tend to look the same. Yeah, there’s plenty of terrible music out there now — but there’s also a lot of good music that would have never been heard. You have to sift, but so what; the odds of hearing a fresh voice are a lot higher now, too.There’s also an undertone of “I’m not getting the attention I deserve” in many of these complaints. No one deserves attention, just like no one deserves fans. If someone from another culture can do something better than you can, well, them’s the breaks in the new economy. No one has the absolute right to live in the world that suits them the best, especially at the expense of others.At the end of the Two, you’re never going to get to the end of Netflix or Spotify. And again, that’s fine. There’s no next level you advance to after watching every prestige drama or listening to every album that Startup consultant and writer. Cohost of An ear for the new, a heart for the classics.

The last place you’d think to see teenagers practicing their kick flips is in Addis Ababa, the frenetic capital city of Ethiopia, where Despite challenges, the sport is slowly gaining traction there. Local kids improvise with the spaces available, turning empty fountains and deserted monuments into their own personal skateparks.An abandoned parking lot on Sarbet Circle near the old airport is a popular spot. The community there started with 25 kids and 7 boards and has grown into a grassroots movement called “The striking difference between their young age and professional attitude was awe inspiring,” Daniel says. “After school they hit the streets with their skateboards as hard as possible to fulfill their shared dreams of becoming pro skaters. Alongside these dreams lie ambitions to study as engineers, photographers, and, in the case of one boy in particular, to become the owner of a skatepark network across all of Ethiopia.”Skateboarding first appeared in Ethiopia a decade ago, but the country still lacks the infrastructure to encourage its development. And with no skate shops to speak of, it’s nearly impossible to buy boards and other necessary gear.On his first trip to Ethiopia, Daniel brought as many skateboards, t-shirts, and hoodies as he could carry and distributed them to the boys. Now, as an official Ethiopia Skate One thing is certain, skateboarding in Ethiopia is there to stay. “I believe the community is growing,” says co-founder Addisu Hailemichael. “We’re meeting a lot of new people, making friends, having fun. That’s what it’s all about. It’s the closest thing I have to flying.”Interested in contributing to the cause? Become a backer of Daniel Reiter’s editor in chief at william  park. chinatown sweetheart. collector of cute things.where creativity and ambition intersect

A little later, on London’s buses, I’m swiping again, Oyster cards replacing cumbersome cash. I might be briefly nostalgic for the jangling of loose change in my pocket, but, ultimately, I’m grateful for the greater ease with which I can make my way. In the future, many of London’s tube stations will be automated too: Giant checkouts that shoot us from place to place.This checkout culture, a world where we no longer have to queue for things, seems conclusively the way of the future.This immediacy has spread everywhere. We can see it as we shuffle restlessly through the music on our smartphones, or the options on our Netflix subscription; and, increasingly, we can see it in our love lives. In the world of dating, human beings have never been easier to embrace or dismiss. Witness the ease with which potential love (or, let’s be realistic, lust) interests can be swatted aside on Tinder, or any of the other sites who have emulated its format; with a flick to one side you can let them into your life, and with the other you can send them into oblivion. It’s caffeinated romance: speed dating has become amphetamine dating.Swipe culture was meant to provide us with the fastest and surest route to what we wanted, but instead it presents us so swiftly with such a bewildering number of options that we’re no longer truly sure what we want anymore. What was supposed to be a short, simple journey from A to B now sometimes feels like a trip from A to Infinity. And, therefore, while it’s brought us an unparalleled choice of destinations, it has also given us a growing and often daunting challenge — working out, every now and then, just where we should actually stop.Poet, sportswriter; author, musician; journalist, broadcaster, communications adviser. BBC, The FT, MSN, ESPN on #MUFC, The Blizzard, The Independent and more.The story you’ve been missing.

I’m surprised when my friends tell me they know nothing about the culture of a company they are about to join. ‘It pays well, and I like my job title. That’s all that matters.’ ​Does it, really? These are important factors, for sure, but if you can’t be happy where you work, you won’t stick around for long.Happiness is subjective, of course. What makes me happy, may not matter to you. I feel happy when I am doing the kind of work that satisfies my creative needs, in a workplace where I can see myself learning and growing as a person and in my career. ​This is greatly influenced by the company’s culture.How can you determine what a company’s work culture is before taking the plunge and accepting the job offer?Here are a few cues to look for​​ during your in-office interview so you know what you might be getting yourself into:1. What this means: There are rules in this office, and they must be followed. If you’re someone who is at his or her productive best when in a structured environment, this place might be a good fit for you.What this means: This company encourages employees to have a distinct voice and personality. If you’re someone who thrives in a more free setup, you should hope for a second interview at this place.2. 3. There are so many blogs and books out there that talk about the importance of body language at an interview. Unfortunately, they are all directed at the interviewee. And so if you observe your interviewer carefully, there’s so much you can learn about your future in that company. ​She might be saying, ‘I give a lot of freedom to my team,’ but everything about her could indicate the contrary. Watch her posture — is she uptight or at ease?If her posture is uptight, it may mean, your potential boss has her way to get the job done. If tough-love is what you need then you’ve found your match.4. When someone looks only at the CV during an interview, it tells me the company cares for only skills and not me as an individual. They don’t want to know my story, who I am, where I’m from. They are not looking to hire a person, they’re looking for just about anyone who can get the job done.5. Unhappy employees make an unhappy workplace. As an outsider, this is surprisingly easy to gauge. It’s true the other way round as well. When someone is in love, it shows. You don’t even have to ask. They blush, they talk incessantly, they glow at the mention of their ​company’s name.I’ve met people who love their jobs and the companies they work for. It is rare, but when it has been a long-lasting affair, you know it is true love. When employees have worked in the same place for a considerable amount of time (product managers and architects have been with Zoho an average of 10 years), you know the company is doing something right. If your manager-to-be talks about her company’s great work culture without you having to ask, take note. ​And if she sighs deeply before the interview begins, take note of that too. ​Just remember, no one can fake happiness. Not for long, at least.

What follows are condensed notes on almost 20 years of working in tech. In that time I’ve worked with people and teams of different sizes, on different journeys, led by people with different leadership styles. I’ve seen some good, I’ve seen some bad. I’ve seen (and made) mistakes.Based on these personal experiences, I’ve come to understand how fundamental the right combination of people, and how they work together, is to a company’s success.Company culture exists without anyone even having to try, whether you like it or not. When you throw people together to work on a problem, a culture is going to present itself. It’s an organic thing that takes on a life of its own. It is therefore affected by everyone you add, and take away.Company culture is unique and specific to each company. Establishing and maintaining a “positive” one is hard, but worth the effort.It is the responsibility of everyone to contribute to the kind of culture they want to be a part of. But, it is the responsibility of the company leadership to support and nurture that process over time.The CEO’s most important job is to ensure the company maintains a positive culture, since every single aspect of how the company operates is touched by it.It is not free lunches and snacks. It is not ping pong tables. It’s not bean bags. It is not kegerators. It is not branded t-shirts or hoodies. It is not artisanal coffee.Don’t get me wrong. These things are nice. If they are a feature of your working environment, that is a But please don’t mistake these trappings for culture.Openness. Trust. Respect. Collaboration. Empowerment. Responsibility. Communication. Diversity. Empathy. Spirit. Emotional Investment. Pride in work. Commitment to each other. Openness to criticism. And a lot more besides…These are the kind of things that embody a positive company culture. One where people feel happy and productive in their work. Where the customer is both the end user of the product and the net beneficiary of the positive culture.The opposite of everything above ☺Any combination of these opposites will, over time, lead to a negative, toxic work environment and culture. People will be unhappy, unproductive, dissatisfied with their job, and maybe even their life. No one will want to work at the company. The product suffers, the customer’s become unhappy. Growth stalls, then falls.Not a good outcome.If you are in a leadership role, then understanding that this is the most important part of your job is the first step. However, since every single employee has the power to directly affect a company’s culture (for better or worse) everyone has a role to play.Positive company cultures are created and maintained by working hard and being committed to each other. By establishing, as a team, what values the group wants to be defined by. By understanding what principles will guide each interpersonal interaction. By defining the principles by which customers are treated. By committing to the tenet’s by which the product is built, sold and supported.The whole company needs to collaborate in a meaningful way on what these values and principles are. All new team members need to be educated on the company values and principles, and real buy-­in is required to ensure the sustainability and constant improvement of culture.This might sound like how a cult, or maybe a religion is formed. But if members of the team are not fanatical about how the product is built, sold and supported, then what is the point of the company even existing?Finally, cultural change doesn’t happen over night. You can’t simply email a group of people and say “Hey! Everybody! More culture, please!” It can be a long, challenging journey, but one made easier by having everyone on board.Dubliner, Founder, Advisor, Angel. Investor in 

No one gave me a recipe for how to create company culture. I have been lucky to piece together the wisdom of many who have gone before me. I save the accumulated genius of what I have learned from them, in distilled form, for the end.Most of the time when you need something at a company, you make it. If you want to sell a product, you create it. If you need a head of marketing, you hire one. If you want to create a great company culture, what do you do?The lack of a clear answer on this is why I believe most companies don’t have a great culture. They want culture to matter so they say it does—but wanting culture to be great doesn’t mean it will be. The reason: it’s not obvious how to make great culture. It can feel as if—instead—it is revealed to you, and what is revealed at best can be articulated. It’s not unlike a religious experience in that regard.Culture is an output of a bunch of inputs that have to come together the right way. Specifically it is the collision of people and their context, how they interact with each other in that context, and then how that context evolves based on those interactions as they multiply. By the time you observe culture is bad—or more often (and just as pernicious) only okay—it’s a complex thing you’re dealing with, like a mole with 29 ingredients that tastes funny but you don’t know why.This is hard to say because it sounds mean: the people you fire are more important to your culture than the people you hire. It’s a half-truth, as you have to hire people who are an outstanding, but it’s an important half-truth because the best way to protect the environment is to recognize where you have erred and course correct. You reveal that culture as a by-product of who stays and who goes, and to effectively “experiment” your way into what your culture is by learning who fits and who doesn’t—and by learning what precisely it is they are fitting into. To do this requires courage and confrontation. You muster both of these by telling yourself it’s what you must do to make the company “safe” for your best people, who should—by the way—be the only people.It is like a sculpture revealed by what you chip away. Unlike a block of stone, though, you can add and chip iteratively, which means you don’t necessarily have to be Michaelangelo. Most companies know they have to be superb at the adding. What is less talked about is how important it is to become excellent at the chipping.As an organization you want to get really good at sending people off the pitch. As Jeff Weiner You may even (rightfully) come to view a firing as your own atonement for getting the hiring decision wrong. Or maybe that the hire was right three years ago, but isn’t anymore. You can’t keep someone around out of loyalty; your loyalty is to the mission, not to any particular person pursuing that mission. It doesn’t matter how vital they have been historically, it is only your judgment of how important they are going forward that counts. This is a sports team, not a family.A company that can’t fire people well is like a forest that never has a fire. It becomes overgrown, full of weeds, and it fails. A company that fails to fire people based on culture is simply a company that is never going to have a great culture.When hiring it is tempting to employ someone who has done it before. You actually don’t want that person. You want someone who is about to do it. After all, if they’ve done it before, why would they do it again? Either they’re not ambitious, not growth-oriented, or weren’t that good in their previous role. No matter which it is, you don’t want em.Don’t get me wrong, experience is critical: it must show judgment, endurance, and growth. But experience is typically thought of as the main hiring criteria, and this is the problem. It is the My belief is there are two things which should be elevated to equal importance by being thought of as more so: fit and passion.During a scary moment of meaningful turnover during Bonobos’ early days, we articulated what we viewed to be the five core human values of the best people we had ever hired. I made the list by grouping the thirty people we had hired up to that point into three buckets: the ten best, the next ten, and the ten who hadn’t worked out. I asked myself what really separated the top ten from the bottom ten in terms of their humanity. I wrote down five traits which I thought they embodied, and then I got really nerdy in creating a rating scale for each of them.These traits became what we at How can you get empirical about something as soft as culture? My belief is the more subjective something may is, the more it demands a framework, however imperfect, to be made more discussable. Like Rotten Tomatoes and Zagat.The bad news? It’s hard to find people who meet all of your criteria. The good news? There are a lot of people in the world, and the difference between being willing to do the hard work of finding them and not doing so is the distance between mediocrity and greatness.To gauge passion for the mission, you need to actually know what the mission is. Most founders I talk to can’t articulate what their organization’s mission is—I know, as I was one of them. When we finally articulated ours, it enabled us to hire the right technology leader for the first time in six years after multiple tries. We’re now building the best software engineering team in the history of branded apparel retail because we finally did the hard work of finding a technology leader who loves technology The best way to test for passion for the mission is watch who values title and cash over equity. People who really love your company will want more stock than salary, and they won’t care much about title. A wise man once told me: watch intently what people negotiate for, for it reveals more about their intentions than their words do. Someone I know calls it the “start-up hiring intelligence test”: you make two offers, $Y cash and X stock options, or 0.8$Y and 2X stock options. If they take the first offer, you pull it.Spend enough time recruiting someone, and eventually the dynamics of the hiring will foretell what it will be like to work with them. Be particularly careful of people whose actions and words are not congruent in the process—for example they want to join your company because they are ready for a start-up, but are also interviewing at larger enterprises. Why? I have learned to listen to what people do, not what they say. For this reason I believe interviews can obscure reality as much as provide insight into it, that the purpose of an interview is to generate questions more so than answers, and that off-list references are the holy grail way to get to the answer and the truth. Not only are off-list references fun because you get to play private investigator for two weeks, you won’t believe what you will find out about the people who you don’t end up hiring.At the end of the process, I try to talk someone out of coming, and to make sure its their passion over our salesmanship that is winning the day. I tell them all the reasons not to join, and all the harsh realities of marriage around the corner once the romance ends. For all my talk of culture, Bonobos Inc. is still a hard place to work with a lot to be desired. If I can’t talk em out of it, they’re in. If they don’t join, I don’t sweat it. If they had fire in their soul for what we are doing, if this had been right for them, they would have come.Sometimes on the question the decision Now we’re done, right? Wrong. We’ve got fish, but no water. The other part of culture is the context in which people operate, which is influenced by myriad things: goals, feedback, promotions, compensation, physical space, how people organize outside of work, social norms, how people talk, whether debate is promoted or squelched, how conflict happens, how hard people work, what’s celebrated and what’s left unsaid. Any of these are an essay in themselves, so here’s my belief on the most important things to consider.There are two basic ways to motivate people: fear and joy. I think the former is easier in the short term, and the latter is harder but more sustainable for the long term.I once thought that holding up a high bar for our team and withholding praise was a way to get the best out of people. I was wrong. From We’ve made company-wide recognition a core part of every team meeting, and honor stars across both core virtues (e.g. self-awareness) and core values (e.g. make fit happen). More important than periodic public recognition is the day-to-day practice: the back-channel conversations, the hand-written notes, the email one-liners. It is paramount to be specific about what people have done well, as you get what you praise. Recognizing others actually makes You have to develop a well of goodwill to be able to criticize someone. They need to feel they are in safe place to be able to see the “ugly truths” with you, to hear your feedback. With enough honey in the jar, the real work begins which is being candid with people about where they need to get better. It is a paradox then, that the most critical of leaders are enabled by also being the most positive.The balance sheets of most clothing companies are structured to assume that their owners are geniuses, that their leaders are the only other ones who deserve equity, and that everyone else is a peon. This can’t be true. At Bonobos Inc. we are structured more like a Silicon Valley technology company than a clothing company, and I believe this is a source of competitive and cultural advantage for the long-term. The best way to have a child behave like an adult is for them, over time, to become one. If you want an employee to act like an owner, why not simply make them one?Someone once told me that people require three things to be happy: autonomy, mastery, and purpose. Someone else once told me that the best compensation framework, in ascending order of importance, is cash, equity, and decision-making.I synthesize thusly: you slowly give your company away to the people who are in it, sharing more ownership and giving away more and more decisions until you are presiding over something which could survive your own departure. A good leader builds a company which requires them, a great leader builds a company which eventually will not. Mark Leslie puts it this way:In an amazing presentation on leadership that Mark gives, he quotes Lao-Tzu:The issue is nuanced. You don’t wan to fully check out, as Ben Horowitz Ben is right: you will remain visionary on the product, carrier of the culture, and protector of the mission for as long as you are CEO. Nevertheless, the arc is foretold—if you want to build a great culture, you will come to live the magical axiom: the more power you give away, the more you have.We once opened a California office for our NYC-based company. That was a mistake. By creating a second office at this early stage in our company’s history, people couldn’t see who they were working with, and they certainly couldn’t trust them. We ended up with two cultures, a costly travel budget, and a HipChat account that while active was woefully shy of the in-person collaboration required between groups to build a high-performing company.For all the benefits of jet travel and Skype, trust and tribalism are still powerful forces of human nature which create in-groups and out-groups in no time. In 2011 Crain’s named us one of the top places to work in NYC. We fell off in 2012 the year we had a California office. After closing it in early 2013 we came back on. This might all be a coincidence, but I doubt it.Even if you are not dumb enough to open a second office in the early years, one of the hardest things to contend with as your company scales is the development of in-groups and out-groups. You will find it a true labor of love to find the right mixture of federal vs. state culture. As Nassim Taleb The analogy here is imperfect, but the moral is this: you want to invent ways to keep your company small as you scale. This is something pertinent to us at Bonobos Inc. as we cross over 200 employees and sail by the (somewhat over-hyped but there is something to it) While we talk about how much the world is changing in the digital age, it’s worth observing some ways in which it is not. Unlocking the good of tribalism while taming its bad is a riddle written by a cruel god, and it is not only humanity’s greatest challenge on a macro-level (we killed 200 million of our own in the 20th century), it will be the biggest threat to your culture as you scale.There is a saying:I disagree. It might make you stronger. It might also make you weaker.Similarly I think the idea that you learn as much by losing as you do from winning is dangerous. Who do you think has more insightful learnings about the game of baseball over the past fifteen years — the Chicago Cubs, or the Boston Red Sox? I’ve been a Cubs fan for thirty-five years, my dad has for nearly seventy years, and we can tell you you have nothing to learn from us. That’s why we just hired a new boss. From Boston. C’mon Theo.In 2011, our site When it comes to culture, your work is never done. Today’s success sows the seeds of tomorrow’s demise.“Remember when this was such a fun place to work?”We’re a gallant species, and we don’t like being subordinate to anyone. Hence the conventional wisdom that most people don’t like their jobs and hate their boss.For this reason I say creating a company that is loved by its employees is the most elegant challenge in business. You could also argue it’s the most important challenge in business for two reasons—one logical and one moral.The logical reason: if your employees love the company, your customers will as well—because no one really loves their job if customers don’t love the product. This means if you get culture right, everything else will take care of itself. Employees who love the company beget customers who love the company which begets shareholders who love the company. Yet we usually talk of employees third.The moral reason: your shareholders think about the company intensively for maybe once a month. Your customer interacts with your product, and this is if it’s a great product, maybe every day for an hour. Your team is immersed an order of magnitude beyond that.It’s therefore worth asking yourself: is building great culture And—if that’s the case—then why does the literature and conversation around it typically amount to platitudes about perks?1 part remembering this is the most elegant challenge in leadership1 teaspoon of relaxation in knowing it is an iterative process1 meaningful dollop of courage to fire people with grace and dignity1 crystal clear realization that fit and passion trump experience in hiring1 amazing mentor who reminds you to lead not from fear but from joy1 jar of honey1 board willing to share ownership1 leader willing to gift the company to the people who are in it1 World Series for the Cubs please god at some pointI am 

A few weeks ago, Elmo Keep wrote a fantastic piece on In The problem is that we all Conventionally, it’s been suggested that there are only two real solutions to the piracy problem: either we accept the Free Economy, or we use the legal system to crack down on piracy (The core issue with our creative economy is that, in general, it still operates on a model in which a creative good is first created and Seriously, it bears repeating: we need to create stuff only Even if you’re a relatively unknown creator, I suspect there are ways to make the ‘create after payment’ system work in your favour. Write half your book, sell it – accepting that some people may pirate it – and then hold the rest for ransom. (I suspect there are ways to do this gracefully.) If you’re a musician, make people pay for your album All this said, I believe we have created a system (the web, combined with a creative economy in which works are created before they’re sold) that promotes piracy of cultural work. That’s bad, but it means we can probably create a — 

I’ve spent this year working with corporations and government agencies that are adopting and adapting One of the interesting innovation challenges I’ve encountered centers on a company’s culture. While startups have the luxury of building values and culture from scratch, existing companies that want to (re)start corporate innovation must reboot an existing –and at times deeply rooted- corporate culture. It’s not an easy task, but failing to change the culture will doom any innovation efforts the company attempts.All too often a corporate innovation initiative starts and ends with a board meeting mandate to the CEO followed by a series of memos to the staff, with lots of posters, and one-day workshops. This typically creates “innovation theater” but very little innovation.Two McKinsey consultants, Terry Deal and Arthur Kennedy wrote a book called By the time I joined, the company already had a store of “beating the impossible odds” and “innovation on your feet” stories. It was already lore that the founders had pivoted from simply building an entire computer that fit on a single-circuit board with a newfangled Intel microprocessor to selling complete Each subsequent deal with a major computer customer was celebrated (deals were worth ten of millions of dollars) and our salespeople were feted as heroes. When any special custom engineering effort was required to match the over-the-top sales commitments (almost every deal), the engineers were treated as heroes as well. And when marketing went out to the field on Finally, there were rituals and celebrations that accompanied each big order. Bells and gongs would ring. The CEO would hand out $100 bills, and gave out a $25,000 on-the-spot bonus that was talked about for years. Once he even spray-painted an exhortation to ship a new product on time on our main hallway wall (so crude I can’t even paraphrase it, but still remembered 30 years later).While my title, business card and job description described my job functions, these unwritten values, stories, heroes and rituals guided the behavior that was expected of me in my job.I’ve learned more about a company’s corporate beliefs, heroes and rituals by sitting in on a few casual coffee breaks and lunches than reading all of its corporate mission statements or inspirational posters in the cafeteria. In These core values and beliefs and the attendant stories, heroes and rituals, also define To create an innovation culture a company needs heroes and stories about employees who created new business models, new products and new customers. Stories about new product lines created out of a crazy idea. Or heroes like an old-guard manager who kept sending the best teams to the corporate incubator; or division general managers who adapted and adopted an acquired product and built it into a successful product line, or engineering teams who got out of the building, saw a customer need and built a product to serve it — and ended up with a new division. And the rituals and rewards need to support this type of innovation (not just existing execution).Culture change almost always runs into problems — resistance to change (we’ve always done in this way), obsolescence (the world changed but not our values), inconsistency (we give lip service to our values, but don’t really implement them). But the combination of hacking the culture and reinforcing it by changing the incentives can make it happen.The result of an innovation culture is a large company with a unified purpose that can move with speed, agility and passion.Customer Development  Secret History, Teaching at Stanford, Berkeley and ColumbiaHandpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

I love hackathons. That’s why for 7 years I organized nearly 40 hackathons at Facebook. At first, I simply did it because I loved the energy of all the people and the freedom to explore ideas outside the scope of my day job. Over time though, those hackathons transformed from small 20 person extracurricular events to a major part of the Facebook culture. Scaling our hackathons to keep up with Facebook’s growth was tough, we constantly had to think through and experiment with the format to make sure that they kept up with the company. At the same time, it was through trying to capture, reinforce, and amplify the very magic that made those original hackathons so special that I came to realize that the hackathons themselves were strengthening and protecting our culture as we grew.Most ideas die in the early stages because the person/people that hatch the idea become discouraged when they realize the enormous number of steps necessary to actually make their idea a reality. It makes sense right? A great idea unbound by strict time constraints often becomes something we can “table for later.” Of course, as we all know, later seldom actually comes. That’s the beauty and driving force behind a hackathon–That simple mental check is incredibly powerful because it forces you to make hard tradeoffs and often times encourages you to get really creative with how to make things work. Before kicking off the hackathon I always set up a wiki page or shared doc with a place for people to put up their ideas and list the kinds of skills their team is looking for, these are things like: backend engineer, mobile engineer, product designer, etc. Next, the hackathon kickoff email always has a link to that doc so that people can post their ideas. An ancillary benefit is that people who don’t have an idea of their own can still reach out and join project teams and hack on ideas that interest them. The act of forming small teams and quickly jamming on ideas, designing things together, and working through problems in real time is like jazz, it encourages improvisation and riffing. This frenetic rhythm enables teams to be greater than the sum of their parts and carries over into all other aspects of how they work together. When you walk around a hackathon you’ll feel it, and it is a beautiful thing.Organic self organization results in people from across the company meeting new people and building connections that they wouldn’t otherwise make. As these cross-functional teams work together, people get to know one another and build friendships as well as develop a greater understanding of what different teams and job functions do across the company. In my experience, it’s this exposure that builds the social bonds that engender trust, empathy, and create alternate paths of information sharing that makes companies faster and more agile at getting things done. Teams that don’t know each other personally don’t work together as effectively as teams that do. Before a hackathon, a frontend engineer might think “Ugh, trying to coordinate with sysops on this project is going to be a pain.” After a hackathon that same engineer is more likely to think “I’m going to reach out to Rachel and see how we can get this done quickly.” Building trust during the good times will help your company better handle the bad times because people will feel a connection to their coworkers and they will lean on those relationships.For people to take risks they have to be willing to fail. Hackathons are failure incubators and failure accelerators. Too often in life, arguments get won by the loudest person or the one most willing to dig their heels in. Fortunately, in a company of builders, nothing beats code. Hackathons turn great ideas into reality by executing on the Not every idea has to — or even should — be focused on big changes. In fact, being too focused on high-impact change all the time can blind you to the obvious ideas right under your nose. Creating spaces for people to play with ideas and have fun together wakes up that curious part of our brain that was most active when we were children.I’m at Uber now and we’ve had 2 “official” hackathons, hundreds of informal hackathons and a number of At Facebook we hacked to connect the world, at Uber we’re hacking to move it. I hope you’ll join us for the ride.Engineering director of growth 

After 5 years, the time has come. This is my last week as Etsy’s CTO.Five years ago I joined a tiny site, with a struggling software product. I wasn’t sure how long I’d stay. I was coming off 5 intense years helping scale Flickr. But I had some theories about engineering I wanted to test, and Etsy had a nascent team with some great folks who were up for the challenge, though a number of the odds were stacked against us.Most of our tools, our mental models, and our practices are remnants of an era (possibly fictional) where software was written by solo practitioners, but modern software is a team sport.Great technology is the product of a great culture. Culture gives us the ability to act in a loosely coupled way; it allows us to pursue a diversity of tactics. Uncertainty is the mind-killer and culture creates certainty in the face of the yawning shapeless void of possible solutions that is software engineering.Culture is what you do, not what you say. It starts at the top. It affects everything. You have a choice about the culture you promote, not about the culture you have.If you aren’t shipping, you aren’t learning. If it slows down shipping, it probably isn’t worth it. Maturity is knowing when to make the trade off and when not to.I had some experience with this at Flickr, and I wanted to see how far you could scale it. My private bet was that we’d make it to 50 engineers before things broke down.Your improvement, over time, as a team, with shared tools, practices and beliefs is more important than individual pockets of brilliance. And more satisfying.Invest in your people and your ability to ask questions, not your current answers. Your current answers are wrong, or they will be soon.Five years ago, continuous deployment was still a heretical idea. The idea you could do it with over 250 engineers was, to me at least, literally unimaginable.Five years ago, it was crazy to discuss that monitoring, testing, debugging, QA, staged releases, game days, user research, and prototypes are all tools with the same goal, improving confidence, rather than separate disciplines handled by distinct teams.Five years ago, focusing on detection and response vs prevention in order to achieve better, more reliable, more scalable, and more secure software was unprofessional.Five years ago, suggesting that better software is written by a diverse team of kind people who care about each other was antithetical to our self-image as an industry.Five years ago, trusting not only our designers and product managers to code and deploy to production, but trusting everyone in the company to deploy to production, trusting engineers to meet customers, and trusting teams on the edges to use data to make their own decisions went against everything we’d been taught about how we were supposed run a software development company.Five years ago, rooms of people excitedly talking about their own contribution to a serious outage would have been a prelude to mass firings, rather than a path to profound learning.And five years ago no one was experimenting in public about how to do this stuff, sharing their findings, and open sourcing code to support this way of working.Five years ago, it would have seemed ludicrous to think a small team supporting a small site selling crafts could aspire to change how software is built and, in the process, cause us to rethink how the economy works.These last 5 years testing the theories, making discoveries, growing a team who has changed how software is built, supporting the flowering of a tech scene here in New York — I’m incredibly proud and grateful to have been a part of it. And I’m proud to have been part of growing Etsy from a tiny, not-always-online website to a billion dollar public company that challenges conventional notions of whether you can be led by values, other than selfishness, and be a successful business at the same time.The goal was always to build a culture — a culture of learning, a culture of generosity, a culture of values. Culture infects everyone. Successfully building a culture ensures when you leave you can hand your work off to people you trust and they will run the thing without you and make it better than you could have imagined.And building a thing that can be handed off means … you eventually hand it off.I took a sabbatical this summer. It was awesome. Burn out is a real and pressing phenomenon in our industry and I was certainly feeling its effects. I spent the summer doing things I enjoy: spending time with family, traveling, meeting new people, talking to smart folks about the future, and writing code. By the end of sabbatical, I felt better. I felt stronger and more present.So I’m handing it off. To my team, you’re all awesome, I love you and I’ll miss you.And now it’s time for me to find something new.technological solutions for social problems. CTO, Etsy. (if you follow me, consider introducing yourself with 

