When I was thirteen, I watched a season of Battle Bots on Comedy Central then attempted to build a killer robot in my parent’s basement. You might think, oh, you were probably a weird kid (and you’d be right) but I think eventually this is behavior that will become normal for people all around the world. It’s had some moments in the spotlight but a bunch of factors make it seem like robotic sports is destined for primetime ESPN in the next 5 years.A new class of bot (FPV Quadcopter) has emerged in the past few years and the footage they produce is nuts. You can make an argument that the *thrill* of these moments is lightened if a person isn’t risking their own life and limb and this is true to a certain extent. Just look at the rise of e-sports. This League of Legends team sits in an air conditioned bubble and sips Red Bull while a sold out arena screams their lungs out. They’re not in any physical danger but 31 million fans are watching online.When I was a kid, I was limited to things available at the local Radio Shack or hardware store. Now I can go to Amazon, find parts with amazing reviews and have them delivered to my house in a day. The hobby community has had many years to develop its technology and increase quality. Brands like Fat Shark, Spektrum, and adafruit have lead the way.If you’re good at building a robot, chances are you have a knack for engineering, math, physics, and a litany of other skills top colleges drool over. This is exciting for anyone (at any age) but it’s especially relevant for students and parents deciding what is worth their investment.There are already some schools that offer scholarships for e-sports. I wouldn’t be surprised if intercollegiate leagues were some of the first to pop up with traction.This one is a little fucked but its worth acknowledging. Drones (of all sizes) are the primary technology changing the battlefield today. DARPA has an overwhelming interest to stay current and they’re already sponsoring multimillion dollar (more academic) robotics competitions. It’s up to the community to figure out how (or how not) to involve them. Them, meaning the giant military apparatus of the United States but also military organizations around the world who want to develop and recruit the people who will power their 21st century defense (and offense).There is a reason that Rolex sponsors Le Mans. A relatively small number of people attend the race but it’s an elite mix of engineers and manufactures. Many of the people who became multimillionaires in the past 20 years got it from The Internet or some relation to the tech industry. They want to spend their money on what amuses them/their friends and robotics is a natural extension. Mark Zuckerberg recently gave one of the top drone racers in the world (Chapu) a shoutout on Facebook.This past week I went to a The most exciting aspect of this field is that we don’t know which robotic sport will ultimately drive the most attention  amusement. Battle Bots was the first one to get a legitimate shot at primetime on cable (and now on ABC) but it’s one of many. FPV Drone racing is incredibly popular at the moment and its easy to imagine that crazy ways it will develop. Then you have crazy things out of left field hitting the internet like Football has a diehard fan base, deeply ingrained tradition, and looks incredible on giant 4k televisions. Right now, robotic sports mostly just looks cool when you watch the YouTube videos on your laptop. But the community and money is hitting a turning point. There is an opportunity to go someplace new and weird. Right now, everything is wide open. There are huge hurdles in so many levels. It’s going to take an elaborate mix of engineers, filmmakers, and producers to figure this out and the first step is to start talking to each other.It’s a small step and I’m unsure of how it will work but today I’m launching an FB group for those interested in making robotic sports moar awesome.All who request will be let in. Those who are shitty will be banned. Serious disputes will be settled via drone jousting.Founder of 

A few years ago, I spent 2 weeks learning how to Kitesurf in Egypt. It was a stressful time in my life as I was in the early stages of a startup with a lean bank account, but a friend of mine managed to convince me to travel 2000+ miles to an isolated spot by the Red Sea, basically in the middle of nowhere.I had the opportunity to study the behavior of multiple beginner groups going through an identical learning process and gained an interesting insight that considerably accelerated my learning curve.I now use this technique every time I learn something new.If you are not familiar with Kitesurfing, it’s a sport where you speed over water using a kite to harness the power of the wind and a board as a floatation device. It is incredibly fun.All beginners are taught the following steps, in this order:We are going to concentrate on Here is what your teacher would tell you:Before trying this out myself, I spent some time working on understanding why this was happening and what I could do to avoid bobbing and instead sail away after my takeoff.I sat down in the sand and started analyzing what the more confirmed kitesurfers were doing in comparison to the beginners.That’s when it hit me: Beginner kites were not coming even close to the horizon whereas confirmed kiters were flying down towards “6 o’clock” as if their lives depended on it.What struck me most is that it has If you don’t pull hard, you kite moves slowly and gives you less power. It’s not rocket science, I was out of the water speeding on my first try.A few minutes later I made a sailing mistake and got slammed face first at high speed into the water, but that’s another story. So why do most beginners only pull halfway? Here’s how their inner voice goes: “I convinced myself not to feel shy, rehearsed the move on land and in my mind many times, and was determined to simply replicate what I saw the experts doing. Two hours later, I was having a blast sailing around, while the others were still “pulling a little more to see what would happen”.The reason I’m sharing this story with you is because it’s such a clear example of howThey all followed a slow process that led them after many unsuccessful tries to Ironically, these people crashed many more times than I did Fast learners know this trick of the mind and apply it all the time. Refuse to be shy. Don’t overthink it. Once you know what to do, do it all the way. Jump in. You will learn faster, and you will have a lot more fun in the process.This is one of my favorite techniques to accelerate my learning curve in any activity especially if it involves physical skills. Fast learners take the plunge and go all the way. They harbor the crazy hope that they might get it right on the first try.And sometimes they do.Since learning this lesson, I’ve applied this technique over and over in many different situations.As a rule of thumb, when I catch myself thinking “let’s give this a try” and my palms are moist, I know that it’s time to remind myself of this story and to make sure I’m in the right mindset. The impact has been amazing.This has turned out to be a powerful tool when teaching beginners — Together, we then work on tricking his brain into avoiding exactly that by focusing on training his body. With the board laying flat on the sand, I have him simulate the action of standing up on his surfboard with the correct position, in one motion.As soon as he gets it right, we start counting. We do it enough times in a row that he stops relying on his brain to tell him what to do and instead trusts his body to remember how it’s done. (The amount of times you should repeat this varies from person to person. It can be anywhere from 10 times to 30+.)When we are out in the water and I push him into a wave, the adrenaline is pumping and his brain is yelling at him that he is not familiar with this dodgy situation and should only “He’s up and surfing the first wave of his life, and most likely has no idea how he did it. His body is taking in the feeling though, and on the next wave it will repeat the process with even more ease.Teaching total beginners how to learn new activities lightning fast. On a quest to teach 1000 adults  how to learn guitar. A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

Chinese: Yahoo recently For the first time ever, there will be an opportunity to compare global streaming metrics between one of the most successful sports in the world and one of the most successful eSports in the world. Those numbers could radically alter the future of sports, TV, and digital advertising because eSports represents more than just competitive video game competitions. It represents digital stars, streaming rights, the global scaling of digital content, niche and mainstream content creators and how they monetize their content.In many ways, traditional sports are becoming more like eSports — global and digital, while eSports is becoming more like traditional sports — local and live. There are challenges that both sports and eSports will have to overcome to achieve those outcomes.Leagues are at the center of sports and the money flows through them. As one of the most financially successful sports league in the world, the NFL serves as a good representative of the sports ecosystem.The league makes money in three ways:Media rights are not increasing in the near future as the NFL’s broadcasting contracts have all been recently renewed. CBS, Fox, and NBC’s contracts expire in 2022. ESPN’s contract expires in 2021; DirectTV in 2023. While sponsorship revenue continues to increase, there are only a few sponsorship categories left There are already some digital deals with In 2014, the Fast and Furious 7 was very successful domestically, earning $351 million in box office sales. It was even more successful internationally, earning $1.16 billion, of which $391 million was from China alone. It’s impossible to ignore the Chinese in films, games, or sports. Increasingly, they want to be a part of the distribution. A recent example is In video games, Tencent’s Games business As American sports seek to grow internationally and digitally, the key challenge is to convince networks and advertisers that streaming audiences are valuable. The numbers of the NFL’s first streaming-only game will likely be impressive and no one is better at selling new forms of media rights than the NFL. Ironically, it will be sports that will increase streaming media rights valuation for eSports. Until that happens, eSports is moving towards generating more local revenue though live events.There are two models for eSports: the central league model, which resembles major American professional team sports such as the NFL, the NBA, and MLB, and the decentralized tournament model, which resembles PGA Tours and NASCAR Series.The main benefit of a central league is more control: protections for players, established rules, and the enforcement of those rules. The main benefit of the decentralized tournament model is shifting the costs of the “regular season” and qualifying tournaments to third-party tournament organizers like Major League Gaming or Electronic Sports League. The center of both models are teams and it is critical that the money flows through them. Teams make money in the following ways:Prize winnings have become very impressive. Bloomberg published a Merchandise sales are an ancillary revenue source but not a game changer. Transfer fees could be substantial, according to this The final source of revenue, sponsorships, represents the largest share of a team’s revenue. eSports sponsorships are typically within the range of $3,000 — $30,000 per month. Multiple sponsorships add up quickly, but it can also presents cash flow problems due to staggered start and end dates. eSports team owners have multiple teams that compete in multiple seasons all around the world. There is a high level of cash flow required to pay for all of that. One solution to cash flow issues is a multi-year sponsorship from a single title sponsor.Multi-year sponsorships pose a risk for single title sponsors because of the rising prices and the lack of proof that eSports sponsorships work. The cost of being a single title sponsor for the best eSports organizations exceeds $2 million per year. For that amount of money on a multi-year basis, sponsors can get This is where eSports can learn from sports. With the amount of money involved with sports sponsorships, sponsors understandably want proof of value. There are many consulting firms and sports market research firms ready to provide that service. As an example, McKinsey  Company, a consultancy, suggests these Coke, as the most iconic brand in eSports, should partner with McKinsey or a sports market research firm and publish their return on investment on sponsorships. This would pave the way for many other brands to test the waters with eSports.In the meantime, there are simple ways for brands to analyze the effectiveness of eSports campaigns.In part How effective were these campaigns digitally? To find out, I analyzed the most recent 3,200 tweets ending August 9, 2015 of three accounts:Using percent of tweets retweeted and favorited as a measure of digital engagement, eSports sponsorships have the potential to rival sports sponsorships in digital engagement. Metrics like long-term brand attributes and indirect benefits are always going to be murky. Counting how many people attended an event and measuring their engagement through actions is not. Live events is a concrete way of demonstrating return on investment.Last October, Major League Gaming secured a 14,000 square feet arena for eSports events. Last weekend, the Dota 2 International was played at KeyArena in Seattle. Next weekend, League of Legend’s North American Summer Finals will be played at Madison Square Garden in New York City; the European Summer Finals will be played at Hovet Arena in Stockholm.Similar to the “cord-nevers” (“The core appeal of sports is its fulfillment of the human need for competition. eSports does the same thing. These two businesses are beginning to look a lot like each other and in some ways, can even help each other. If streaming-only sports games becomes a thing, eSports will certainly benefit. As more “sports-nevers” discover the appeal of live competitions through eSports, they may become fans of traditional sports as well.Sports 2.0 is going to merge the best parts of sports with the best parts of eSports.Check out some of my other writings on eSports:Writing about the future of eSportsA Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

What does it mean to be a fan?After the Boston Red Sox broke their 86 year championship drought in 2004, teary eyed fans wandered the streets exchanging hugs and high fives with complete strangers. Their decades of intense devotion had finally paid off. Ever been in a stadium or arena when the fans cheer in unison to create a deafening crescendo of energy? These electric moments of excessive enthusiasm are what make sports While that emotional connection can result in ecstatic highs and crushing lows, the fan experience can feel superficial when watching from a distance. Block chains could bring fans closer to the action by supporting experiences and rewards that better reflect the nature of devoting yourself to an organization. As fans, we want to be recognized for our support beyond the dollars we spend.Bitcoin and block chains allow for the creation of novel, end-to loyalty programs that are as open to participation as real currencies while being uniquely associated with the sponsoring team. As a permanent set of records, block chains also offer a way to track the unique history of one-of-a-kind sports memorabilia.In the following design concepts, we’ve fleshed out five definitive moments in the life of a rabid baseball fan. But, try to imagine these new moments for any sporting team — or even any brand.It’s opening night at the Oakland Coliseum and you can’t wait to see Sonny Gray, the A’s star pitcher, throw the first pitch of the 2015 season! As you scan your ticket and walk in to the stadium, you feel that amazing buzz of excitement along with the buzz of your phone; it’s letting you know that you’ve just received 1,000 TruFan points for being at the game on opening day.You open your TruFan profile page and see your updated attendance record in your profile. That’s ten opening nights in a row! You take a look at the leaderboard imagining you’re probably one of the A’s top fans. Sure enough, you’ve moved up into the top 150.The third inning rolls around and you begin to realize that this is your lucky day… Steven Vogt hit a home run and you caught the ball!You scan it with your phone to record the event on your TruFan profile and get 5,000 points for the snag! The chip inside the ball gives it a unique identity, keeping track of its position throughout the game, and even the plays in which it was involved: who threw it, who hit it, and who caught it (in this case it’s you!). Ownership of this ball and everything it ever experienced is added to your profile, forever. Because Vogt is one of the most popular players on the team, offers are already pouring in from fans who would like to buy an authentic memento of opening night. You decline, you’re keeping this one for yourself!With that extra 1,000 points, you’ve done it! You’ve crossed a truly epic milestone, the elusive 100K point barrier. Over the years you’ve earned all those thousands of points just by doing things you would do normally: showing up for games, tweeting what’s going on, buying team merchandise, and playing different fantasy sports games. You love that you’re rewarded for being a fan, not just for spending money.Because the Tru Fan currency is open, secure and interoperable, an entire ecosystem has been built around it. You can redeem points for unique experiences offered specifically to you both inside the stadium and out.As you take a well-earned first sip, you dictate a reminder to yourself on your Apple Watch not to misplace your new ball on the way home…It’s the 7th inning and the A’s starting pitcher, Sonny Gray is in the midst of throwing a no-hitter. Your buddy tweets you a link to a “spot prediction” (ie. a pop-up wager placed in the moment) he just made from his couch: Sonny will finish out the game, and there will be no hits. You think that’s a little optimistic, so you vote against his prediction. You retweet the link to get more friends in the mix. A market is dynamically created allowing fans to use their TruFan points to participate in the game in a new way. Your buddy gets points just for creating the market, but you know he’ll lose the wager when Sonny eventually gives up a hit.You love playing these prediction games, it’s kind of like fantasy sports but better. If you involve enough people, you can start to pop up mini, instant prediction markets about things like: Will the A’s win the pennant? Will Friday’s game sell out? Will Sonny Gray throw a strike [right now]? You get the thrill of gambling, while only risking your TruFan points instead of dollars.The game ends and the A’s win! Sonny Gray did give up a hit but the other team didn’t score so you won the game You open up your Tix Fix app and see that his troop is offering to swap you to better seats in order to keep their group together. And — get this! — they’ll even throw in a bonus 2,500 TruFan points for your troubles.These moments all provide a look at how block chains could impact the experience and participation of fans. Three of the five areas we previously identified show up again here:When thinking about sports and loyalty, block chains could help us enhance engagement and reward participation in fundamentally new ways: from new forms of loyalty going beyond dollars spent to creating new prediction mechanisms that allow fans to engage with each other fluidly. While sports is a natural place for these sorts of experiences to emerge, they could easily span to other brands ranging from schools to causes to consumer goods. Business Designer Exploring the future of trust, transactions, and reputation

Socrates once said something that sounded like Back when I was in 4th grade, I used to think I still had a long way to go in school. At the time, education seemed more linear to me. I thought I’d grow up, go to school, learn, and all of sudden know everything I needed to once I was done with what I considered the standard school procedure. So, although I felt far away from the finish line, I understood the goal. Quickly, I realized my 4th grade self was wrong about that (and probably some other things too…). Education was not linear, but continuous. And looking back, I believe it’s not in classes that I learned most.The other night, I had this inner conversation with myself (happens quite a lot), and was thinking about the influence sports had in my life, especially in forming my personality, fueling my passions, and directing how I interact with others. Like any other athlete would probably admit, I would not be the same guy without all those games, trainings, practices, victories, crushing defeats, doubts, celebrations, coaches, and teammates.My short career in sports helped me learn valuable lessons and I feel grateful that I had the chance to go through many life-changing experiences over the years. To this day, I am convinced organized sports provide the best education avenue.I could tell you sports teached me discipline, hard work, and respect.Although it surely did, I also had the chance to go through more concrete lessons.Here are some of them.I always felt like the strong leaders in the different teams I played with were able to stay away from tensions with the help of sincere humility. I looked up to these guys, and they helped me realize that true self-confidence is being humble.You can’t expect anything in life if you don’t give. Perform, and you’ll get playing time. Be generous, and you’ll earn respect. Be dedicated, and people will salute your motivation. Those are all things I really understood because of sports.Through my many years in sports, I was able to comprehend how important it is to pursue something that you’re really passionate about. Not only it provides a daily dose of happiness to undertake something you love, but it’s also the greatest way to be a good at what you do.Sports made me fall in love with success. Whether it’s team accomplishments or individual honors, there is always something to go after in the world of sports. Every little achievement made me proud, and still today I believe my desire to succeed is directly linked to how inspired I felt after important team victories, clutch goals, or late-game comebacks.Above everything, I believe athletics provide individuals with the will to continuously improve in all aspects of their lives.That, I think, is the single most important concept somebody can learn.If you liked this article, please don’t hesitate to recommend below :) !Again, thanks to my friend CBDO at Athlex, golfer, loyal friend

It’s a sad world when employing Skip Bayless is a better business investment than retaining Bill Simmons, but it’s the one we live in.Simmons is undeniably the most powerful person in sports media. His writing won’t win any Pulitzer Prizes, but he has an immense gift at connecting with sports fans. Truthfully, his success is so much more than comparing sports to 1980s films.Say what you will about the man, but he was one of the first people who realized that the Internet would be ruled by snarky blogs, not staid newspaper sports sections. His was also the creative force behind two of the best things going at ESPN, Grantland and “30 for 30” films.But Grantland has been a critical success, no doubt, And as ESPN president John Skipper bluntly put it about Grantland:Unless Simmons is followed out the door by an army of loyal writers and editors, Skipper is correct — albeit harsh. He can say the same for “30 for 30” films. Simmons’ biggest personal outlet, his “B.S. Report” podcast, reportedly isn’t monetized well, either. “The Grantland Basketball Hour” has been nothing more than a thinly-veiled attempt at keeping Simmons happy after he bolted ESPN’s NBA studio team.Almost everything Simmons has done at ESPN has been about branding and enhancing the network’s journalistic credibility, not making money — and Skipper was willing (reportedly) to pay him $3 million per year for that. For what it’s worth, Skipper has also kept ESPN the Magazine afloat for the same very reason. (It also just so happens to be where he began his ESPN career.)That said, there I saw this first hand as a researcher for the magazine for three years. My hourly rate was shit. I was a 1099 freelancer without benefits. Halfway through my time there, my hours were cut in half. And as a final death blow to my ESPN career, the magazine shut down its 34th Street offices in midtown Manhattan and high-tailed it to Bristol for the cheap office space.At the end of the day, ESPN bakes its cake with subscriber fees and television advertising revenue dollars — While people love to rip ESPN, the network is coming off a year in which Sure, Simmons has a cult-like following that found him to be “the only good thing left about ESPN,” and those disciples will loyally follow him to wherever he lands next. But will his loyal fans also stop watching ESPN altogether because they feel the network did Simmons wrong?Not nearly enough to make a dent in ESPN’s PL statement.Simmons’ real value lies in his personal brand, not the tangible revenue he drove to ESPN’s bank account. And to ESPN, that just wasn’t worth $6 million. And it certainly wasn’t worth the headaches.Then there’s Skip Bayless.Sports journalism’s “Public Enemy No. 1” has become a running punchline in sports media, known mostly as a message board troll with a microphone. Simmons has taken multiple shots at the “First Take” panelist in the past, as Bayless stands for everything Simmons hates about the network: Namely, Bayless’ absurd “Hot Takes,” journalistic abominations serving only to draw eyeballs and Internet publicity.Hell, But unlike Simmons, ESPN can directly quantify Bayless’ ROI for the network, and it’s very much in the black.Between the three daily airings of Because these shows are so much cheaper than acquiring and broadcasting live events, the trio is a cash cow for the network. Fellow He’s currently at one-sixth of Simmons’ alleged asking pricing. That’s a hell of a lot better of a return on investment.People can blame ESPN for being myopic and putting financial numbers before a quality product. But that’s what giant, publicly-traded corporations do, and ESPN is (part of) one of them. And the network has proven for 36 years that it’s prepared to let big names walk away from the network — Erin Andrews being the most recent example before Simmons — if the money doesn’t work.The fact is, Skip Bayless will continue to be a better business investment for ESPN than Bill Simmons until three-quarters of a million people no longer tune in to watch a puppet show of tabloid journalism that epitomizes the TMZification of sports media.Do you see that happening? Neither do I.So remember this as a seminal moment for what it is: Another marker in sports journalism’s race to the bottom.LostLettermen.com Founder  Vayner Publishing ManagerA Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

If we are being honest, the inevitable has already happened. It’s tough to pin down when, exactly, it happened, but we crossed over into the next realm of watching sports some time ago. Somewhere, amidst the untenable increase in ticket prices, the widespread accessibility of HDTV to the masses, the proliferation of yearly and daily fantasy sports on in the Internet, and the general sense that one needn’t attend live sporting events to best enjoy them, the game done changed.Meerkat made its debut about a month ago, and has since exploded in grander fashion that any social app we’ve seen in years. The South by Southwest conference doesn’t officially award “winners,” but anyone there or following along on social media could tell you that Meerkat “won” SXSW. It’s been described as “Twitter meets Snapchat,” which is a bit like looking at a rookie quarterback and saying “this guy is Aaron Rodgers meets Russell Wilson!”The hype is real.As with anything else, of course, there are always two. If SXSW was the movie in which a young prizefighter named Meerkat won his first title, then Periscope is the rich kid across town who comes gunning for him in the sequel. Periscope was purchased by Twitter before it even launched, but by the time it went live, the buzz was every bit as big as Meerkat’s.Both apps serve to allow you to live-stream video from your device. As in, you’re basically shooting your own live stream from your phone or tablet. Naturally, this opens up a host of breathtaking possibilities for sports.Want to watch playoff baseball from the front row behind the dugout, but can’t afford the seat? Find a stream and you’re good to go:Or, if you’re truly enterprising — and you’ve got the social media following — it’s only a matter of time before people start crowd-funding tickets by delivering streams from their seats.The University of Miami Athletic Department already has a really cool YouTube channel, featuring this video from the point-of-view of linebacker Denzel Perryman:Wireless digital cameras are well within the budget of every professional team and athletic department in the country. Amazingly, in the face of all the technology (and technology to come), people Why? Because the live experience a completely different, immensely more personal experience. The “guys in the truck” do a commendable job switching camera feeds, but nothing they can ever do will recreate the sensation of watching the game in a crowd with other fans, experiencing the highs and lows along with them in real-time around you. Television feeds are set up to deliver a generic game experience to a massive audience — which lacks the personal touch you get from going to a game in person.Watching the game at the ballpark or at home each has its distinct advantages and disadvantages. Let’s break it down, shall we?As it sits, the televising of games works sort of like how print media used to operate. It’s all a top-down system. You get what you’re served, prepackaged and sanitized, when it’s deemed fit to be served to you. When Twitter came along, it handled this system the same way an axe handles a dead redwood. Nowadays, there are players interacting with the public, direct and unfiltered. There’s even regular old fans with more influence than major media figures. All because they can offer the people what they want, when they want. So it didn’t take long for things to streamline, and evolve to the point where these entities controlled the conversation. The top-down system had been flipped on its head.Twitter wasn’t built for sports media — but as it turned out, the two were made for one another. The former brought unfiltered access to the latter to all, without the crap you wanted to wade through to get there in the first place — and that’s really that what social media is supposed to be all about.Meerkat and Periscope are going to do the exact same thing for video media. Together, they are going to flood the antiquated top-down system with access, and the industry will either adapt or perish.Twitter, for all its greatness, remains a primarily verbal platform. Its backbone is written content. How many of your favorite athletes are actually worth engaging that way? When you strip away the fame (and the PR stuff), how many of them are actually follow-worthy? To be sure, compelling players are out there, but they’re hardly the norm.Now, ask yourself how many athletes are worth Professional sports, those who play them, and live-streaming video are perfect for each other. Twitter revolutionized the way we follow the world of sports news. Meerkat and Periscope stand poised to revolutionize the way we follow the games and players themselves.26. Married. Living a life of awesome. I’m an editor for A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

In 1970, I took the giant leap and became a news reporter based in Appalachia, definitely part of the Real World. To my chagrin, while driving to the latest coal-mine disaster, I soon found myself listening to a young feller named Al Michaels broadcast Cincinnati Reds games.Back in New York, covering shootouts and political chicanery and drug deaths of the seedy 70’s, I began going to Mets games with my kids. This told me I, too, was hooked on something I could not shake. By 1982, I was a sports columnist, working in stadiums packed with people wearing the same color (red being the most annoying), observing a lot of drinking and chanting and gaping.I quickly became an abolitionist toward boxing (while liking most boxers), and I long ago concluded that football is bad for the brain — both of players and fans. Twelve minutes of action in three and a half hours? Are we really that far gone? I came to have no respect for large universities best known for big-time football and basketball. I got burned by writing too many columns about Lance Armstrong and the baseball cheats.Still, I concluded we should not eliminate all sports because When I retired from My current position is: Everybody should cut watching sports to a bare essential. (Playing, competing, exercising, is a totally different proposition.)Make healthy choices. Forty-five minutes of a good soccer match, one half, are perfect for my slog on the treadmill at home. Baseball? I can watch anything Mets and almost nothing Yankees. Lagares, deGrom. Harvey. Wright. The bullpen. Give that up? You see what I mean?I I wouldn’t say that sports build character. Maybe they do, but often by accident or individual free will. However, let me drop a few words on you — reality shows, global warming denial, the Stock Market, Congress, Big Pharma, Big Medicine. There is worse mischief going on out there.Just be disciplined. Show some self-respect.Voted Worst Soccer Defender in History of Jamaica High School, NYC. 
a/k/a The Human Pylon.The story you’ve been missing.

You sit in a crowded airport. Three muscular men in their thirties sit across from you, staring at an open book. As they read they become animated, they stand and clap, they shout, they give each other high-fives, and at times they become angry, curse, and punch their fists together. What could they be reading to excuse this behavior in an airport? What could hold such sway over these people’s emotions? This happened to me six weeks ago, but of course they weren’t reading, they were watching sports.I have always felt like a spectator of spectator sports, watching fandom with confusion, wondering why my friends allow it to take up their time, and having to reconcile my thoughts about Sports with those of my own preoccupations.I left school in Boston thinking that my brain must lack a ‘sports-lobe’, but over the last 6 weeks I have realized that I am not alone in thinking that Fans are dangerously deluding themselves, that there are cheaper and more productive ways to fulfill these people, and that there is a collective need to call ‘time out’.I use the term “Sports” broadly, so by Sports I mean the watching of a game played in person or on video, usually by a team, whose fans wear the team’s colors and often use “we” when referring to the team’s doings (so not competitive swimming or the running of the bulls). The games’ rules are designed so that one team will beat the other in fast paced gameplay and the players are hired professionals. A ball is projected into the air (usually), the fans tense up with anticipation as it flies, and that stress is relieved and the reward centers of their brains are excited when the ball, against the odds, is caught or lands and the team they associate with advances. Putting it like this can make it sound so harmless, but In America, Sports teams represent different cities and people tend to support the teams from where they live. Fans often weave their identities and their in-group loyalty to the place of their birth as if it had been their choice. The rationality behind this regionalism becomes far more confusing when you consider the nature of sports drafting. Sports players are traded and sold to the highest bidder, which creates a mixture on each team of players from all around the country, if not the globe. So although Eagles fans still cheer, “Go Philly”, in any given season it’s likely that most of the team is not from Pennsylvania. This placebo works; by calling the team “The Philadelphia Eagles” and picking where they practice, the regionalism is still activated enough in the fans to make them cheer for Philadelphia. This is highly irrational: When I present these ideas to my friend Tony, an Eagles fan, he laughs from his bed in North Hollywood, throwing a football at the ceiling.I disagree,The criticisms ‘Sports fan, if you have ever seen a stadium filled with die-hard wrestling fans, cheering at the stage, wasting their money, falling for it, then you must understand how many look at In 1976, the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology published a critical study about Why is this not publicly condemned as a leap from otherwise rational minds? If we went out to see a Will Ferrell movie at no point would either of us say, “All of this may be complicating an understanding of Sports fandom.If we watch a comedy, are we really just looking to Identifying yourself as a fan of It’s 10pm, you stand in a Grocery store checkout line as a girl in an oversized Oakland A’s Jersey and penciled eyebrows takes your card.That isn’t her jersey, she’s working late to pay her bills, she’s just told you in passing that her boyfriend mistreats her for something that neither of them have anything to do with and this is commonplace for her.How should you respond? Urge her to get out of the relationship? Find the boyfriend and share choice words with him? You decide to leave, sad and confused, and drive home to your girlfriend where she tells you,Absolutely. Aggression far outdates modern sports and although this may sound damning to an argument against them, it confirms a lot. These men Why might this behavior persist?Sports fandom persists because it provides instant gratification and the men that propagate it are notoriously unapproachable. But telling a fan of Sports fans can become incensed by how strangers perform on television, who knows how they might respond to an Although the sports are nearly identical, a fan of This is why aggressive sports are still among us.A man spends his life imagining the incredible, fantasizing about a future on a distant planet, and years later the real scientists who have reached out to this place name the landing site after him. He has four daughters. Two months after his death imagine what this must have meant to them.Why was I moved by this story, having nothing to do with the team of scientists or the Bradbury family? I didn’t even consider it until I realized how strange it sounded, but now I feel like I better understand myself. I think that I was moved because my brain seems to seek out reasons to feel awe, because I have always liked his stories, and because it inspires me that one person’s thoughts put to paper can help to actualize unparalleled human achievements.Are these same emotions of joy and admiration felt in others when a team inevitably wins the playoffs? Yes.No one’s appreciations are better than anyone else’s because people don’t choose what they are moved by (had I grown up in Tony’s neighborhood, I would definitely be an Eagles’ fan), but it does seem that we are encouraging the appreciation of segregating, instantly gratifying, falsely rewarding activities and asking that our children do so as well.There are countless great things about Sports, they build communities, they create conversations in which many can partake, they have a long history of compelling stories of trials and triumphs, and they can provide hope for many. These side-effects can be incredible and I don’t wish to demean those experiences, but of all human activities for a culture to spend its time on, many of us are wondering ‘There are thousands of other pastimes that fulfill people with an equal time commitment like the actual playing of sports, camping, learning an instrument or a language (at the mention of these Tony suggests sarcastically, twitter: email: This article is also available as a Podcast, here, and is read by the author.film producer at UnisonLA.com / 

The bad behavior, the doping, the wealth or lack of it, the flawed system — all of it raises the question:On Monday, we’re kicking off a discussion on the state of sports in America. We invited sports writers from The story you’ve been missing. Say hi at The story you’ve been missing.

Something amazing happens when you tell people you write about sports for a living. You begin to feel like you’re in a scene from The way people change when talking about “their team,” can be nothing short of zombiefication. Eyes glaze over, vocal chords intensify. Even the stodgiest personality melts like stadium nacho cheese when one hits the raw nerve of their football team, the pitcher of their childhood, or that moment of Olympic glory, replayed on YouTube ad nauseam. Being a sports fan makes us feel alive, but also, a bit like the walking dead: “MY TEAM” becoming the replacement for “BRAINS.”Banning sports is a ludicrous proposition. Although I love being wrapped in a warm fuzzy blanket of nostalgia from time to time myself, I don’t think sports — the multi-billion dollar institutions that carry huge consequence for society — should get a free pass, either at the Little League or global level.I’ve witnessed the zombie-sports-fan phenomena all over the world — in a village in Botswana, a Spanish soccer stadium, an Argentine park, and a neighborhood bar in Brooklyn. The escapism can be a marvellous thing, even if it results in someone puking their guts out after a night of Yankees heartbreak. Sports fandom transcends gender, race, language, political preference, socioeconomic status, or any other way you can think of slicing this planet. However flawed, sports show us that we’re human.I write this from my hometown of Eugene, Oregon, which might as well be renamed Ducktopia. Yes, because of sports, a fluffy, white feathered creature with webbed digits has become synonymous with Titanic-sized men charging at each other, full speed while wearing eye paint. Locals here, in my experience, are very well-versed on where to find the best jogging trails and what Marcus Mariota’s astrological sign is (Scorpio), but would struggle to describe what, if any, tax breaks the University of Oregon receives for its sprawling facilities, how the school is or isn’t educating athletes on domestic violence, or what measures are being taken to prevent head injuries on the football field. It’s tribal, really, but not only are these questions not being answered, they’re often discouraged from being asked in the first place.Even sports journalists can get It is from sports we get so many tough-ass mantras and Major Life Lessons. Vince Lombardi told us that “winners never quit and quitters never win.” Muhammad Ali fought like a butterfly and stung like a bee. Phil Jackson via Twitter said:Superhero aficionados know that with great power comes great responsibility. Fans are consumers, and like shoppers in a mall, they move with their feet and credit cards. It’s not necessary to be a total buzzkill, but asking some basic questions, would be a great start. What’s good and bad? What are the consequences for all involved? What matters and why?No machetes or Michael Jackson “Thriller” dance moves necessary.Author of #TheMonopolists, The story you’ve been missing.

After a few days of being put through the wringer by Following Seth Meyers and Amy Poehler’s televised takedown of his comments, Benoit acknowledged the segment, and again expressed contrition for his remarks:I have no reason to question the sincerity of Mr. Benoit’s apology. After the volume of criticism and negative attention sent his way, he certainly seems to have reconsidered his position, coming to the conclusion that despite his own viewing habits, tossing out an absurd generalization about the “worthiness” of women’s sports was both closed-minded and incredibly mean-spirited.But when I first saw Mr. Benoit’s final tweet, I couldn’t help but think that in at least one major way, he learned the wrong lesson.No, Mr. Benoit… don’t you understand? That’s precisely how this whole mess got started in the first place.I don’t want Benoit to “stick to football” any more than I want our nation’s athletic punditry to “stick to sports.” Think of all the brilliant work we’d lose if sportswriters were not allowed and encouraged to explore race, gender, sexuality, economics, politics, all the complicated and nuanced pieces of our culture that are reflected, endlessly, in the games we play. It is only by being ambitious, curious, and open-minded that anyone can really grow as a writer, as a thinker, as a person. Telling someone to “stay in their lane” serves neither a speaker, nor their audience.So no, Andy, we don’t want you to We want you to be open to the idea that female athletes are capable of incredible feats of athleticism. We want you to consider that the same story arcs and narratives that make men’s sports compelling also exist in the women’s game. We want you to realize that competition can still be riveting, even if a serve doesn’t travel quite as fast, or a drive doesn’t carry as many yards.And… (listen closely, because this part is important), we want you to understand that even if you disagree, even if you stop, and watch, and consider, and you still decide that women’s sports aren’t your proverbial cup of tea, that doesn’t mean you’re The problem isn’t, and never was, that you didn’t want to watch the Women’s World Cup. The problem was a stubborn, reflexive, blanket statement about those that do. Because, Which brings us to Wendy Parker.On Monday, this site published “It’s hard to know where to begin, given that Parker’s analysis is flawed in so many ways.For starters, many of her observations are flatly, demonstrably false. She writes that she “seldom see(s) much in the way of true substance about women’s sports on Deadspin,” ignoring None of this, by the way, was particularly hard to find. These sites are not, as Parker claims, simply “aggregating anger”. They are putting their money where their mouth is, and if these organizations want to call out coverage when it falls short, such is their right.Then there is the cynical, Randian, complete submission to the invisible hand of the sports media marketplace. Let’s be thankful for whatever crumbs on the table are offered when it comes to coverage of women’s sports, because that’s what the market will bear. After all, says Parker, these events are still “subject to market forces, consumer desires and, yes, television ratings.”But it is silly, and ultimately destructive, to think that every programming decision must revolve entirely around ratings points, audience metrics, and what “moves the needle.”Yes, sports media is a business. But to endlessly chase popularity at the expense of quality, and variety, is an inevitable race to the bottom. Which brings us to yet another issue with Parker’s column, her bizarre issues with the feminist movement. Or, should I say, with “feminist grievance professionals,” “Centers for Feminist Research,” and “feminist bloggers.” Even though, in 2015, What other explanation could there be for a piece that sets its sights on Jane McManus and Kate Fagan, two incredibly talented, accomplished journalists and commentators, whose only mistake was speaking openly about the marginalization of women’s sports, and women’s voices, in the industry?And yes, this marginalization, this bias, these institutional barriers against women — they do exist. I know because I’ve seen them first hand during my time in the industry. I’ve walked into conference rooms filled with men, to brainstorm a show that will be put together by an overwhelmingly male staff, and which will, A product of the marketplace? Probably. A result of some deeply entrenched history? Undoubtedly. But that doesn’t mean we don’t have the right to challenge it, to speak up and question whether, with a little effort concentrated in the right places, we can all do a little bit better.But that is what these women put up with, and kudos to them, because it must feel like quite the uphill slog. Sometimes it seems that there is nothing more challenging, in our echo chamber society, than changing the status quo. If there are those brave enough to take on that battle, to advocate for more visibility, more opportunity, more Ultimately, the problem with Wendy Parker’s column was very similar to the problem with the Andy Benoit tweet that got this whole s***storm started. Neither one was trying to And then there is Parker, whose thesis, near as I can make one out, seemed to be that women’s sports have come an awfully long way, so now it’s time for everybody to pipe down. It’s a particularly confounding argument, given that so many of the advances she cites, that she seems genuinely happy about, came as a result of public outcry, of upheaval, of There’s a reason why hundreds of women’s sporting events are now televised on the Worldwide Leader. There are forces responsible for the slow, but tangible growth in the amount of time sports shows devote to female athletes. There are people, undoubtedly, who had to agitate for the founding of espnW, because why put money into women’s sports, really, when you know that the NFL, the NBA, and MLB would all be more lucrative?Within her piece, Parker discusses her experience waiting for Brandi Chastain at the Rose Bowl Wendy Parker is right. There is no Title IX for sports media. Why do you think so many champions of women’s sports are determined to take the fight into their own hands? There is no law that mandates the kind of sports media women deserve.Shame on anyone who tells them they don’t have the right to advocate for what they want.Writer/Producer for Fox Sports, The Cauldron, Vice Sports, Fansided. Love my family, my friends, my Mets, and my Jambands. A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

The main argument against performance-enhancing drugs is that they create an unfair playing field, much in the way Syracuse University’s Jim Boeheim created an unfair educational playing field by making the student portion of student-athletes optional. If all athletes were permitted to use steroids, they would build a better product for fans. Likewise, the pharmaceutical community would have the opportunity to invest in cleaner and safer chemical enhancements. But healthy living is not the point; this is about making sports more exciting, harder-hitting, bone-crushing spectacles by creating bigger, faster athletes.We’ve already seen the results for professional football and baseball, but imagine the possibilities for other sports. A 250-pound, six-foot-four, racquet-wielding Ronda Rousey squaring off on the tennis court against Maria Sharapova. You and three relatively un-athletic peers taking gold in the four-man bobsled race at the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympics. Or a bronzed and dazzling Alex Rodriguez injected with ballerina-enhancing drugs (BEDs) on his way to being crowned victor of “Why limit the fun to just the ticket holders and owners? Legalize gambling so everyone has a vested interest in the sport and outcome,” says Eddie, a part-time bookie from Long Island who takes bets on major sporting events. “It will only bode well for the economy.”Like the roughly Historically, fines and suspensions have done little to change athletes’ behavior. In the spirit of capitalism, a better approach might be to monetize the problem. Imagine a new kind of investment, A player would be required to hold 40 percent of his “stock”; owners and even the NFL could hold a percentage, with the rest available for purchase by stockholders. A player would not be permitted to sell his stock until retirement. In this way, both athletes and investors would have an interest in their portfolios performing well, which would come from a combination of on-field execution and off-field behavior.Those who own stock in an athlete that hits two homeruns, or rushes for 150 yards, or rescues a busload of children will benefit from the rising stock price. Whereas when an athlete is arrested for domestic violence, or appears on TMZ drunkenly plodding through a field sobriety test, or is accused of running a dogfighting syndicate, his stock will plummet, affecting both his salary and shareholder stakes.The stock market works on the assumption that there is fierce competition between companies — every time someone purchases an Android phone, they choose not to purchase an iPhone. Offering the general public a similar choice — the standard of athlete in which they purchase stock — would improve competition and encourage the type of role model conduct that makes fans spend $200 on game jerseys.All team loyalty aside, would you invest in an over-the-hill, average-fielding, trustworthy New York Yankees shortstop, or a prime-of-his-career, hard-hitting, hard-punching Baltimore Ravens running back?Author THIS IS YOUR CAPTAIN SPEAKING, novel by SimonSchuster (2012), imagines a flight like the Miracle on the Hudson was concocted. The story you’ve been missing.

In case you missed it, the latest major women’s sporting event has brought out the usual herd of feminist grievance professionals — in both academia and the media — to bitch and moan about the supposedly terrible coverage of female athletes.Just before the Women’s World Cup kicked off in Canada, a University of Southern California feminist think tank dropped its latest As record numbers of Americans tuned into U.S. Women’s National Team (USWNT) matches on Benoit eventually apologized, removed his “offending” tweets and promptly made himself scarce.His remarks were satirized by Amy Poehler and Seth Meyers, and the odious Keith Olbermann delivered his typical gasbag takedown.Of course, all this did was prompt some prominent female sports journalists to wail about how So why all the unhappiness? Why can’t those who shout the loudest about the value of women’s sports pause long enough to consider that the scenario they’re lamenting is hardly what they believe it to be?Since the 1999 Women’s World Cup, there has emerged a whole new level of acceptance and media coverage for female athletes, sparked by an incredible decade for women’s soccer in the United States, and women’s team sports in general.I know, because I was there — at both ends. Waiting for Brandi Chastain in the postgame media zone at the Rose Bowl was not a place I imagined being several years before, when I first began pitching coverage of women’s sports to disinterested male newspaper and magazine editors.In 1989, Michael Messner, a USC professor, began tracking the percentage of women’s sports featured on ESPN’s He’s since continued that research, and — with a former USC graduate student, Cheryl Cooky, now on the Purdue faculty — recently issued an update, jarringly titled “The report’s moniker— exclamation point included—came from a line uttered during What these researchers Messner and Cooky lament, in part, that:But what the authors fail to acknowledge is that it’s not actually about time; it’s about what a program’s directors and producers believe will yield them the biggest possible audience.As These are positive developments that mournful ideologues conveniently ignore. Messner and Cooky barely mention espnW, a vertical launched in 2010 and which no national sports web property has even attempted to match.Yet two leading espnW writers perpetuated similar grievances, even after the vaporizing of Andy Benoit.Jane McManus, for example, rattled off a litany of tweets about women’s sports media coverage that included this huff: “She didn’t actually specify a sport, so a reader is left to guess. It couldn’t have been women’s college hoops on ESPN outlets, which broadcasted more than 800 games last season alone.Or, as Nor could it be a reference to women’s college volleyball or soccer, whether on ESPN or myriad regional sports and conference networks, some of which devote nearly half their live-game programming to women’s sports.It’s fair to winder if McManus actually bothers to look at her own employer’s platforms, to find out exactly how much there is of something she claims doesn’t exist?Ditto for Kate Fagan, her tag-teammate on espnW’s During It’s one thing for gender studies professors commissioned by some Center for Feminist Research to fundamentally misunderstand the purpose of commercial media. But it’s particularly curious for professional journalists employed by a notoriously competitive company — and make no mistake about it, ESPN wants to dominate coverage of women’s sports just like everything else — to show such disregard for the commercial realities of a business that pays their salaries.Does Fagan realize that her semi-regular appearances on “Around the Horn” are made possible by ratings that appear to satisfy ESPN brass?When McManus tweeted that espnW is vital because ESPNThis explains the occasional Viagra commercials, but it‘s more telling about who’s What is rarely, if ever discussed is that just because more females are I disagree with what Andy Benoit tweeted. But what he expressed reflected a value judgment thousands of men Was Sally Jenkins of Surely any male writer saying those things would be hounded off Twitter — as Andy Benoit has been — by a sports media establishment that brokers little dissent about women’s sports.Those outlets fomenting phony outrage over Benoit offer precious little coverage of women’s sports themselves, and if they’re honest, they’ll admit it’s because they’re facing the same market pressures as any media.Poehler and Meyers trashed I seldom see much in the way of true substance about women’s sports on Deadspin, for exampleAre any of these outlets willing to “donate” the time, space, staffing and resources to cover women’s sports that they demand of other media? It’s not up to the commercial media to help women’s sports become commercially viable; The Women’s World Cup, and the USWNT, remain needle-movers due to their success on the field, compelling personalities and the demographics they represent. There was an organic response to the 1999 team that still endures, albeit seemingly every four years. Other women’s team sports — college and pro — have to build and expand their audiences with commercially attractive products, year-by-year. There is no guarantee this will succeed, and even if it does, that process is bound to take time.There is no Title IX for sports media, and nor should there be. We are in the phase of fostering the While this is a no-doubt daunting challenge, there’s never been a more amazing time to be a fan of women’s sports. All you have to do is turn on the TV.Web editor by trade; recovering print hack by habit; sports books and history geek by obsession. Aunt Dorothy’s Imaginary Heiress. about.me/wendyparkerA Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

The following are things I’ve written about journeyman NBA meatpatty Raymond Felton. In the interest of not typing until I drown beneath the rising sea, I’ve limited the list to disses dished during the 2013–14 NBA season:A more self-respecting reporter might meet these flails of authorial power with a simple, pointed question: “Don’t you feel Nope!It’s not that I think Raymond Felton is a bad person. Why does any of this matter, you ask?The explosion of blogs — team-centric and otherwise — has completely transformed the world of sports reporting. For the better, I’d wager, ledger considered in full. And yet, the profession’s upper crust is still beholden to that most mendacious of media monoliths: objectivity. “The view from nowhere,” a professor of mine once called it. I never forgot that. He also used “galloping horse shit” a lot.I never forgot that, either. Galloping horseshit. What fun to say.It’s worth bearing in mind that objectivity in journalism was a decidedly 21st-century phenomenon. During the preceding centuries, the media landscape was fairly riddled with widely-read rags from across the political spectrum. You can thank, among others, Walter Lippmann — one of the founding editors of Lest we digress: You can have an opinion or a perspective — a view from When a writer synthesizes facts to cull a personal perspective, it shouldn’t be seen as compromising the power or poignancy of a piece. If anything, the resulting honesty — hostile though the tone and tenor may be — reminds the reader that the writers whose work they support are actually quite a bit like them: sports purists who demand perfection, often to the detriment of reason.The suggestion here isn’t that reporter subjectivity is somehow being subjugated. The rise of Bill Simmons, to use perhaps the most polarizing example, proves there’s a market for the unabashedly biased. (Even if his fan-first zealotry ultimately sealed his purge from the Mothership.) The fact that bias boasts a billion different voices is a boon, not a burden, to greater discourse. And with the fantastic growth of sports websites — many of which celebrate those biases — the case can be made that objectivity for the sake of itself is finally on the wane.Try this thought experiment. Think of your typical NBA arena. Every seat, from first-row folding chair to that guy with an entire section to himself huffing glue in the arena’s nosebleeds, has its own vantage point. It’s not merely that seeing or talking about the game in the same terms is philosophically or journalistically impossible; it’s This logic can be applied to reporting. Our angles — in this case, our own preconceived biases forged by bad tastes and serotonin-oozing memories — inform the way we think and feel about a specific team, whether we realize it or not.Is it, though?The question is why Sports, though, at their core, are pastimes; our respite from the rancid rancor of politics. They’re outlets —physical, emotional, psychological — through which we can exercise our innate competitiveness in an arena that, when all’s said and done, doesn’t entail near the life-and-death decisions we see wielded in Washington.Watching the Knicks, for me, is a chance to frolic in a fucked-up alternate universe where nothing makes sense. Where nothing is It’s okay to take sports seriously. One could argue, as I have and will, that these pastimes provide a relatively stakes-free forum in which to flex our inherently human competitive bent. There are no shortage of disheartening exceptions, of course. And there’s certainly a case to be made that exercising these muscles — to beat you, to be the best, to win at any cost — only gets our jingoistic juices coursing faster, such that our civic faculties inherently suffer.But it’s also okay to occasionally step beyond the rah-rah rancor and recognize sports for what they are: Why, then, do sports media’s most widely consumed outlets — your ESPNs, the dinosaur dailies, etc. — continue to trumpet objectivity (whether intentionally or implicitly) lock and stock? It’s easy to see Simmons as a harbinger of subjectivity’s ascent. In reality, his role on Recent dramatics aside, and whatever your opinion of the man, The Sports Guy has helped cleave open a long-neglected niche. One that has undoubtedly survived, grown, and thrived despite a very real, and very entrenched, opposition. Even if these gatekeepers don’t see themselves as such. Stigmas against caustic, cavalier reporting remain, particularly on the beat. But it’s only a matter of time before these shifting tectonics thrust up a fresh new terra — one where cutting-edge stats and new narrative sensibilities usurp the salt-choked dust bowls of the beat. Where imagination and creativity are encouraged and rewarded, rather than glared into corners (or next to Spencer Hawes).The propagation of biased content that is at once compelling, informative, and entertaining — a wonderful thing, right? But how many of the most nationally renowned writers regularly take the kind of risks that have become commonplace within the greater sports blogosphere? They can’t. They’d have their badges snatched faster than they could say “media room brickwich platter of shame.” That’s not just a sad byproduct of J-School gospel; it’s a very real reflection of the existential crisis currently unfurling within traditional media.Even the old-school scribes have their biases, of course. They just come through in different ways — in their sources and subjects, in whom they choose to highlight and why. But it’s the lip-serviced That it’s a buyer’s market for perspectival sports journalism is no secret: With a seemingly limitless supply of content and only so many eyes and minds to consume it — to say nothing of advertising dollars going to precious few outlets — the craft remains, for far too many, an unpaid passion. And until the media-consuming public realizes that a mammoth majority of what comes out of locker-room reporting is little more than buffering fluff, that dynamic isn’t likely to change.But as with any generational sea change (A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

One result of this addiction is that I’ve come to wonder: what would happen if sports didn’t exist? If we channeled the kinetic and psychic This week, in an attempt to measure the severity of my problem, I made a hash mark the size of a I’m not alone, of course: an estimated But sports are clearly one of the major contributing factors when it comes to national news apathy: 59.5 million unique Americans visited NYTIMES.COM in February of this year, while just a few months earlier Sports and the super humans who play them are a diversion from the complex, frustrating, painful drudgery and work that make up some necessary portion of life. We need games — or religion, if you’re that sort — to help keep us sane when the planes crash into peaks and the politicians let us down and the police fail to protect us and our bosses float another TPS report across our desks. But we do not need sports to Civic engagement is the lifeblood of a healthy democracy. And, much as I’d hate to see sports go, banning sports would undoubtedly lead to a more informed and active electorate. To the extent that sports train us to be warriors — that was the original goal of our organized athletic games, after all — we might even have less war! But I’ll settle for an awakened populace, beginning with me. I pledge to read the Journalist, filmmaker, Outside mag alum.The story you’ve been missing.

Growing up, my life was dominated by sports. I played soccer at a high level (the club team that I captained was a perennial contender for regional and national titles) and if I wasn’t training by myself, at team practice four times a week, or traveling around the Northeast (I’m from Jersey, sorry) and across the country for tournaments, then I was playing any number of neighborhood sports with my brother and friends. As an athletic kid who loved competing I far preferred the field or court to the classroom.Over the last few years as I’ve transitioned from most of my time being spent in school to spending most of my time trying to create value for employers, customers, and myself, I’ve started to discover that maybe it wasn’t the worst thing after all that I prioritized athletics over school.It turns out that a lot of skills developed through sports translate over to the worlds of business and entrepreneurship. In both sports and business, you have to navigate your inner and outer lives in order to achieve goals you and your team have set. Here are a couple lessons I’ve kept with me that I’ve learned from sports. Without them and others, I would probably be crawled up in a corner somewhere.I was fortunate enough to be trusted by my coaches and teammates with leadership roles on the teams I played with. While part of the responsibilities of being captain of a team were ceremonial, such as wearing an armband or doing the coin toss, there were high expectations set. Apart from performing well as an individual player, I would be tasked with making sure our team was focused and ready to play at a high-level before the games and being able to make adjustments to our strategy during games.The most important skill I had to develop in order to be an effective leader was managing personal relationships with my teammates. I had to figure out when Mark needed a kick in the ass to get him fired up or that Chris responded poorly to the in-your-face mentality and needed an explanation of the adjustments he needed to make in a more rational tone.Basically, I learned that when working with others, you oftentimes have to adjust your behavior based on their preferences. This is not to be disingenuous and manipulate them but to simply recognize that people are different and respond to particular behaviors as such.One quick note on the topic of leadership: I highly value gaining leadership experience at a young age through sports because true leadership development opportunities are extremely limited for young people. Their lives are hardly ever in their own control, and they are rarely given opportunities to collaborate with others. 99% of group projects in school or office positions in students clubs just aren’t going to make the grade.If you play any type of sport long enough, you’re going to tally up the failures: big game losses, subpar individual performances, etc. The higher the competition level you play doesn’t necessarily mean you’re failing less — it just means that the stakes are higher, you more invested in the outcome, and the opponents are stronger.I remember when I was 12 or 13 and my team lost a state tournament quarterfinal match to our biggest rival. I took it particularly hard and ended up sulking and losing most of my appetite for two weeks. My parents openly discussed taking me to counseling before I finally snapped out of it. Probably not the best response of a teenager to losing a game, but that’s the point: everyone has to learn how to respond to failure–the sooner the better.In sports, failure is pretty constant because perfection is typically the goal, and it’s unattainable. Athletes learn to not view failure as the ultimate disappointment. They learn that Founding Team Member/Education Adviser at@DiscoverPraxis. Entrepreneurship, education, personal development, sports,  other awesome thingsWhere unconventional paths in entrepreneurship, personal development, and education meet.

You may not realize it, but professional sports are actually investment businesses. And no, I don’t mean in the way that franchises and their owners turn their millions into billions via proprietary trading accounts on Wall Street, either. While a professional sports team runs a nine-figure budget, what’s more important here is the emotional investment in the product on the field.The National Football League knows just how much its fans care about its product— that’s how they can can charge $300 for NFL Sunday Ticket with a straight face. Football, more than any other sport, has proven itself a master of using the emotional investment of fans to generate incredible profit margins. Though it’s the “best” in this regard, the National Football League is certainly not alone.From a veritable arsenal of revenue sources — typically, television subscription packages, licensed merchandise, and the actual tickets to the games themselves are the big pushers — every last one of the major North American sports leagues have become experts at milking peak revenue out of those who are already hooked on their offerings.They hungrily snatch up every dollar on the table — except for the last one. Yes, in a world of licensed team pacifiers and $20,000 PSLs, there still remains unexplored territory, the final frontier, so to speak. A place that until recently has been shunned as too dangerous, too risky, too seedy to visit. I speak, of course, of the sports book.When most people think “sports betting,” they think of the old-school Vegas stereotype—smoky back rooms and bodyguards named “Tiny” that weigh 400 lbs.Only, that’s not reality.The reality is that the average sports gambler is not a criminal. He would be just as put off by that scene as you are. He might be one of your work buddies; a regular nine-to-fiver, who occasionally hits on a three-team teaser and buys a few rounds for the boys to celebrate.And here’s the kicker—that game on TV in the bar? He’s probably more emotionally invested in that game than anyone else in the place!Shouldn’t that be all the professional leagues care about? After all, higher ratings lead to higher advertising rates, which generates more money for the league. Again, if you have a sports league that thrives on the emotional investment of its fan base, stoutly avoiding an industry that serves to increase the constituent’s emotional investment isn’t just shortsighted — it borders on commercial lunacy.So why aren’t professional sports leagues encouraging gambling like the government encourages you to buy lottery tickets? For one thing, it’s illegal in 46 of 50 states, thanks to the Bradley Act of 1992. That’s not the only reason, though. Leagues also support the ban on sports betting because they are increasingly wary of how fans perceive officials when disputed calls arise.Back in 2009, when Delaware was in the process of becoming the fourth state to make sportsbooks legal, NFL spokesman Joe Browne argued in opposition to the measure, claiming, in part:Thing is, fans already do this every single week. They are both passionate and irrational already! They think every call that goes against their team means the fix is in, and every call that goes for their team is simply the result of latent, earlier-game bad luck evening itself out. Gambling might make this marginally worse — but we’re talking about the equivalent of turning the volume up approximately two decibels on a concert-quality sound system. Even the people looking for one will be hard-pressed to spot the difference.The NFL’s stance on sports betting is quite clear: Major League Baseball, a sport that typically operates at a pace twenty years behind everyone else, remains passionately anti-gambling, too; nearly a century after the Black Sox Scandal defiled the game and led to the ban of eight players. Pete Rose will most likely never get in the Hall of Fame because he admitted to betting on baseball while he was manager of the Cincinnati Reds. Rose accumulated more hits during his career than anybody else in history.One disaster that happened a century ago, and one isolated incident involving a guy who probably smells like a food truck. That’s enough of a reason to shut down the motion we revisit the league’s stance on sports betting?On the surface, the NBA has the most justifiable reason to shun the sports betting industry, thanks to Tim Donaghy and his point shaving venture. But in a world with legal and regulated sports gambling, wouldn’t Donaghy’s sins have been brought to light much sooner — or been avoided, altogether? Adam Silver’s recent comments about legalized sports betting in the United States being “inevitable” gives hope for The Association. But there’s a big, big difference between making public statements and actually acting on them.Does the rest of the world follow America’s lead when it comes to betting on sports? Hardly. And foreign economies who have made peace with the industry are reaping handsome dividends off of that peace. The United Kingdom regulates betting under the Gambling Act of 2005, promulgating updated gambling laws, protecting potential addicts, and collecting tax revenue through online gaming. Though less than a decade old, the UK’s new system to regulate gambling has proven wildly successful in various forms.By having the government regulate the industry, bookmakers are now legitimate businesspeople, and citizens that choose to participate in sports betting are no longer considered criminals. Furthermore, the gambling industry in the UK legitimately employs over 100,000 people, generates more than $9.6 billion in revenue (0.5% of the whole nation’s GDP), and contributed more than $1.12 billion in taxes to the government in 2012.Even the mighty English Premier League has embraced the gambling industry. There is a legal sportsbook, Betfred, situated in Wembley Stadium. Instead of preaching the evils of sports betting like U.S. leagues do, the EPL has seized on a golden opportunity to generate additional revenue by capitalizing on the passion of its fans. And it’s not as though the Premiership is a smaller enterprise than any American sports league. Manchester United is the most valuable sports franchise in the world at $2.23 billion (per Forbes, 2012), and Arsenal is tenth at $1.29 billion.If the country that features the only sports franchise in the world worth more than $2 billion can successfully implement sports betting, why can’t we do it in the United States?Truthfully, the primary reason most people are resistant to sports betting’s legalization in the U.S. is the perception that easier access to gambling will result in a greater number of gambling addicts. But haven’t those individuals always found a way to gamble elsewhere — typically in the shadows — regardless of legality? Wouldn’t shining the spotlight on those with gambling problems expedite the ability of our society to help them?If the industry is monitored and regulated by the government, it will be easier to identity those that struggle with addiction, and to take the necessary steps to rehabilitate them. States with legalized casinos do exactly that—it is codified into the law that such institutions take steps to identify and help problem gamblers.An intelligent counterargument to legalized sports betting usually cites what happened at Arizona State University in the late 1990s. There, a former-student-turned-bookmaker bribed basketball players to ensure that ASU did not cover the spread. Yes, these things can and do happen, but it seems more likely that regulation would have resulted in openness amongst the bookmakers, and avoidance of this situation altogether. I will instead point out that this was a college-level incident, with amateur players — for the purposes of this post, my focus is on professional leagues.A December 2012 Fairleigh Dickinson University’s PublicMind Poll showed that 51 percent of registered voters favored legalized sport betting, and one in five U.S. men admitted to betting on sports. That equates to roughly 31.5 million sports bettors in America. If the average current sports bettor gambles $500 a year, we can VERY conservatively guess that the sports betting is an industry worth over $1.5 billion annually.And to hammer the point home of how conservative that estimate actually is: in fiscal year 2010, the state of Nevada alone reported $2.8 billion in legal sports bets for the year, according to the Center for Gaming Research.Perhaps the biggest reason sports betting is still illegal in the U.S.? In our eagerness to proselytize abstinence, we’ve never had time to stop and think about exactly what a legalized betting system should look like. That’s a fair concern, so let’s explore how to ensure the credibility and legitimacy of the sports betting industry and its bookmakers across the country:These four steps would allow the government to generate significant additional tax revenue, to monitor gambling activities in order to protect individuals from addiction, to create jobs in floundering local economies, and to allow leagues to develop new revenue streams and deeper emotional connections with their fan bases. For enterprises that trade in passion and emotion, providing every opportunity for fans to invest in outcomes is an ideal model, both now and in the future.U.S sports leagues have developed products that its customers support to the point of irrationality. Fans have already made lifetime emotional investment, and the leagues do not hesitate to extract every dollar they can based on those ties that bind. And yet, they haven’t tapped into a gargantuan revenue stream, avoiding sports betting at all costs, even as the system begs to be taken advantage of.Technically speaking, it is the government that has to legalize sports betting, but with billions of lobbying dollars to play with, it’s not like legalized gambling wouldn’t be a thing if the leagues wanted it to be one.Sports betting is not a crime; it’s time we stopped treating it as such. The majority of the country approves of the practice — which can be used a legitimate investment strategy — legal safeguards can be designed and implemented to protect those vulnerable to addiction, and a significant (and now untouchable) revenue stream will be made available to our cash-strapped government. It’s time for the law to recognize the potential (read: probable) realities.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

cartoonist, writer, raconteur : Tom the Dancing Bug : Political cartoons, comics journalism, humor and non-fiction. Words plus pictures.

Should we ban sports? Think about what you are suggesting. Consider the gravity of what you propose. Don’t you have the slightest clue of what such a radical approach would do to society at-large?! Have you no realistic conception of what sports mean to the common man?! Are you insane?!Forget, for just a moment, about the endless cornucopia of delicious scandals served up by the $10 billion industry which is the National Football League. Kindly ignore the $500+ that was liquidated from your bank account after you took your family of four to witness a Major League Baseball game from the nosebleeds. Pretend, if you will, that ever-depressing debate over the non-payment of “student-athletes” in the NCAA doesn’t continue to rage. Hey, look over here! No, not at those hate-filled, racist soccer fans who continue to practice their bigotry in public view from the stands of European matches. And, yikes, I almost forgot, if we didn’t have sports, then for what purpose would Sports are, literally, everything. If we were to ban them, we would have precious little to do with our time, our money, and, most importantly, our passionate fervor over symbolic athletic representations of what we, ourselves, were never good enough to achieve. That would be a tragedy that our nation, nigh, the world, simply could not bear. Let us continue to cling tightly to our notions of escapism, Anyway, I gotta run, the game starts in 20 minutes.Founder, Managing Editor of The story you’ve been missing.

St. Laurence High School (IL) boys’ basketball coach Jim Maley never dreamed he’d have to face down legal action from a parent. In 2013, however, that’s exactly what happened, back when he was coach of Chicago’s Kenwood Academy.Did he run one of his kids to death? Accidentally leave a player stranded during an out-of-state road trip? Grab one by his shirt collar? No — rather, Maley claims, the threat was levied by parents who believed he was actively conspiring against their son, telling college coaches to According to Maley, he did everything possible for the kid in question, but when their son fell short, the parents had to blame someone, and so they blamed the coach:Maley’s story isn’t unique. According to several Chicago-area coaches and referees, parents of young athletes have become increasingly hostile and abusive. This troubling trend matches both national survey data and the conclusions of longtime youth sports observers and experts.According to a data collected by the Liberty Mutual Responsible Sports’ Sportsmanship Survey, some 55 percent of the coaches polled had experienced parents yelling at their children during games. Some 40 percent of youth coaches stated that they had experienced parents yelling at Douglas E. Abrams is a professor at the University of Missouri’s School of Law, a youth hockey coach of 42 years, and the author of a Despite this, he believes that it’s a small subset of parents giving the broader group a bad name. “This is a small minority of parents. That small minority can ruin the experience for the rest of the parents.”Some parents chafe at how much playing time their son or daughter gets. Others yell instructions to their child while the coach is trying to command attention in the huddle. They’ll go after referees if they don’t like a call.Sadly, there have even been instances in which referees, who are under a tremendous amount of pressure, make decisions that end up costing lives. One youth basketball referee, who just happened to be an off-duty sheriff’s deputy, was Kirk Mango, a former coach turned youth sports advocate from suburban Chicago, says these confrontations are much more commonplace than they ever used to be. Mango says he knew things were changing once he saw parents on opposing sides going after each other:Jason Palmer is an official with the Illinois High School Association (IHSA), the nation’s second oldest high school sports state governing body. For seven years now, Palmer has served as a referee, and one thing he says he has learned is that there is absolutely no consistency in what kind of safety enforcement you can expect from school to school.“Some schools have police officers. Some schools have security guards. Some schools, you may see nobody there,” Palmer said. “You just work with the people who are there.”Palmer says the IHSA is trying to change the cultureLeroy Willis is the coach of FERRARI AAU 14U in Chicago. Each year, Coach Willis rosters several players who are highly sought after on the Chicago high school scene. He says that if a potential altercation were to ever arise, he has a plan in place.“Although I’m real mild mannered, I demand respect. So when I’m approached, I will always try to handle the situation as best as possible. I’ll usually lead the parent to a discreet area away from any kids and onlookers. I then listen to their concerns and we talk about them.”Scott Phillips, who covers prep basketball for Comcast SportsNet Chicago, often sits in the crowd amongst the fans and parents since most high school gyms don’t offer a press area. He says the incidents aren’t exclusive to any certain schools or specific areas.“Most of the stuff I’ve seen from unruly fans is from stuff taken from the outside the gym from a neighborhood standpoint,” Phillips said. “I’ve seen them in city schools as well as all over the suburbs.”Phillips believes that the importance placed on youth sports is having an adverse effect on the quality of referees.“I’ve seen parents go after referees in a grassroots setting,” Phillips said. “I think with grassroots there’s a higher level of competition and the room for error is much slimmer.”Palmer went on to say that the parents who get too involved set a bad example for the players:Abrams believes that overspecialization is a mitigating factor in the dark turn that youth sports have taken.“Physically, children aren’t ready for continuous, 11–12 month repetitive activity in an organized sport,” he said. “The few professionals I know tell me that they became good because of the foundation that was built when they were younger playing various sports.”NFLPA President/Cincinnati Bengals lineman Eric Winston was a part of a panel called “The Business of Football” for the sixth annual “Blog with Balls,” a sports media workshop earlier this month in Chicago. Winston echoed Abrams sentiments when he was asked about youth sports.“I played all three sports(football, basketball, baseball) growing up,” Winston said. According to him, he wouldn’t have made it to the NFL if he had just played football.To avoid conflicts, some schools have tried to act as a mediator between parents and coaches who are at odds with one another. Marian Catholic High School (IL)Athletic Director Dave Mattio says his school handles those types of incidents on a case by case basis. “We would speak to the coach of that sport and sit down with the parent to hash it out,” Mattio said. “If a resolution can’t be reached, we have the police in the building during events.”According to the IHSA, their referees are mandated to report any and all incidents that disrupt play. The IHSA bylaws states that, “A full written description of the incident, utilizing the IHSA Special Report Form, must be submitted online by the official to the principal of the ejected player or coach and the IHSA within 48 hours of the incident.”In Illinois, anyone who assaults a referee can be charged with aggravated assault, a class A misdemeanor.Morgan Park (IL) High School coach Nick Irvin followed up back-to-back state championships with a 3rd-place finish this year. And like Maley, he’s had his share of run-ins with parents. He tells his players to shut it out like any other distraction, and focus on the task at hand.“I tell the kids not to pay attention to what’s going on in the stands or the sideline,” Irvin said. “Only worry about what’s on the court.” He goes on to say that the parents and fans who are around his program understand that he has a job to do.“The parents I have now understand the game. They are more receptive to their kids being coached,” Irvin said. “I’m having a good time coaching. If fans are supportive of what you’re trying to do, it makes it much easier to win.”Irvin may be on to something. By educating and informing players and their parents about the dangers of taking the games too seriously, he seems to have found a way to diffuse tension, impart perspective and focus everyone on the most important thing: having fun.I write about sports, politics, race and culture. Im destined to live the dream for my peeps who never made it.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

What does it mean to be a college sports fan? Is it setting up a tent and waiting in line for days to cop season tickets? Is it painting your chest and losing your voice heckling a rival at the free-throw line? Is it taking a caravan cross-country to support your team at a bowl game?Should there be any more to it than that?On Sunday, a University President David Boren took On social media, those athletes expressed their anger at an institution and a student body that worships them for their performance on the field, but does not accept them as full human beings off it.“[These] are the same motherf — ers shaking our hands, giving us hugs, telling us how you really love us,” said linebacker Eric Striker in a In an interview at a protest Monday morning, Striker spoke of an “institutional breakdown when it comes to minority relations here at the university.”Students at big-time sports schools pay tens if not hundreds of thousands of dollars to live in an environment where they can both receive a first-rate education and indulge in a super-intense, super-fun fan culture. They pay extra for their season tickets. Typically, they operate in an entirely separate universe from the football and basketball players — except, of course, on gameday.At Oklahoma and elsewhere, it’s easy to see why many athletes feel like they exist on campus solely for the entertainment of the student body. That feeling can only be exacerbated 100-fold if you’re a black athlete on a predominantly black team at a predominantly white institution where racist chants are sung and Confederate flags In December, this frustration was voiced perfectly by University of Maryland wide receiver Deon Long, who held a sign at a Black Lives Matter protest that read: “Are we still thugs when you pay to watch us play sports?To some degree, this power dynamic between fans and athletes is inevitable in an NCAA system dependent on the exploitation of black labor. But that doesn’t mean its supporters — the students, the fans — cannot be more responsible in their fandom. Part of what’s both dangerous and powerful about sports-crazed campuses is the atmosphere of family and community centered around sports. When 82,000 people pack into Oklahoma Memorial Stadium to rally around a common goal, that’s a powerful thing. In those moments, Sooners fans care deeply about the players on the field.Imagine if the same level of support showered on Sooners football players after a big win were being showered on them now in a moment of deep anger and pain. Or imagine if 82,000 people banded together to demand that athletes be treated like campus employees and get paid what their labor is worth. Or imagine if the explosive energy felt inside a college basketball arena were harnessed to fight for college athletes’ right to unionize. The NCAA would disintegrate before our very eyes.Monday’s Journalist. Have written for MLB dot com, SI and the Boston Globe. Tufts Daily alum. Talker of sports and politics.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

Hi there!It’s been a while since we’ve sent out one of these letters, but on behalf of the entire staff, I am absolutely delighted to share the news that Since our launch in 2014, The Cauldron has experienced tremendous growth, and we expect that to continue in spades.Don’t worry, we will still be using Medium to curate and edit your terrific content, Thank you for your continuing support. The best is yet to come!Sincerely,Founder, Managing Editor of A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

Once upon a time, a little port city dreamed a dream. It was a dream of legends. Of fans cheering shoulder to shoulder in grand stadiums, of championships, of glory and ticker tape parades. Of national legitimacy for that little city by the bay. And the dream came to pass: the city of Oakland was blessed with the Raiders, the Athletics, and the Warriors. In time, each of them would bring home pennants and rings and trophies — and the fans rejoiced, because they saw that it was good.Now, all of those teams want to get the hell out.The likelihoods of the would-be escapes vary. Oakland probably won’t be a professional sports wasteland five years from now — indeed, two of its three teams are at least feigning a desire to stay — but it is a very real possibility, nonetheless.Locals know this is nothing new. Almost as long as there have been professional sports in Oakland, teams have been trying to leave. What follows is a brief look at the franchises that have come, gone, and (sometimes) returned, and the ones that have tried — with no success as of yet — to get away.If you build it, they will come. The question in Oakland is, will they stay?Any discussion of professional athletics in Oakland has to begin with the Coliseum. After the ceremonial groundbreaking in April of 1964, the Built for the newly minted Oakland Raiders, the Coliseum complex was used in short order to lure the Athletics away from Kansas City. Its sister arena, meanwhile, brought in an NHL team — the misbegotten Seals, but we’ll get there — followed by the Golden State Warriors. By 1971, the Big Four (professional football, baseball, hockey, and basketball) had all arrived.Today, the Coliseum proper — technically O.Co Coliseum, a name that is used about as widely and fondly as Gray Davis’s — is the only stadium actively used by both the NFL and MLB; the grounds crew dragging bleachers on and off the field for the weeks their seasons overlap. It is at once both too big and too small; small by the standards of modern NFL and MLB facilities, but also necessitating both the Raiders and the A’s cover huge swaths of seats with tarps (the former to artificially inflate attendance numbers to meet the quota for television broadcasting).It is also by and large a miserable place to watch a sporting event.You’ve seen, probably, the The sewage system has overflowed on three different occasions in just the past two years, flooding the locker rooms and dugouts with what Yahoo! Sports politely called “This is the place where Oakland currently tries to build its legends.The Bay’s original NHL team came to Oakland by way of San Francisco’s Western Hockey League franchise, landing at the Coliseum Arena (now Oracle) in time for the 1967 season.The team lasted just nine years. The Seals’ tenancy at the Coliseum was marked by a series of owners who seemed to quickly realize their mistake in taking on a bad hockey team in a town with no market for hockey, bad or otherwise. The most distinctive feature of each new owner was, with little exception, the swiftness and desperation of their attempts to sell the team to somebody else.The team was purchased by then–A’s owner Charles O. Finley in 1970, and things got weird — par for the course when dealing with the flamboyant and litigious Charlie O., who made his name in Kansas City off antics like bringing in bullpen pitchers on mules and building a sheep pasture in right field. Finley had only gotten the chance to acquire the Seals when a string of potential buyers fell through — including an offer from Labatt Brewing Company that would have moved the team to Vancouver. He dressed the Seals in the green and gold of the A’s and unpopular white skates, which the NHL president suggested would be better left to “girl fancy skaters.”The team adopted a local wood shop instructor named “Krazy” George Henderson as a sort of cheerleader-mascot. Henderson, the self-proclaimed inventor of the wave, spent Seals games racing through the empty stands, shrieking and banging a drum. When But the Seals, in fact, were not great. During their nine-year tenure in Oakland, they never finished above .500, ranking dead last in their division all but three years.The people of Oakland yawned; the stadium was rarely more than a third full. The team’s final owner, Fairmont Hotel heir Mel Swig, resolved to move the team back to San Francisco, but this, too, fell through, and he ended up cutting his losses and selling the team, which was moved to Cleveland.When Finley moved the Athletics to Oakland in 1968, fresh off several fractious years of wrangling with Kansas City officials, he made clear that it was for good by signing a 20-year lease at the just-opened Coliseum. Yet only a decade later, Finley was done, contemplating sending the team everywhere from New Orleans to Washington, DC.But there was a problem: Finley couldn’t just sell the team. Oakland officials had drawn up the Coliseum lease specifically to preclude Finley from buying out any remaining years, a condition that was constructed, in the words of the Coliseum’s general manager, to “protect the Coliseum and our community against the repetition of” what happened in Kansas City. (Namely, Finley skipping town with the team, and taking The prevailing wisdom at the time — influenced in no small part by Finley, who had one foot out the door — was that the Bay Area could sustain only one baseball team. As attendance dwindled at A’s and Giants games alike, Finley convinced the Giants that the two teams were both bound to fail while the other remained in the region. The Giants agreed to help get the A’s out of town.And oh, how the Giants wanted them gone. So badly, in fact, that in 1978 they pledged to soothe an A’s-less Oakland by playing half their home games at the Coliseum, dropping “San Francisco” from their name while playing on the other side of the bay.Finley eventually found a buyer in Marvin Davis, an oil baron who had recently purchased 20th Century Fox and swore he’d drag the Athletics off to Denver. There was just the tiny matter of Finley’s lease. The Coliseum Authority announced it would take $4 million to clear Finley’s debts from the books. So Finley and the Giants got every major league team to pledge $50,000 (equivalent to about $140,000 today) toward eliminating the Oakland franchise. The Giants would pay a further $1 million, and Davis would foot the last million himself.Alas, at the eleventh hour, two weeks before the start of a season when Davis said he was all but certain the Athletics would play Opening Day in Colorado, the sale crumbled. Finley was asked, as a condition of the transaction, to give up the right to sue Major League Baseball. He took this as a deep personal affront and refused, hanging on to the team for another two and a half years before selling it to Walter Haas, heir to the Levi Strauss fortune, who was content to call the Coliseum home.In the long history of maniacal sports franchise owners, Al Davis — the Raiders’ owner and GM from 1972 until his death in 2011 and the purple-faced id of the Coliseum; no relation to the would-be A’s owner — is perhaps the most extreme example.Davis began to dream of bigger and better things almost as soon as he grabbed hold of the Raiders’ reins. A sticking point came in the form of luxury suites, prizes for which Davis could charge exorbitant sums to those hoping to get a look at an ascendent Raiders squad. The Coliseum, with its brutalist sensibilities, had no such thing.In the early 1980s, Los Angeles, it just so happened, had a vacant stadium, newly forsaken by the Rams, and a desire to host NFL football once more. Oakland begged the team to stay. The city pledged $8 million toward improvements to the Coliseum, a sum that was deemed insufficient as Los Angeles upped its ante. A follow-up offer to Davis was chucked unread into the Coliseum parking lot and, in autumn of 1982, the team packed up and moved to Los Angeles.Not surprisingly, Davis proved impossible to placate: Oakland and the Raiders were discussing reunification just seven years after the move.Two things ultimately brought Davis and the Raiders back to the East Bay. The first was that the stadium in Los Angeles turned out not to be much nicer than Oakland’s and — horror — also lacked luxury suites.The second was Oakland throwing money around. In 1995, the team returned north in exchange for $220 million of Coliseum improvements. Most notable among these was the construction of what is now known as Mount Davis: a hulking monolith on the east side of the park that added 11,000 seats along with Davis’s pricey suites, blocking out the stadium’s view of the Oakland hills and at last entombing the stadium fully in concrete.It’s unfair, perhaps, to say that the Raiders are On the other hand, staying beyond 2015 is contingent on the City of Oakland funding and approving a new stadium complex. Coliseum City, they call it, and in the mockups, it remains spacious, glittering, developer-less, unfunded. Raiders rumors have included London, then San Antonio, then St. Louis, and, better yet, a return to Los Angeles, where the Raiders have plenty of fans left over from their 12-year sojourn. The Raiders are even willing, they say, to share a stadium with the Chargers there, if that’s what it takes to escape the Coliseum.Raider Nation cracks its knuckles and sighs.The A’s, meanwhile, would like dugouts that don’t fill with sewage. Ideally, they’d like them in San Jose, where Silicon Valley’s capital is eager to furnish them with “modern amenities,” a vibrant, upscale downtown, and self-driving cars, too, maybe. The Giants, of course, have dug in on this move, claiming San Jose falls within their territory — Finally, there’s the Warriors.Finally relevant, finally playoff-bound — now they, too, want to leave Oakland. The Dubs hope only to cross the bay and settle back into San Francisco, the city they called home until 1971. Warriors brass have made no secret of their pining to move back to the city, so resplendent now with tech money and tech-moneyed fans — fans they’ve been aggressively courting, hosting season ticket holder events in San Francisco instead of Oakland.The Warriors purchased Oakland hopes the team might change its mind. “We’re eager to accommodate the Warriors,” Oakland’s strategic planning manager The question is, are the Warriors willing to accommodate Oakland?But never has one metropolis hosted professional football, baseball, hockey, and basketball, and then watched every single team leave. Never have so many fans folded so many jerseys into so many bottom drawers. For a city purportedly in the midst of a renaissance, Oakland’s sporting fortunes certainly look bleak.It wouldn’t be the first time doubts have been cast on Oakland’s luck. In October 1967, when the Athletics’ move from Kansas City to Oakland was approved, Missouri Senator Stuart Symington announced on the Senate floor, “Oakland is the luckiest city since Hiroshima.”Fifty years after his time, the Senator may well be proven right.I make a mean poptart.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

This may be the last column I ever write.If it’s not the very last column I write, I’m surely nearing the end of my run as a published writer. Because robots.In case you missed it, the takeover has commenced. Robots already started writing The Associated Press has announced a A “logical move.” This is how we always knew the robot uprising would begin, when humans allowed those with the most “logic” to rule.The AP and Automated Insights (or AI — Hello! Artificial Intelligence anyone? They’re not trying to hide it!) insist that this will not put sportswriters out of work. Riiiiiight. Just like in all apocalyptic movies, the alien/robot invaders initially insist they come in peace. “Hey, we just want to be interstellar pals! Really!” Then, one scene later … EVERYONE IS DEAD. THERE’S FIRE EVERYWHERE!Robot writing creep is inevitable because, while at very same time Automated Insights and the AP are saying no sportswriters will lose their jobs, they’re gloating about how much better robots are at writing. The AP says it has has been able “to go from writing 300 reports to 3,000 [quarterly] reports each quarter, and many of those without any human intervention at all.” The robot articles also contain “far fewer errors,” despite being produced instantly after a game ends, while human stringers need at least 15 minutes to get their mistaken-laden prose out there.Traditional sports beat writers are doomed. That’s a fact. It starts this spring with Division I college baseball, but soon Major League Baseball, the NFL, NBA and NHL will have robot-written game stories, too. It’s not hard to program a ReportBot to ask questions like: “Are you disappointed in this loss?” and non-questions like: “Talk about [something that occurred in the game].” On the bright side, cliched questions will surely sound like auto-tuned Kanye songs.Traditional sportswriters are done. Over. The coding is on the wall.But the rest of us, the opinion makers, the hot take givers, the talking heads … we’re fine, right? No robot could do what we can, yes?No.We’re all doomed. Pick any prominent provider of sports hot takes. Keith Olbermann? Sure. He was just suspended by ESPN for replying to a Penn Stater’s link to the school raising $13 million for pediatric cancer research with “Pitiful.”Olbermann later said he didn’t open the link about the fundraising, and only replied “pitiful” because of Penn State continuing to put football above all else. Fine. Maybe it was an honest mistake. But a robot would But it’s not just that robot talking heads would be less prone to foolish mistakes, it’s that their takes would be Even the Skip Baylesses and Stephen A. Smiths of the world must occasionally have a twinge of doubt or a pang of conscience when they’re about to tear apart on national television the character of a person they’ve never met over his performance in a game. Why? Because they’re human. Somewhere inside, they still are.Robots, however, have no such consciences. No souls. No empathy. No humanity. No regret. Their cold takes would be devoid any such tomfoolery.Robots wouldn’t play favorites with players they know or root for. They wouldn’t pull punches. They couldn’t, if programmed correctly. Every take on every athlete, coach, team and fanbase would be bent on complete anesthetization. “First Take” with Skip Bayless and Stephen A. Smith would be trounced in the ratings by “Terabyte Takes” with SkipBot and StephenA.I.Doubt me? It’s already happening right in front of us.Pick up your phone. Type in “Flacco”. What does it try to auto-correct to? “Flaccid”, right? Now type in “Goodell”. Note that one of the auto-correct option is “Goodwill”. That means your phone — a fairly simple computer, and surely not a robot designed simply as a sports hot take delivery system — is already saying, without the slightest bit of hesitation, that Joe Flacco is weak and ineffective, while Roger Goodell simply has the best intentions in mind for everyone. Those are frigid takes that you take as fact because they came by the auto-correct on your phone. YOUR PHONE.Robots could even do sports humor better than humans. Think about it: there’s no better way to get yourself lots of LOLs and RTs than by posting a picture of Lance Stephenson blowing over someone, anyone, anyWe are helpless in the face of the coming robot onslaught. No sports media person will survive, from the humble beat writer to the most famous needle-moving opinion makers.It’s best to just give in now and let it happen. We stand no chance against them. Give up. Relent. And that’s me saying this, a human, not a robot. And totally not a human who was threatened and probed repeatedly by robots over the past week until I agreed to write this.Totally not that.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

To Whom It May Concern,I get it. Heck, we all get it. You’re an aging sports writer trying to stay relevant in the chaotic world of digital sports journalism. You have a publication to run, podcasts to record, appearances to make, deadlines to meet.You like your job, because it is easy and fun and makes you feel important. You have opinions on things and the world needs to hear them. Thousands of years from now, when humanity has brought about its own destruction via nuclear holocaust, and mutant motorcycle gangs roam across the wasteland searching for sustenance, the last remnants of our civilization will be to cue up your best podcast on Youtube. The last act of humanity will be a pageview.Your urge to comment is not unique to you, of course. It’s quite common for people to comment on things — oftentimes about things which they have little to no understanding. Having simple, unsubstantiated opinions on complex issues is about as American as watching pro wrestling or pretending to care about soccer every four years.You never Which is why it’s important that you take a moment out of your busy day to tell me why, exactly, it is that Jim Boeheim should resign as the coach of the Syracuse University men’s basketball team. Boeheim, as you know (right?), has been the Orange head coach for nearly 40 seasons. He has used his position and standing to help raise millions of dollars for cancer research, while providing hope to a region of the country that continues its seemingly hopeless uphill trudge against economic decline. The man is an institution, universally respected by his peers and the countless student athletes who have played for him.But none of that matters, I guess. When it’s time for you to drag an old man’s name through the mud to bolster your career, well … it’s time. Those links ain’t gonna click themselves, right?Leading the #HotTake charge have been Grantland.com and its Editor-in-Chief, Bill Simmons. On Colin Cowherd’s radio show last week, Simmons argued that “if people underneath you or around you are doing things that are illegal… then you shouldn’t be running the program, anyway.” Simmons went on to flap his gums further, shaming Boeheim for announcing his retirement in three years time, rather than immediately. And when Dick Vitale had the gall to show up at a fundraiser for his old friend, Boeheim? Simmons let Has Simmons been a one-man #HotTake army, though? Of course not!As with any overblown sports fiasco, this thing isn’t dead until everyone’s had their flogs. Now, I don’t really care to go down that road again. I’m well aware that my school did things it shouldn’t have done, and that much of the responsibility for those transgressions falls upon the shoulders of the team’s coach. What’s gone on at my alma mater this month is much like the first glimpse of yourself in the mirror after the holiday season. It’s tough to accept, but there’s nothing to be gained from denial: you can only accept the consequences of your actions and try to do better next time.So please, understand this: I’m not suggesting that Boeheim should be completely exonerated of wrong doing. But, at a minimum, he should be afforded the opportunity to appeal the rulings against him, right? He isn’t asking for special treatment, and neither is Syracuse. He has every right to state publicly and unequivocally that the NCAA’s punishments are unjust. He might be Wrong in your eyes, but his right to free speech remains unfettered.Simply put, standing up for oneself and pushing back to establish proportionality is not remotely the same thing as an outright denial or a failure to take responsibility.Ultimately, I am at a loss as to why an entity which gleefully scoops up every opportunity to rip the NCAA would would be so against a coach who’s actively and openly refusing to abide by the NCAA’s bullshit. I’m confused as to how Coach Boeheim is obviously not Joe Paterno, but there are some parallels to be drawn with respect to the fervent loyalists to both men at Penn State and Syracuse. I realize that I, like most of my fellow ‘Cuse disciples, will never possess an unbiased perspective about anything associated with the school’s basketball program, or its coach. We So in my quest to be a “good” sports writer, I hereby accept any and all opinions I may have as fact, and I pledge to be as resistant to change as I can. For example, it’s The beautiful thing about sports journalism is that I don’t really need any proof, or even anecdotal evidence, to say that I think the NCAA was engineered by the Illuminati. I could say that I think Mark Emmert is a just a bunch of cats stacked one on top of the other wearing a trench coat. Ooh, let’s talk about how Emmert may or may not have his body cloned and suspended in a cryogenic chamber for his own organ harvesting purposes. I’m allowed to have whatever asinine opinions I want — assuming I can present them in a pretty enough manner as to entice sports fans to read them.By choosing to write what is just a long-winded explanation of an opinion, we sports writers can really just jot down whatever we want and say “well, that’s just my opinion” when people disagree. By this infalliable logic, of course, I can’t be held accountable for saying things like “Pat Forde’s head is the size of a ripe, hormone injected watermelon” or “Bill Simmons has the tiny, bound feet of a young Chinese woman living during the Song Dynasty.”Opinions don’t have to be right, they just need to get attention.In the end, the only facts we need to have straight about anything? The acknowledgement that our “facts” are just semi-informed opinions masquerading as facts. Then we’re free to say whatever we want without the consequences of being wrong. (Actually, you already know all this.) So thanks for showing me the way, guys. Maybe if I keep it up, I may develop the special kind of reckless ignorance that will help me become the next … you.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

During the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, Brazilian soccer fans turned Twitter upside down with the “Cala a boca, Galvão” campaign. The entire thing was born from an irate reaction to one specific man:. Galvão Bueno, the most famous, most hated sports announcer in all of Brazil.When “Cala a Boca, Galvão” became a worldwide trending topic on Twitter, people all over the planet were intrigued. Just what did the curious, foreign phrase mean? An enterprising Brazilian troll earnestly jumped in to quench the global thirst for knowledge; it was a campaign to save a rare species of bird called the Galvão, he said, and “Cala a boca” meant something along the lines of “help save.”Five seconds of Googling would have told anyone that this guy was full of shit, of course. “Cala a boca” translates literally to “shut your mouth,” and it is every bit as linguistically common as the English equivalent, “shut up.” Almost inexplicably, nobody bothered to look it up or correct the situation.Emboldened by social media’s inherent ability to foment gullibility, the trolls took it a step further. The campaign got its own website and Twitter account. Someone even made a YouTube video:Galvão is, of course, not a bird. As one of the squawkiest members of the human race, though, you could be mistaken if you confused him for one. You know that thing where soccer announcers attempts to break volume and duration records with his scream of …Yeah, Galvão was the originator of that trend — and Brazil has never forgiven him for it.Here’s a video (in Portuguese) of Nelson Piquet, a three-time Formula 1 champion, saying that Galvão Bueno should keep his mouth shut during the races “since he doesn’t understand shit”.Galvão has never (at least publicly) bothered to answer to his critics/haters. And his employer — Rede Globo, Brazil’s largest TV company — has apparently never bothered debating his merits. Could its position as a market leader could be threatened by the fact the public has long been fed up with Galvão? The topic’s never come up, even though the broadcaster has made some pretty big missteps throughout the years.In the video below (also in Portuguese), Galvão tells the director that he’s angry over the favor shown towards Pelé during the broadcasting of the 1994 World Cup in the United States.Still, Galvão endures as Globo’s number one commentator. Despite countless on-air mistakes, despite all of the weird stuff he says during broadcasts (without even having any technical knowledge, as Piquet stressed in the video above), What’s worse, many young announcers looking to establish themselves in the business try to mirror him; they’re too naive to realize that Galvão’s standing has less to do with merit than it does with some presumed behind-the-scenes element. His flaws have become such a part of the culture — like constantly assuming that you know what a player is thinking, or focusing almost exclusively on the Brazilian side during international matches — that they are ubiquitous among all Brazilian sportscasters, not just the ones who try to ape his style.This is a trend that has become a movement. Maybe today’s announcers feel the need to fill some void of entertainment. Maybe I’ve become more utilitarian. But nowadays, I find myself getting annoyed with the announcers so often, I just put the television on mute.Surely, during the radio years, the announcer’s words were a way for you to “see” the match if you weren’t in the stadium. And later, when TV transmissions had no color or definition, they helped paint a much clearer picture. Back then, analysts had data that you couldn’t dream of, and reporters had exclusive access. But today, they’re just passing along something read an hour earlier on Twitter.All of which begs the question: Do we even need the announcers to enjoy sports anymore? I don’t know about anyone else, but I can understand what’s going on when I’m watching the game just fine. Historically, sportscasters have (occasionally) helped me to understand rule changes at the start of a season or clarified things when I started watching a sport that was new to me, but we have the Internet for those kinds of inquiries now.The booth also tends to facilitate too many cooks spoiling the broth. Here in Brazil, there is a dedicated refereeing analyst during soccer games, and I’m apparently the only one who thinks this is mental. Why is he the only one qualified to talk about the referees, or the rules? The other guys in the booth understand these things just fine — and if not, they’ve got no business calling the game in the first place. The entire thing is clearly a giant racket to create gainful employment for famous referees of the past that nobody cares about anymore.And then there are the sideline reporters, constantly interrupting the broadcast to pipe in some inane fact that would eventually make itself apparent without their efforts. “There’s a substitute warming up on the sideline.” You don’t say? When he’s announced as a substitute, I will care. Until that happens, he cannot impact the game, and I don’t need to know about him. Even if the manager is playing mind games with his counterpart, I’m smart enough to deduce this without an extra mouth relaying the message.Of course, there is also the endless parade of round-the-clock shows featuring talking heads discussing events that, if you actually cared about, you’d have just watched on that same channel. It’s a topic that Bill Burr recently talked about on his podcast, making the argument that we need sports media with Here’s a proposal for a new role for sportscasters in the Information Age. Before each match, provide the viewers with a short report on everything that changed during the week, including any injuries, suspensions, transfer rumors, new sponsorship deals, business-end stuff, and player interviews — in that order of importance. We fans can skim that content and be ready to watch the match, without having to tolerate hearing things we already know or don’t care about. Put the ads on a small corner of the screen and we will pretend that they register in our brains, just like always.Then, let us watch the games in peace.Overthinker. Professional information finder/organizer. Homo sapiens, allegedly. Blogs at A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

Individually, every sport has its vices. There’s more than enough corruption, greed, violence, doping, exploitation, cheating, arrogance, and discrimination to go around. Some of these problems have simple solutions. College athletes deserve to be paid; pros deserve the same rights as any other group of unionized workers. Others are not so straightforward. You’ll tie your brain in knots trying to imagine football minus brutality or soccer without vagary.We should never turn a blind eye to what’s wrong with football, basketball, hockey, soccer, cricket, cycling, or any other organized sport. But some sports have more issues than others, and as mentioned above, some of these are more easily addressed (or stomached). If we don’t draw these distinctions, we’re standing in the way of real conversation or solutions.I fully get that some people just don’t care for organized athletics. It’s a leap, though, to go from general dislike to outright condemnation. There’s a common — if faulty — assumption that the ills of one sport automatically implicate every other one.I’ve never heard anyone suggest that basketball causes head trauma or that figure skaters are overpaid. But there’s a prevailing sense that at some point, all sports bleed into each other. And it’s not just critics who are guilty of this lazy rhetorical move. Anyone celebrating the glory of sports can easily fall into the trap. It’s the way we’re used to talking about sports. And it’s not doing them or us any favors.I think I know why this generalizing about sports happens: There are sports and then there’s SPORTS, a cultural monolith jam-packed with moralized clichés. It reinforces all sorts of unsavory socio-cultural practices. It’s the worst kind of influence on impressionable minds, and a sinister way of justifying or excusing bad behavior. We use sports metaphors in daily life not because we love sports that much but as shorthand for the attitudes we project onto them. We’re encouraged to lump all sports by this overarching power that’s been assigned to them.For every person who rails against SPORTS, there’s someone who embraces it. “I like sports” makes about as much sense as “I like music.” It’s a bit of polite conversation that’s forgotten as soon as it’s uttered. There’s a common thread that runs through all athletic pursuits, in the same way that artists, novelists, and musicians share some traits. But if we fail to appreciate every sport on its own terms we run the risk of lazy, top-down thinking. It’s the difference between falling in love and falling in love with love. One is real, the other imagined. One is an experience, the other a self-serving fantasy.Whether you love or hate SPORTS, propping it up does more harm than good. It’s at once a straw man and a false idol. We can #bansports without saying there’s everything (or nothing) wrong with them. SPORTS isn’t a sickness, it’s a symptom. At the same, as an ideal it ultimately dissolves into thin air or distracts us from what’s right under our noses. If both are dead ends, we owe it to ourselves to learn how to change course.Founding member of FreeDarko.com. Public nuisance The story you’ve been missing.

It’s a quote we’ve heard time and time again, usually when players are traded or sign free agent deals in new cities. I often wonder, however, how such a canned response would sound when delivered many years after the player’s career has ended, when he’s struggling to deal with the residual effects of long-term physical neglect and misappropriation of healthcare protocols.We’ve seen everything from players struggling to maintain health after retirement (and the resultant, still unsettled scandal in the NFL), to young players like the San Francisco 49ers’ Chris Borland walk away from the game at age 24 because of concerns over his long-term safety.Bottom line, professional sports A good business crunches numbers and maximizes output, while In a perfect world, if teams could guarantee both a higher rate of player production I have been practicing Eastern medicine for over 15 years. I have worked with professional athletes, and know what is expected from them and those entrusted with their medical well-being. I have also dedicated much of my career to maximizing the physical potential of those suffering from the most severe physical detriments — those paralyzed by a spinal cord injury. And I know from experience that when dealing with a physiological system functioning at sub-optimal levels, it is imperative to figure out how to maximize nerve innervation, circulation and mechanical output to foster legitimate rehabilitation from primary and secondary injuries.To that end, I helped develop a program that seamlessly integrates Acupuncture, Massage, Yoga, Chiropractic, and other specialized training into a unified approach to promotes physical enhancement — including the implementation of stem cells for rehabilitative efforts. The program is specifically designed to prepare the body for stem cell injections before they begin to repair injuries and promote optimal function.Putting my program into practice, I always collaborated with teams of Western doctors in order to navigate the total healthcare process. I know firsthand that a marriage of two medical approaches can work.Not only does it work, actually, it It is simply a matter of proper implementation and respect for each approach. In a time when many athletes are turning to alternative means to ensure their health, optimal recovery, and performance enhancement, teams would be wise to create a comprehensive umbrella that integrates the best that science has to offer, and maintains a realistic economic bottom line for the provider.As an athlete myself, I have always challenged my body to accomplish the unthinkable. I marvel at any athlete performing at the top of their game. We all want the same thing — to witness greatness. The questions are, at what cost, and are there things we can and should be exploring to achieve far better results with far more inclusive methods of patient care?Historically, in an effort to squeeze every last drop of value out of a player, teams have shown a willingness to do whatever is necessary to keep their investments in peak form and, hopefully, on the field. The concept is solid, but the means to the end straddle the line between ignorance and abuse.The reality is that when the means for keeping players on the field in peak form are rooted in overriding function, critical care, and invasive intervention, players’ bodies will inevitably fail. In essence, just because a bandaid stops the proverbial bleeding, doesn’t mean the wound has healed enough to withstand further strain — especially the strain induced at the professional level.We all know professional athletes are driven to the absolute limits of their physical potential — that comes with the territory — but the situation would be less risky if the professional sports world availed itself of the full spectrum of healthcare — including alternative therapies and Eastern medicine — in its never-ending quest to maximize return on player investment.If teams truly want to maximize player production and minimize costs, it is time for them to consider redefining Simply put, the current, traditional medical system in pro sports lacks the full-spectrum approach that is required to seamlessly address each and every aspect of players’ health needs. Instead, for teams to create an environment that fosters peak physical production by players, This includes five key components:Chinese medicine, which takes a more holistic view of a person’s physical and mental condition, Contrary to common misconception, the two approaches are not disparate, and can work together towards the same goals: the optimization of physical capability, the enhancement of on-field performance, and the rehabilitation from injury as quickly as possible without compromising long-term health or future potential.Western Medicine is designed primarily to tend to critical care situations; to override physiology, stabilize pathology and ensure that our bodies continue to perform their necessary functions. It is not, however, designed to promote the reintegration and independence of our body’s normal physiology. This is acceptable over the short-term, but once a condition has been stabilized via surgery, pharmaceuticals or other procedures, it becomes critical to stimulate the body’s very real internal ability to heal and regain optimal function.The all-too-familiar pain-reduction model in sports medicine today does the exact opposite, throwing drugs at injured players to mollify their condition. Just ask former NFL lineman Mark Schlereth It is not the fault of Western medicine that it is being abused in professional sports. It is the only show in town; one equipped with a far too narrow spectrum of tools for tending to To this point, no professional team has taken a leap to establish a fully comprehensive and integrative approach to address their players’ performance needs. We needn’t fully abandon the current approach but we do need to explore how to fill in the gaps, beef up existing protocols, and allow dual approaches to be deployed.Creating an integrated East-meets-West approach to maximizing athletic output Currently, teams’ efforts in the advancement of strength and conditioning of their players has been aimed at streamlining training protocols, pushing the limits of supplement allowance, and taking advantage of cutting-edge surgical techniques. An increased focus on sports nutrition has also evolved in recent years as a means to fill in gaps, aid in the prevention of injuries, and optimize recovery time.And while there has been growing interest and a (slow) movement towards implementation of alternative therapies, no organization has thus far considered a full-scale integration.That is not to say professional teams are not beginning to piece together some extremely worthwhile approaches to fill in those gaps. They have begun employing platelet rich plasma therapy to promote more efficient post-injury and surgery healing. Players have been seeking out stem cell therapy to boost recovery efforts as well. These are great additions to the medical approach for performance enhancement and rehabilitation optimization.So what, exactly, does the full scope of Chinese medicine include?Chinese medicine consists of Acupuncture, herbal medicine, Massage, Nutrition, Qi Gong/martial arts, and lifestyle habits. Each component of this ancient medicine has been an integral part of an overall comprehensive approach towards encouraging a thriving and healthy population.The Eastern system was built from the ground up; each component seamlessly and synergistically connected to one another. Because the Western medical approach is rooted in critical care intervention, it is built from the top-down, and as such, there is no natural progression of care to follow.Even now, when attempts are made at incorporating more natural rehabilitation therapies (including nutrition, massage, acupuncture, meditation, etc.), they are implemented in a piecemeal manner, isolated from their intended and comprehensive approach.The most critical aspects of performance optimization are the base components of nutrition and maintaining a balanced lifestyle. When we fall out of balance, and function is lost, we lose the foundation from which we thrive.Eastern medicine offers treatments aimed at fixing those issues and restoring optimal function. And when function completely breaks down or situations turn critical, the practice is able to stabilize conditions and work side by side with more invasive approaches in order to minimize injury, optimize rehabilitation, and help restore a world-class caliber athlete’s performance to pre-injury levels.It is ok, even optimal, for a healthcare team to be comprised of many different specialists. However, in order to maximize benefits for a patient, there needs to be a unifying system that not only allows for each approach, but also integrates the therapies so that they can work in harmony.It is time to fuse today’s medicine (Western ) with the wisdom and techniques of its battle-tested and ancient medical counterpart (Eastern). It is time to blaze a new trail towards maximizing athletic enhancement and productivity.With the crackdown in use of performance enhancing drugs, the lines for maximizing human athletic performance have been drawn. In order to stay on the cutting edge, we need to work within a structure that allows for maximum healing and enhancement. Instead of looking for pieces to add to the puzzle, we must change the paradigm, and create a comprehensive template to improve players’ health and promote optimal performance.There is an answer that can work within the current system, an answer that may inject some humanity back into the business-first sports industry. It is time for a new paradigm in sports medicine — one that not only maximizes on-field production, but also ensures the long-term health of Licensed Acupuncturist, Chinese herbalist, Certified Life Coach: with an unhealthy obsession for helping people optimize their health (on all levels)A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

Let’s get one thing straight right off the top: One has to work With Woods, we are talking about a man whose pristine public image went into utter free fall Our willingness to believe just about anything when it comes to Tiger is probably the reason why journeyman golfer Dan Olsen was able to start a small brushfire The statement In the end, Except here’s the thing, Mr. Olsen … you’re allowed to have an “opinion” on Tiger’s swing coach, his putting stance, or whether he should have carried a 9-iron is his bag, but going on the radio, in this day and age, and claiming you had “a strong witness, a credible person who is telling me this,” well, that goes well beyond “opinion.”To quote Then again, perhaps we should cut the esteemed Mr. Olsen some slack. After all, irresponsibly trafficking in unsubstantiated rumors is pretty much how the media rolls these these days, anyway. Look no further than last week, when, for days on end, one of the biggest stories in sports surrounded the purported existence of a video that, as far as anyone knows, may or may not even exist. Yes, the so-called “Dez Bryant Tape” (So, what do we know about the tape that might shape the future of Bryant’s career? Well, we know it contains … (Although how much is $13 Million to Jerry Jones, really? The Cowboys owner probably spends that much on Rockwell paintings. Is it all a little bit absurd? Undoubtedly. But make no mistake, #DezGate is no laughing matter. It’s entirely possible that all of this amounts to more than just a rumor, and that at some point in the near future, Bryant will be forced to explain … Sadly, this is well-trodden territory. From a Perhaps that’s why — with no evidence of wrongdoing, with no sign of this mythical tape actually going public — one can’t help but sympathize with Bryant. Here he is, at a critical moment in his career, locked in negotiations for a major contract, faced with the impossible task of trying to prove a negative.What if the tape does Bryant is but another in a long line of examples of an athlete caught in the middle of a cesspool of corrosive elements drowning our sports culture. He must reckon with our collective tendency to assume the worst, to convict without evidence, and to let our dialog be overrun by speculation, gossip, and the wildest of conspiracy theories.The state of affairs becomes even more troubling when you consider that NFL leadership has shown time and time again It’s 2015, and if you reside in the world where sports meets internet, this is the way we live now. Everybody’s on the lookout for the next “scoop” or “take” even if there is no actual “news” present.Parroting the absurd ramblings of golfer nobody’s ever heard of or passing along the latest scuttlebutt about a tape that might derail a man’s career are just the examples of the day. We don’t go so far as to hold these rumors out as facts, we just talk about them as if they are — and that blurs the line between what is real, and what is ratings-driven fodder.Those who fancy themselves reporters and journalists should reconsider the impact of their words. They should better respect the power and influence of their collective platforms. They should consider the damage that can be done when the shakiest of stories is given an air of legitimacy.Of course, I’m not saying any of that is true, mind you. It’s just my opinion. At a bare minimum, I want to give us all something to talk about.Writer/Producer for Fox Sports, The Cauldron, Vice Sports, Fansided. Love my family, my friends, my Mets, and my Jambands. A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

Crisp air, orange leaves, and weekends full of football — fall is an exciting time for sports fans everywhere. But this autumn is particularly thrilling here at We are proud to Along with Chat Sports-powered content across SI.com, we will in turn feature SI.com, Fansided.com, and Golf.com articles on both the Chat Sports website and “Chat Sports is a hot young company, and we’re thrilled to be working with it,” explained SI Digital GM Patty Hirsch. “Working with Chat Sports naturally syncs with our strategy to diversify the SI Digital network.” We’re equally elated to kick off this exciting partnership with the Time Inc.  Sports Illustrated Family.We are honored to unite the The partnership launched with an exclusive The Minds Behind the Game SB50 series continues into 2016, travelling to Dallas, TX and then returning to San Francisco to feature the technology and brand partners behind the Silicon Valley Super Bowl. It will culminate with a historic meeting of the owners of AFC and NFC championship teams in the week leading up to February 7, 2016.Personalized sports news from thousands of sources in one social feed. Download the five-star rated iPhone app now: 

I’m a sports fan. Baseball, football, basketball, soccer, I’ll watch any of it. And I basically live for hockey season. But I’m here to tell you that sports are terrible and no one should watch them. No one should subject themselves to the absolute despair one feels when their team loses a big game. No one should have to go through the arduous process of sitting through a terrible season. No one should voluntarily put their heart and loyalty into something that is going to break your heart and possibly make you cry.Oh, sure, being a sports fan can be good. There are winning seasons and championships and well played games. There’s exaltation and heart swelling pride and tears of joy. But only one team in each sport can be champion in a season, so that leaves a lot of room for dejection and sadness. Sports is a losing proposition, mostly, and because we come to identify with our favorite teams as if they were part of us, as if we are part of them, we feel each loss on a personal level. When we say “Sports are terrible in other ways. We make heroes of our favorite players and sometimes they let us down. The leagues make decisions that force us to rethink our devotion. Off field incidents cause us concern. Sometimes on field incidents do as well.Yet we watch. We got to games, we watch and listen, we wear the jerseys and buy the tv packages and watch Sportscenter until our eyes bleed. We check the boxscores and league standings and we do the math in our head to see how many days it is until our team is eliminated and we begin the process of feeling that connected loss all over again.We subject ourselves to this. We do it willingly. We accept the defeats as part of being a sports fan, but acceptance doesn’t make them any more palatable. We stare at the final score as if it couldn’t be real, our team didn’t let us down again, did they? We put the jerseys away, we swear off the team, the league, sports in general, but that only last days until we’re in front of the tv again, cursing, screaming, shaking our heads. Our hearts will break. Our souls will hurt. We may cry. And we’ll do it all again and again because we’re stupidly devoted to this extension of ourselves that is our favorite sports team.Isn’t being a sports fan great?No, it’s actually terrible.Former music contributor at Forbes, freelance writer published in The Magazine, Maura Magazine and at Boing Boing 

For the past two NFL seasons we have run an office fantasy league with the team at Take the From this experience, it has become clear that for a growing number of people fantasy sports can become a popular activity, not for the game itself, but because it is a platform for a shared social experience.This experience is not unique to our team. More and more coworkers, family members and friends being introduced to fantasy sports every year by the dedicated fantasy players they know.For this type of newcomer, the appeal in the game differs from the traditional fantasy sports participant. Typically they are not coming into the game because they are sports fans, instead there is an additional layer on top of the game that is more appealing for them.While the competition, stat tracking, and smack talking is relevant, that is not the focus. Fantasy is a way to have a shared interest, hobby and topic of conversation. It is a way to make the experience of watching the game itself a social one.Fantasy sports platforms are pushing to grow their audiences and capture a bigger piece of the ever-growing revenue the industry is seeing. To achieve this, they are looking to evolve their fantasy sports products to attract more new participants with:Looking at the Heist Football League as a customer research group of 12, there are a couple of needs that have emerged for social fantasy sports participants that are currently being unmet by the products available:When OBJ made ‘the catch’, almost everyone in our league ran to their phones or Slack to share their ‘holy shit!’ and ‘can you believe it?’ There are dozens of these moments that take place each week, and this conversation is where social players get the most value out of the fantasy game.Within minutes after ‘the catch’, it became clear that the most important aspect of that play was the look on the sideline photographer’s face as he was too busy gawking to capture the shot of a lifetime. Scouring Reddit and Twitter to find and share memes, GIFs and jokes about this poor guy quickly overshadowed the game itself, both on-field and in fantasy.But that was okay, because that is the purpose of playing fantasy sport for us. It is a platform to have fun, get some laughs, and most importantly, share the experience.Unfortunately, all of this conversation is happening outside of the fantasy products we use, because they are not designed in a way that is easy or appealing for the social player to do so.As fantasy sports platforms continue to search for new audiences, the design of the products must evolve to meet the needs of customers who have different needs from their experiences.While existing fantasy sports products are being used as platforms for new players looking for a social experience, the user experience in these products needs an additional layer in order to foster, support and grow that experience for social players.If you want to chat more about this, I’m game. Drop me a line Trying to bring design and sports analytics together. Founded Pieces written by the crew at Heist

the most important sports takes

For the past I’m part of the latter group.Livestreaming isn’t new. Video content isn’t new. What With mobile apps giving anyone the ability to act like a potential live reporter, and users capable of covering every possible angle of every moment, we’re more tuned in we’ve ever been. Snapchat, Vine, and Periscope allow brands and journalists keep their viewers updated instantly, opening up channels to connect faster with shorter, more consumable content.In the post-poster era, Vine has become the unofficial highlight app of sports. Vine’s early addition to the visual social landscape and integration with Twitter combine to make it a seamless way for users to engage — both on Twitter during live gameplay, and on Vine as its own platform. It’s consumable everywhere and easily embedded in stories, whether the source is the With the success of Vine, mobile and social video took off. Teams and athletes alike have started creating more original content that can live on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube, but that wasn’t fast enough for us. For fans, it’s not always about what’s For sports, Snapchat works best for exclusive, behind the scenes content. The autographs, the practices, the crazy shoes, the stuff that doesn’t make it to television. With GeoFilters, fans become part of a community and share content amongst their friends with limitless free adspend.The demand shows that viewers crave this authenticity. Content for TV, YouTube, and even Vine, can be over-produced, planned, and edited — and it’s obvious. Because of this, brands and teams that push content via Snapchat are more memorable even though, in a sense, it’s just an advertisement. Even still, I’m more likely to say: “You have to check out NBA’s Snapchat Story today, it’s awesome,” than forward a studio-quality Instagram video.Snapchat introduced viewers to sharing their perspectives and consuming content from strangers — and sponsors — through Our Story. Once we got used to the low quality, we got addicted to the urgency. Periscope and Meerkat take Our Story one step further. Where Meerkat went wrong with me was the discoverability. Like Snapchat allows us to see events from all over the world, Periscope has a much smoother UX and discoverability within the app, and users can consume much more than they could when “everything happens on Twitter.” It will be interesting to see how the enterprising athlete or franchise uses these groundbreaking new tools over the coming months and years. Here’s a few examples:Professional, high quality video won’t go away, and it certainly won’t be replaced by live, pixelated streams. We won’t be watching entire games streamed on Periscope and Meerkat. Broadcasting this way can’t, and shouldn’t be pitted against YouTube and Facebook (targeted ads, clear ROI), because it’s a different form of content entirely. These produced videos aren’t as disposable as the auxiliary content living the disposable platforms, the Snapchats and Periscopes and whatever will be next. Some may disagree that they “change the world” or “change the internet,” but an entire movement is unfolding on our mobile devices during every live event, and it’s getting too big to ignore.Community Manager/Copywriter A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

the most important sports takes

The NBA made history last night. Not only did the Golden State Warriors receive their 2015 championship rings, but their opening game vs. the New Orleans Pelicans was Experimenting with VR since 2013, the NBA just delivered the first live broadcast of a professional sports game in virtual reality. Los Angeles-based company This was a spectacular success for NextVR: The Even if you lived 1,000 miles away from the opening night Warriors vs. Pelicans game, as long as you had a Samsung Gear VR headset and lived somewhere in the US, you could virtually appreciate all of Steph Curry’s swagger as he accepted his MVP award.Instead of watching sports on TV, virtual reality will enable us to experience the action viscerally as participants. We’ll be able to fly through the air with an Olympic gymnast, wipe out on a gnarly Virtual reality does not merely deliver a video depiction of sports, it serves up the ambience as well. You are in the action; you are part of the crowd. Sports are emotional experiences for many (see the hordes of war-painted rabid fans for reference), and virtual reality is at its essence a In addition to supercharging the emotional connection between fan and sport, virtual reality also increases the accessibility of live events. Physically attending a sporting event is prohibitive to many: it takes time, energy, and is expensive. Most fans Virtual as well as augmented reality open up entirely new worlds with which fans will engage more deeply with teams, players, franchises, venues, and brands. Effective advertising is at its core an emotional venture, and VR is a highly emotive medium. When we are inside a virtual environment, we feel that we’ve actually been to that place. Behind-the-scenes content like halftime pep talks, locker room interviews, and virtual live streams of practices will enable superfans to step inside the sports world. Take another basketball example: this season, Indiana University has added 5 Samsung Gear headsets to Assembly Hall during games, where Fans will be able to connect with sports in a richer, more impactful way. To take the passive consumption of a live event a step further, empowering fans to affect certain virtual experiences provides more opportunities for fans to profoundly connect.Virtually injecting the Fan into a sports scenario, allowing them to affect the reality and outcome of the scene, expands the Fan’s role and increases the Fan’s importance. The media becomes thoroughly participatory, and the Fan becomes Creator. However, this blurring of reality and fantasy between competition and pixels is not new…E-sports is a big industry: in 2017 it is In fact, a trend seems to be developing as traditional sports media C-levels have converted to the emerging e-sports world, taking their cue from real life sports revenue models: advertising, licensing, merchandising, sponsorships, and ticket sales.This deep commitment to competitive video gaming will grow exponentially with the mass adoption of virtual reality video games. Imagine when these rich environments become even more real, immersive, and emotionally engaging. Adding virtual reality components to e-sports tournaments and events will not only achieve more revenue but will achieve more converts.VR is not just limited to fans and gamers. Real athletes are utilizing it in powerful ways to enhance training. 360 video cameras, placed at strategic points around the practice field, capture the live action and players and coaches can later step into the experience via immersive 360 video. The enormous time commitment required by passive tape watching has become exponentially more effective: The quarterback can re-experience his offensive line collapse to better know why and exactly when it collapsed; he can also virtually relive perfect completed passes over and over again. The STRIVR system allows players to add many more mental repetitions to their arsenal, without the wear and tear of physical repetitions.A handful of NFL teams and college football teams are using the STRIVR system in the 2015 season. By the end of the season STRIVR founder and CEO Derek Belch predicts that 8–10 total NFL teams will have adopted the technology into their training.Rookies and new coaches will have their learning curves shortened when the playbook X’s and O’s come to life, backup players will get more mental reps and expand their point-of-view and scheme comprehension, and officials could even have the STRIVR system implemented into their training and education.Although football has been the first sport to embrace the STRIVR technology, Live sporting events will be able to virtually increase their attendance, franchises will continue to bring rich engagement opportunities for fans, the growing e-sports industry will broaden and deepen, and real life athletes will continue to enhance their real life training with VR.The magic of virtual reality will continue expanding in the exciting world of sports: it could be a match made in heaven.Be kind, eat good food, drink good wine. Storyteller currently exploring virtual reality  live streaming. Futurist meditating in the present moment: 

Every athlete, no matter what level of expertise, has imagined hitting the perfect serve, making the perfect basket, or sending the ball sailing past the goalie into the net. These mental scenarios are definitely satisfying — but what if they could actually improve your performance on the field? Research on visualization suggests that this just might be the case.Visualization, also known as mental imagery, is a cognitive technique that involves creating a detailed mental picture of your desired action. For example, a tennis player might picture herself on the court, throwing the tennis ball high into the air and swinging her racquet so it makes contact with the ball in a perfect ace. The more detail included in the mental image — the weight of the racquet in your hand, the trajectory of the ball — the better.So AThen, the players were split into two groups, an experimental and control group. The experimental group were instructed to visualize the drill during three separate sessions over six weeks, creating mental images of themselves successfully dribbling and shooting the ball. The control group were instructed to write down a detailed plan of how to best approach the soccer drill, but were not instructed to use visualization techniques.At the end of the study, both beginners and varsity players in the experimental group showed improvement on the soccer drill. Not only could they perform the drill better than they had at the beginning of the study, they also performed significantly better than the players in the control group.Another Evidence of the power of visualization isn’t limited to researchers. Olympic freestyle skier and gold medalist Jennifer HeilSo next time, before lacing up your sneakers or heading out onto the slopes, take a few minutes to imagine yourself performing exactly how you want to — and you’ll be one step closer to making it a reality.Try it yourself:Click Enjoy becoming better every day.The place to find the latest news, tips and tricks to do with mental wellbeing and brain health.

The San Diego Chargers logo is more than a lightning bolt. Its trademark arc shape is modeled after the mustaches worn by iconic Chargers Dan Fouts and Kellen Winslow.The classic Brewers logo is a baseball mitt holding a baseball, correct? Yes. But look closer. The glove is actually made out of a “b” and an “m”.The B is for “barley” and the M is for “malted.” Malted barley is what makes beer — absolutely perfect for a team called the Brewers! So genius.There are 17 suspension wires visible in Golden State’s logo and 2 bridge towers for a grand total of 19 vertical lines.The 19 is in honor of former Warriors swingman Devean George, who wore No. 19.At first glance, the Cleveland Browns logo is the most boring in sport. It’s just the team helmet. But investigation shows it is perhaps the greatest logo of all.If you turn the logo upside-down, you see a hidden image the designer included: the stunned and horrified face every Browns fan makes while watching the Browns.You’ll never look at the Browns logo the same way again.The Lions logo is up on two legs to honor all the past Detroit players who fought, bled and cried during the franchise’s many 2-win seasons.The gun-wielding man in the New Mexico State Aggies logo is supposed to be intimidating. But is he really? Look where his pistols are aimed. Downward and away from you. He’s not going to hurt you. He’s simply going to execute a small child standing to your immediate right. Nothing to worry about.This grinning, cartoonish depiction of a Native American called “Chief Wahoo” is a logo for a baseball team. But look closer. See it? Yes, it’s also super-racist.It’s plain to see that the Blue Jackets logo is a star wrapped in a red, white and blue flag. That Stars are the hottest things ever created. Putting a flag this close to a star would set the flag aflame. The Blue Jackets logo depicts flag burning. Despicable, really.the most important sports takes

What’s it like to be a woman with a press pass, a microphone and a Twitter account? Three Marquette University graduates share their experiences.It hasn’t been a good couple of weeks for the unfortunate convergence of sexism, sports and social media.A Chicago sports talk radio host was With that in mind, we convened a panel of three He did come out on the air and say that he was an idiot, had misspoke. But at the end of the day, it’s one thing to say you misspoke about something and it’s another to have that mentality that you still have marinating in your brain on a daily basis, whether or not you’re dumb enough to put it out there in tweet form, or verbalize it.The fact of the matter is, a lot of people still feel this way about women in the business. And that’s why I made the point that I did when I addressed it, saying every day, I concern myself with what I’m wearing. Because I don’t want to give anybody fodder to make those kind of judgments on me. I want it to be about the work. I want it to be about what I’m saying. I want it to be about the commentary. And, unfortunately, in an aesthetic business like television, often times people look first and foremost at your appearance and make judgments based on that. So I think it’s something we’re always going to fight.I try to alert people to that issue when they comment about my appearance on Twitter. I try to say things tongue in cheek, like, “yeah, but that content, though.” Alert them that it’s not fair that we’re always being judged almost exclusively on that. And I think that’s kind of where I was coming from. I know Dan, I think he does a really good job at his job. I know there are people who criticize him for some of the things that he’s said about other people. But to be honest, it takes a lot to be successful in this business, and they’ve been doing that show for a really long time. So you could argue that they’re doing something right.I’ve gotten to the point where if you comment on my looks, I used to say thank you — like, oh, I should be saying thank you, right? This person is paying me a compliment, I should say thank you. I no longer respond at all if it’s about my looks. I sort of look at it the same way, if I was walking down the street and a construction worker, or just a man on the street was like, ‘Hey, you look good, hey girl,’ I wouldn’t say, ‘Oh my goodness, thank you so much.’ Because it’s a catcall. At the end of the day, it’s a catcall, and it’s not representative of what I do for a living.And three things stuck out to me about people that I looked at. One, they tweet content only. No personal pictures, no pictures of themselves out to dinner or out with friends. The only pictures that were every posted were maybe interviewing a player, promoting an interview coming up that night. That happens a lot, I know, with the women that I like who are working for CBS, the NCAA tournament. Nothing about what their workout routine is, nothing about what they did that morning. No personal information, that was one thing that stuck out. Two, their interactions with people were minimal and content-driven. Or three, they didn’t have a Twitter account at all. So those were the things that stuck out the most.On the Fox account, I keep it all about the team, if we’re at batting practice or shootaround or things that are coming up on pregame, etc. I post frequently from that account. So on my personal (account), I have to remind myself, OK, I should still be doing these things on my personal account. And I see the feedback just like everybody else. It seems like the feedback is, ‘You look great, I love your dress.’ It’s just all of the personal stuff. And you’re like, do you hear any of what I was saying? So that is really frustrating.I struggle with the same things Trenni does. OK, this person is being kind, they’re not being vile or crass or offensive, they’re just genuinely complimenting me. Do I respond and say thank you? Then do I have have to thank every person? People call you out on that, too, like, ‘well, you never tweet me back.’ Things like that. And so it’s hard to kind of know what the fine line is.I like seeing that Ashley Judd, who only recently came out and said that she was a victim of sexual assault as a child and now has been a victim of these vile comments that we’ve addressed, and her saying no, I’m not going to stand for it. I’m going to take a stand against it. Because then I hope it makes people think twice about going out and doing it next time.Trenni and I have a couple of friends recently who essentially sent a troll into hiding after he had said some horrible things after some very well respected women in this business. And they were able to locate his Facebook account, because it was the same handle as his Twitter account, and they were able to contact his employer, and his employer then was able to act on these screen grabs that they presented to them, saying, ‘This is the type of person you have representing you.’And I don’t think you can do it every single time, and I certainly don’t have time in my busy schedule, taking care of my family and my work responsibilities and all of the other things that we all have on our plate, to do it on a regular basis. But I like seeing people who have that ability at their disposal doing that, because I think there are people out there who say, ‘Oh, man, I can’t risk losing my job and my livelihood over a couple of four-letter words that I want to throw in the face of some female sports reporters.’That’s why, when people retweet trolls, come on, man. You’re just giving that person an opportunity to have their small-minded opinion be heard. And we have to understand that we all agree to be in the public eye, and sometimes people aren’t going to like us for really arbitrary reasons.But it was really eye-opening that on the other end, often, it’s not a jerk but it’s someone who’s suffering a lot and who does not know how to take out that anguish and pain any other way. And the internet has now provided this veil for them to do it, because no one sees them.Often times, it’s because they’ve been exposed to it from their parents, or their grandparents, even, who grew up in a different generation where it was more socially acceptable, although we could argue now that still just as detrimental to the progress of society as it is now. Look, I come from a parent’s perspective as well. I am so much more acutely aware of the things I say and the little ears that are hearing them, right?I had a woman the other day comment to me that she would like to see me wearing more suits at the office, that she’s surprised that women nowadays aren’t wearing suits to the ballpark. Again, not getting into the whole thing that times have changed a little bit and they don’t have to wear suits to the office, it did bring up the whole, ‘well, if you dressed a little more practically for the job,’ as though there’s a uniform that we should be wearing that would save us from some of these comments being made by these boorish men and viewers.And I almost wonder if the fact that we’ve kind of gotten away from sort of this internet-sensation style of sports reporting, if that’s what’s causing backlash. People now who are a little more prominent in the business are more substance over style. And I wonder if that’s threatening to a large group of people, because it’s easy to pigeonhole a woman and put her in this tiny little pretty box of, she reads a story and she looks really pretty and she doesn’t have an opinion and that’s it. But I feel like that tide is shifting a little bit, and I wonder if that’s why we’re seeing a stronger backlash on women. Because there is change happening, and it’s obvious to people watching our brands.Interested in this topic? The conversation will continue on Marquette’s campus April 15, when Linda Cohn, an ESPN anchor and author of Senior Writer, Stories written by Marquette University students and alumni

OZ provides sports programs and clubs, at all levels of their game, an opportunity to share video and live events with their core supporters through subscription-based on demand video channels. These channels can feature:Most importantly, OZ gives fans a venue to more deeply engage with their favorite teams, no matter where they are, while the sports program itself generates the additional revenue it needs to thrive.Start your club on Our Blog at OZ

A successful stock portfolio requires access to great statistical information, innovative ideas, and consistent performance, which is why I created the Stocktwits community. Building a great fantasy sports team is no different. When the stakes are high and you need to beat your opponents, you’ll need every bit of edge you can get.That’s why we’re excited to announce our seed investment in Erik and Peter Groset’s Fantasy Sports Company develops iOS and Android apps like In less than a year, Fantasy Sports’ apps have risen to become the top apps for DraftKings and FanDuel players. The fantasy sports industry is growing bigger every day. With the massive $275M Series E funding announced by FanDuel this week, and DraftKings seeking $250-$300M of their own, the playing field just got a lot more interesting. What’s more, Yahoo and CBS Sports are joining the fray. Fantasy Sports Company will be there to support players from every league.A responsive website will launch in time for football season and support for more sports is on the way. You aren’t serious about fantasy sports until you’ve got Fantasy Sports Company’s apps in your back pocket!micro-vc early stage seed investing for web enabled consumer  b2b, financial, data, media companies

These orange-haired troll men are loudly and unapologetically wrong about almost everything. They are embarrassments to professions (politics/journalism) that are supposed to be noble pursuits, yet have long been stains on America. Amazingly, these disgraces are somehow able to bring shame even to their shameless professions. Despite all this, millions of people can’t make themselves look away from the yammering buffoons and sit waiting to see what idiocy will come out of their stupid faces next. And so America may never be free of these men.The chosen son of a dynastic family, Jeb and Peyton have somehow been less successful than their idiot brothers. It could be because, despite their prodigious talents, both are prone to untimely gaffes/interceptions.Dr. Ben Carson and Tiger Woods stand out in a profession primarily filled by white men. Also, Carson has approximately the same chance of winning the nomination next year as Woods does of winning the Grand Slam next year.Both men still hold out hope for greatness, seemingly unaware that their window has long since closed. Both men are now mostly despised by those who initially supported them (New Jersey voters/Eagles fans). Both men wear size Husky slacks.No matter if you like Cruz’s politics or root for Pierzynski’s team, it’s impossible to deny that both men have among the most punchable faces ever created.At first they seem approachable and lovable. But the closer you get, the more you realize that they’re actually horrifying, smelly monsters who hold nothing but hatred for those who don’t root for exactly the same things.Kasich and Dalton have both become Ohio institutions, for better or worse. They’re not terrible. But they’re far from great. If you can’t do any better, they’ll do. But settling for them is kind of depressing.This guy probably wouldn’t have a career if it wasn’t for his dad. And what’s the deal with the hair?A lot of people were high on their futures. But they were derailed by drinking problems.Both have forged their careers in Wisconsin. Both have very conservative styles. Both are said to be assholes by their critics.Lindsay Graham, like Steve Spurrier, is Southern to his bones. And Lindsay Graham, like Steve Spurrier, has no chance of finding success in Washington.Bobby Jindal has the top job in the state of Louisiana and has had some success, but oftentimes says and does things that make you wonder if he is mentally deficient. Wait, no. That’s Les Miles. Jindal is the one with the second-most important job in Lousiana.Both men are proof that everything is bigger in Texas, especially the capability of morons to achieve positions of power.the most important sports takes

Yeah, you read that right.People always want to tell you about the tiny percentage of youth athletes who make the pros. What a stupid argument. ALL children get an education. By law. You want your kid to compete with ALL children or just the percentage that plays sports? Exactly.And you want to talk about tiny percentages? What’s the percentage of young Americans that grow up to be president? It’s a hell of a lot smaller than the percentage that makes the pros. Plus, your kid doesn’t even have to be a great athlete. He can be some shlubby left-handed reliever, and he’ll make 10 times what the president makes.Focusing on school over sports is for morons.In order for your kid to respect you, you’re going to want to make the case that you were a great athlete in your day. Unfortunately, you weren’t anything close to a great athlete in your day — and your kid will realize that as soon as he or she sees you attempt to play a sport with them. Worse, their athletic confidence will forever be shattered when they realize they are the spawn of this uncoordinated flab bag.That’s why you have to blame your inability to move or throw in a non-Frankensteintonian manner on a “knee injury” you sustained in the “state finals” back in high school. BUT I CAN’T LIE TO MY KIDS! Really? You lie to them about Santa. Why not lie to them about a fat guy who actually exists?You want your kid to have the best chance to succeed, right? So you need to give your kid the best of the best. Spare no expense. If anyone sends their kid to a camp that you don’t send your kid to or buys a piece of equipment that is more expensive than equipment your kid has, you’re basically ruining any shot your kid had at making it. Never forget this. Let this guilt drive you.Then take comfort in knowing that if/when your kid doesn’t make it, that failure is 100-percent on him.Let’s be honest: life is a non-stop avalanche of depression and failure. It can be tough to take. Sometimes the only way to get out of bed in the morning is to have a good excuse for your own crushed dreams.Did you not get that promotion at work? Do you drive an old, beat up car? Is your marriage nothing but resentment and disgust? Tell yourself it’s simply because you give so much time to your kid and his athletic dreams. Sure, you could be happy and a titan of industry. But you have your priorities in order, and getting your kid to play on the JV special teams as a sophomore is Job A-1.Steroids make better athletes and increase your kid’s chances of making it big. That’s just the facts.Here’s another fact: If you refuse to give your kid steroids due to some ethical bullcrap or whatever, you basically want your kid to die of a terrible disease.Think about it. It’s 30 years into the future. Your kid gets AIDS cancer herpes. Unfortunately, he can’t afford treatments that will save his life because he’s a broke-ass accountant. If only his father would have loved him enough to give him steroids, he would have made millions as a professional athlete and could have afforded every treatment in the world.Good job. You killed your kid. Nice ethics?Probably the best gift you can give your kid is great genes. Think of all the current professional athletes with dads who also played pro sports. If you can become a superstar pro athlete, you can pretty much forget all of this other stuff. Yeah, this is definitely the one to do. Be a great athlete.If you screw up along the way, a great way to fix it all is to come back when you’re dead and hang out at your kid’s cornfield baseball diamond and have a catch with him.Kids love that stuff.the most important sports takes

If you’ve had the chance to watch the Los Angeles Clippers this year, you’ve undoubtedly noticed that DeAndre Jordan is having a breakout season. He’s leading the league in rebounding (14.7 per game) and field goal percentage (71.6), is fourth in blocked shots (2.18 per game), and he just might walk away with Defensive Player of the Year honors. The Clips have weathered the storm of Blake Griffin’s absence in large part because of Jordan’s emergence as a bona fide star.Jordan also set himself apart in another regard: He It’s always amazing when someone is so talented in one or more aspects of a sport while sucking at another, but Jordan’s case (though he’s not the only to be afflicted by such inability) is curious in that trips to the charity stripe are, theoretically, the easiest part of the game.Not everyone can be as well-rounded as Willie Mays, Michael Jordan or Jim Brown, but still.Anyways, watching DeAndre batter the rim with wayward brick after wayward brick recently got me thinking about some other sports greats who had an Achilles’ heel — a tragic shortcoming that was often a real detriment to their teams.Here, then, in all its glory, is The Cauldron’s inaugural All-Achilles’ Heel Sports Team!Primetime was a two-sport standout in baseball and football, and undoubtedly one of the best cornerbacks and return men in NFL history. He set the standard for what a shutdown corner should be, and could single-handedly take away one side of the field — in the passing game, anyway.But, no one was afraid to run toward Deion because — how shall we put this? — he had a reputation for being a chicken shit when it came to holding his ground and actually making a tackle.Bonds was arguably baseball’s greatest hitter of all-time, though his record-setting power stats — most home runs in a season (73), most home runs in a career (762), most home runs hit after jumping approximately 27 hat sizes — remained tainted by “allegations” over his use of performance-enhancing drugs.What can’t be argued is that Bonds was a four-tool player, as he hit for power and average, was fast on the base paths, and was a good fielder. His lone shortcoming? He threw like my grandmother.Did he always have a bad throwing arm? Maybe not. There are rumors floating around about him having a cannon when he first came up with the Pirates, I guess. All I know is that he allowed Sid Freaking Bream to score from second base on a routine single to left field to seal the 1992 National League Championship Series win by the Braves.Among catchers, Mike Piazza has the highest offensive WAR (Wins Against Replacement) of all time, and he is without a doubt the best hitter to ever don the tools of ignorance. He has the most career home runs by a catcher, finished in the top three in batting average three times, and was quick enough on his feet to stop short before Roger Clemens impaled him with the shards of a broken Louisville Slugger.If we are being honest, though Piazza was woefully inadequate behind the plate. He led the league in errors For years, Marino held the NFL’s records for most career passing yards and touchdowns, as well as the single-season records in the same categories. In the mid-1980s, he was the single-most exciting offensive player in football, with the balls to throw into traffic and the arm to make those throws count.He had tremendous pocket presence, and slid around ably to create additional time, but he was shit out of luck if he ever had to run the ball. Rumor has it, the Larry Csonka once dusted him in a footrace — and Csonka was 15 years older than Marino at the time!And what’s more, Dan was such an awful placeholder as to drive poor Ray Finkle to insanity.The Great One helped make hockey relevant in the 1980s. He set many scoring records that will never be surpassed, including most goals scored and points amassed in a season. He helped lead the Edmonton Oilers to four Stanley Cup titles and the Los Angeles Kings to their own Finals appearance in 1993.His fluid skating and sixth-sense passing skills were a sight to behold, which makes it all the more astonishing that more frustrated opponents didn’t make runs at him. The party line is that the league’s players knew how much he meant to the popularity of the league and that his success trickled down to increased salaries for all players.But come the fuck on, we’re really assuming professional hockey players had an advanced understanding of trickle-down economics? Gretzky kept his gloves on thanks in large part to Oiler enforcers such as Marty McSorley, who’d ask for a word if you happened to hit The Great One in a way he disapproved of.The 62 Russian with the blistering forehand burst onto the scene in 2004 when she won Wimbledon, and she is one of only nine women to win the career Grand Slam. Her celebrity has no doubt been enhanced by her model-level looks, which she continues to undermine with that annoying grunt she emits during every return.Do tennis matches need to have sound? No, you can get everything you need with the on-court visuals and the on-screen score, which makes it possible to watch Sharapova and appreciate her game on mute.But you don’t even need the visuals if Sharapova is playing Serena Williams. You can rest assured that Serena — who, after beating Sharapova in the Australian Open finals, has now bested her in 16 straight matches — will come out on top.Serena is without a doubt Sharapova’s Achilles’ heel. Why? Because Serena, like all of us, hates that fake-ass grunting shit.I will never understand how a mammal with hands so large that a basketball looks like an orange in his palm can’t become at least passable at hitting unobstructed shots from a stationary position 10 feet from the rim. This shit is free! I mean, the word is right there in the title!*Sigh*Is it from lack of practice? Laziness? An unwillingness to go limp wrist? Probably all three.Upon entering the NBA, the Canadian was a whirling dervish on offense, equally adept at getting his own shot and creating opportunities for his teammates. And on defense, he was equally adept at creating opportunities for his opponents.His half-assed approach to defense didn’t keep him from winning two league MVPs, but of all the players with the worst defensive ratings in league history, Nash is the only one with a Hall of Fame resume.When the time comes for him to be inducted into the Hall, he will hopefully ask Dale Ellis to present him, as Ellis is the only NBA player to play more than 1200 career games and post a defensive rating as poor as Nash.Ahh, The Captain, a future first-ballot Hall of Famer who won five World Series rings with the Yankees; always the consummate winner. Though never in the conversation as the In the postseason, of course, he was sublime, regularly coming up with clutch hits or back flips of a ball to the catcher to nab a base runner (Jeremy Giambi) who should have slid and scored without a play.Jeter won five Gold Gloves, which goes to show just how meaningless those awards often are. Jeter had as much range in the field as Mark Ruffalo has as an actor. It was a running joke that the Captain should change his last name to “Past a diving Jeter,” as that was the familiar refrain from Yankee commentators Michael Kay and John Sterling.Who knows how many more World Series titles the Yankees might have won if Jeter had been willing to switch positions at some point. My guess is none, but it’s still a fun hypothetical worth asking of every Yankee fan you know, if only to see the little vein on their neck start throbbing.Has written for The New York Times, ESPN.com, The Atlantic, Yahoo! Sports, CBS Sports, and NBC New York. A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

When is a fig bar a positive step for feminism?When it becomes a NASCAR sponsor of course.Tuesday brought the news that Nature’s Bakery, a Nevada and St. Louis based snack company of 420 employees, Because for anyone in that group, the best thing Nature’s Bakery has going for it, is that it’s Dating back to 2010, Of course, those dollars also provided for a lot of nonsense, each and every Super Bowl, and beyond, when GoDaddy consistently delivered marketing campaigns based on cheap titillation, sophomoric bro-ism, and turning Patrick, (and plenty of other women who played supporting roles), into nothing more than eye-candy for a male audience. And so, “I feel like our brands align so perfectly, it’s kind of amazing,” But, even as her sponsor changes, it seems overly optimistic to assume that the days of Patrick being seen, and labeled, and judged, based primarily on her appearance, are truly over. She is still a female athlete, being covered by a predominantly male sports media, after all. Which, if history is our guide, means she’ll continue to be seen through a certain prism, no matter what turns her career takes from here.2015 has been hailed, understandably, as a banner year for women’s sports thus far. And indeed, there has been much to celebrate, as female stars have come to the forefront, and achieved unprecedented levels of success professionally, commercially, and financially. But for every undeniably positive story of growth, and progress for female athletes, also come caveats, and reminders that sexism and patriarchal thinking still dominate the sports world in ways big and small.In just a few weeks at the U.S. Open, But such is life, sadly, for Serena Williams, There is no lack of endorsements, of opportunities, of exposure, meanwhile, for another of 2015’s most successful female athletes, UFC bantamweight champion Ronda Rousey. Indeed, But then, of course, her breakthrough has not been without bumps in the road. Even as she strives for equal footing with her male counterparts when it comes to her spot on the card, her place in the UFC’s pecking order, her gender undeniably affects the way she is covered, and interviewed. It’s something Rousey herself has come to realize on a frequent basis.“I’m definitely asked different kinds of questions,” “Because I’m busy running a multi-billion dollar corporation.”While Rousey was making her millions of dollars, the U.S. Women’s National Team was drawing millions of viewers. 22 million, to be precise, for the World Cup Final, which saw the United States defeat Japan and claim their first World Cup since 1999. Of course, just weeks after Such is the reality not just for the WNBA, but for women’s sports across the country, which often struggle to draw the same attention, support, and airtime, as their male counterparts. (It is also worth noting, The Women’s World Cup should, hopefully, be seen as an answer to that question. Women’s athletics will undeniably draw, provided that the audience is given a reason to stand up and cheer. And even if fervent patriotism is only available as a selling point every four years or so, there is no reason why sports media can’t strive to create arcs, build rivalries, and tell the stories of these female athletes with the same energy and resources that they devote to their male counterparts. While it’s not realistic to expect this sort of sea change to happen overnight, in a world where So what’s the takeaway, when examining the state of women’s sports in 2015? Incredible success stories, on the field, on television, and on Madison Avenue. But also the continuing reality that “female athlete” still means something different from just plain “athlete”, sometimes for better, but quite often for worse. For women in the world of sports, it’s not enough to simply build a career, and achieve between the lines. It also means having your looks, your body, your femininity, dissected far too frequently. It means being asked frivolous, disposable, sexist silliness, simply as a matter of course. It means that even as the bar is raised, finding an economic foothold in sports, for individuals, and for leagues themselves, is far more difficult.So what’s to be done? Well, anything but throw our hands in the air and resign ourselves to the current realities. It’s time for everyone to It’s time for the entire sports media industry to understand, and appreciate their role in not simply covering stars, but also creating them, because make no mistake, that’s a power we possess. Television networks, print publications, digital concerns, they all make commitments, make concerted efforts, to building the sports, and the athletes, that they have relationships with, from the NHL to NASCAR to MMA. It’s time for women’s sports to receive that same energy, that same concentrated push. Above all else, it’s time to make the sports media space more friendly and more open to women. In part, that means ridding it of some of its most troubling and chauvinistic tendencies. None of this is going to happen overnight. But more importantly, none of it is going to happen by itself. An industry left to its own devices will continue to practice the same bad habits, falls into the same ruts, and continue to hire the same men it’s been hiring, for no real reason other than, quite simply, because it’s easier that way. Truly changing the game takes an incredible effort, not just from the athletes on the field, but from those charged with covering them.The first seven months of 2015 have provided plenty of proof that our nation’s female athletes are doing their part. Now it’s time to meet them halfway.Writer/Producer for Fox Sports, The Cauldron, Vice Sports, Fansided. Love my family, my friends, my Mets, and my Jambands. A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

He might not be the most athletic kid on the team, or have the best stats (or any stats for that matter). But he makes up for it with smarts, hustle and determination. This, according to coach, is why he is the team’s MVP this year. Now everyone give him a round of applause as he accepts his plaque.He’s got a six-pack, a mustache and a girlfriend who’s a sophomore in high school all by the age of 11. He’s already banged half the moms and beat up half the dads. He’s like Bo Jackson and Jim Brown rolled into one. His fastball hit 80 mph last practice. He’s mistaken for a coach at least once a game. He is the man you want to someday become.He’s a terrible, terrible athlete and kind of a dick, but that’s all forgiven because the end-of-season parties at his mansion are awesome. While the other team eats oranges at halftime, your team eats beluga caviar which, “Wolfgang spent all morning making.”No matter the sport or the weather, you can always count on this kid rocking jeans for games and practices. Sometimes he wears his basketball shorts and his soccer shin pads outside his jeans, which is just the cherry on the sundae. No one ever saw him outside of practices and games, and he said like three words all season. He is, to put it bluntly, the BigFoot of youth sports.There weren’t enough other girls to field a female team, so she’s on this team instead. She’s better than 75% of the guys, is starting to develop a little early, and to be honest everyone’s very uncomfortable about the whole situation. The kid who only wears jeans now wears his basketball shots over his jeans to help hide his constant erection, and the kid who hit puberty early just asked her for a hand job during a timeout.His parents, therapist, and invisible friends thought it would be good to get him participating in team activities. He spends the majority of practices eating dirt and the majority of games picking flowers. His primary method of movement is skipping instead of running, and he only answers to “Zanzabar.”He recently moved to your town, which has a 98% Caucasian population, and everyone is pumped. When he showed up to the first practice, every kid and parent had visions of state championships dancing in their heads. Except when he finally gets out on the field or court, you realize he’s a middle of the pack player. The parents all convince themselves he’s just goin easy on everyone, but it’s to no avail. He’s just a regular kid, and everyone hates him for it.the most important sports takes

When we arrive at Sit down with “If you want to do something, you want to do it really well,” Bond says. “So, you’re thinking about it all the time—how can I improve? How can I get better? One of the things that sports taught me is that you always want to be on the edge of where am I now, and where do I need to be tomorrow.”At the outset of our conversation, this hints at the philosophy underlying SixFifty—that is, a careful, studied approach that sees lacrosse as a lens through which life lessons can be learned. In other words, while the forum for learning is between the lines, it’s a philosophy that extends well beyond the field of play.The connection between sports, teaching, and community is one that is intensely meaningful for Bond, who spent years as a youth pastor, as well as playing lacrosse at the Division 1 level in college, for Johns Hopkins University. And, he’s never been busier than he is now, coaching with Menlo-Atherton High School varsity boys, serving as boys’ director of the Menlo-Atherton Grizzlies Youth Lacrosse Club, and running SixFifty.While he’s no stranger to working for larger organizations (take, for example, the church—Bond served as youth pastor for two of the largest churches on the West Coast, in Orange County and Menlo Park), something that Bond really believes in—and that is reflected in the name of his startup—is the power of personal connection. SixFifty was built to serve the 650 area code—by limiting the scope from the outset, Bond hopes to drive deeper connections with the community, and make a lasting difference in the lives of people growing up in the area. And how will they accomplish that goal? In Bond’s words, by being ‘intentional.’“I had a handful of adults in my life that played a huge role in my development—some of them were coaches, some of them were teachers,” Bond reflects. First among them were Bond’s parents—Bond’s father also served as his high school coach.Combine that experience, where Bond had a community of supportive adults helping to guide him from a young age, with his seminary education and background in theology, and you start to realize what lies behind Bond’s desire to give back. And while faith is certainly a component, Bond looks at it more from the perspective of a system of values, rather than an institution. “Youth ministry is about youth mentorship, and that’s my background. SixFifty was an opportunity to take all of this training and experience that I had in youth development and apply it sports.”He continues: “Sports happen to be this great pathway for growth. It has become kind of a cliché—a lot of people kind of pay lip service to that. But my feeling is that unless you’re really, really intentional, things just don’t happen by accident. So, if you’re just running a league, or you’re running a team, or you happen to be a coach, it’s not enough just to show up—although that’s a great start. Very little happens just by osmosis.”What Bond is getting at is that the lessons are there for the teaching—it’s up to the coaches to make sure that that’s not lost on the most important people: the athletes.“I don’t know how intentional my coaches were,” he says. It’s true that many great coaches have a way of communicating these things without being explicit, but “we’re missing 80–90% of the impact that we could have by not being intentional. Unless a coach goes in and says, ‘these are the lessons that I want to share with my guys,’ most 13-, 14-, 18-year-olds aren’t going to realize it at the time. It’s going to be 20 years down the line that they are saying to themselves, I learned about persistence, I learned about hard work, I learned about how far I could push myself, about community, teamwork—I can look back and say that I learned all of that, but in the moment, unless a coach is really making an effort to teach, it won’t happen by itself.”It’s for that reason that SixFifty has a curriculum that is standard across the program, touching on the above, and laying out clear lessons and guidelines for coaches and athletes alike.“It’s a springboard for deeper conversations, for coaches and players.”In the words of Nelson Mandela, “sport has the power to change the world.” This is something that Bond not only takes to heart, but feels it must be understood and appreciated to the extent that coaches see themselves as teachers and mentors. Not to be cliché, but, it’s not just Xs and Os.By starting at the local level, and keeping his scope small enough that he can give that personal attention and sense of community that so helped him as a youth, Bond has created a model that fits his 650 audience. And it’s growing.How much? About 30% per year over the first three years of the program, across the board. SixFifty offers afters-school classes, where kids can get an introduction to lacrosse using program equipment, giving them a chance to test it out before investing in personal gear. They offer offseason box (indoor) lacrosse leagues, summer camps, group clinics and private lessons, and an annual ‘Lacrosse and Service’ trip to Costa Rica for high school players. It’s a diverse array of options.“I would love for the company to be a vehicle for helping kids grow, for helping them navigate inevitable change—whether it’s from eighth grade to ninth grade, or high school to college. It reaches way beyond, ‘hey, I signed up to play in this league.’”He adds, “We’re called SixFifty because it’s the area code—it’s a small geographic area. If we were a lacrosse company first, and a youth development company second, we’d look at the Bay Area or beyond and say how do we grow our brand, how do we push our product. None of it’s right or wrong—it’s just a different way of looking at it. I look at it and say, this is where I live, how can I make an impact here?”Athlete, artist, writer. And, um, banterer. Content and Social Media Manager at The SportUp journal, advocating for community development through sports and education. #ElevateYourGame

Sports, Genetics, and the Power of a Movement PracticeIt’s 2015, and I currently have a list of all of my A company called What does my genetic data say about me as an athlete? With genetic contributors in the top eighty-second percentile, it’s clear that I’m made for long, sustained efforts. I’m a high responder to VO2 max and lactate threshold training, both classic markers of endurance. However, I’m in the eighth percentile for anaerobic capacity and the twenty-eighth for power.This makes sense to me. My first exposures to exercise were distance running and cycling, and I’ve run a 5:15 mile with no special training other than CrossFit. Although I have enjoyed training and competing in powerful technical movements like Olympic-style weightlifting and the throwing pentathalon, I don’t expect to reach the elite echelons of any power sport. But I never started throwing implements and lifting heavy weights so I could be elite. Similarly, I began CrossFit because I wanted to look and feel good, learn new skills, and train like an athlete the way I did in college. It’s still an exciting challenge that always demands improvement.CrossFit helps me develop power even though I’m not genetically gifted at things like sprinting or weightlifting. Energy systems overlap, so having a My robust aerobic engine has brought me many of my fondest memories exploring nature and spending time with friends. It’s kept me going while hiking up long stretches of coastal Point Reyes mountains on backpacking trips, propelled my feet along the scenic ocean cliffs of Santa Cruz, and transported me on bicycle around the urban landscapes of San Francisco and Austin. It’s time for me to apply what I’ve learned in the gym to new domains like perhaps rock climbing, stand-up paddleboarding, or kayaking.Our genetics can now tell us about our natural athletic dispositions, but we shouldn’t be pigeonholed by them. How will you apply your fitness and where will pushing your athletic boundaries bring you?Header photo credit: games.crossfit.comFormer San Francisco CrossFit intern coach living in Austin, Texas.

About two months after I published my first novel, Yet on this day there was but one letter in my box. Generally, I would wait until I arrived at my office to open the mail but the College Station, Texas postmark piqued my curiosity. I opened the envelope, pleased to find a two-page, single-spaced, typewritten epistle from James Michener.James Michener’s encouragement confirmed one of the important benefits of being a writer: you enter a community that is thoughtful, civil (though by no means genteel!) and generally supportive; at times, surprisingly so.Which leads me to my good friend Gary Palladino and some comparisons between the writing community and the sports community.I have known Gary for over 40 years. In the late ‘70s, we competed against each other as men’s college basketball coaches — Gary at the University of Hartford and me at Trinity College. Since that time, we have remained close, both of us familiar with the vacillations of life and the need for friends to help us persist.Eighteen months ago, Gary called me to say that he was finished with the first draft of his memoir and that he would like my assistance in wrapping up the project. I was pleased to help, and my interest grew when I learned more of the backstory. As Gary explained the process of writing his memoir, I could easily see that he had transferred qualities that had defined his successful athletic career to his writing: self-discipline, perseverance, incrementalism and team-building.During our conversation, I learned that Gary had spent 12 years writing the memoir. Each school day, when proctoring an exam or study hall at Notre Dame High School in West Haven, Connecticut (where Gary spent 31 years as a teacher/coach after leaving the University of Hartford), he would work on the book; he never missed a school day.At one point, Gary mistakenly deleted a good portion of the book from his computer. Devastated, he thought of ending the project. Twenty-four hours later, The Coach was back at it, making steady progress each school day without fail.After reading the several chapters Gary sent me, it was clear that my friend had produced a draft which could evolve into a fine book. I then asked my editor, Bob Stiepock — who had taught English at both Harvard and West Point — and Reading Specialist, Dianne Peretti, to review the chapters, after which the three of us met at my home with Gary and his wife, Cheryl.The Palladinos listened intently to our thoughts. When we concluded, Cheryl — a distinguished English teacher — indicated that she and a fellow English teacher, Joanne Hall, were prepared to work with Gary on the editing. For the next twelve months, the trio collaborated tirelessly on revisions. When I received the final draft, I knew this book would delight and inspire readers.On June 19, Notre Dame High School hosted an overflow gathering to celebrate the publication of “Charge: A Memoir” by Gary Palladino. The front cover contained the following testimonial from best-selling author, Leigh Montville: “Remarkable … indispensable.” Within weeks, the first edition was sold out and a second printing is in the works for Christmas sale.So, why do you write a book? Well, among those present on that splendid June evening, were Coach Gary’s grandchildren.As for my own writing, and following Mr. Michener’s advice, I never miss a day (early morning for me). At times, I am reminded of Ernest Hemingway’s quote:Yet despite the occasional need for a cutman in my corner, I surely appreciate the amount of joy I derive from the creative process.In 2009, I published The book was featured in many articles, including the Being on a team, including being team manager, presents your child with opportunities to cultivate leadership skills. Encourage your child to set attainable leadership goals that are not dependent upon athletic ability.The following sixteen goals can help every team member, regardless of athletic ability, develop leadership skills:Establishing high personal standards raises the bar for other team members. When a coach has a group of players who aspire to these goals, the whole team benefits!Author of The Encyclopedia of Sports Parenting and An African Rebound. Founder of the World Scholar Athlete Games.

I love watching the celebrations at the end of a championship. Last night it was the Royals celebrating the World Series. As they celebrate, the camera pans over to players on the opposing team crying and watching.You also see the agony in the faces of the fans. They are distraught and in tears. Die hard sports fans support teams for their entire lives and sometimes never see their team reach a championship round, much less win it.They are so emotionally invested in the outcome it is beyond words. Some people cannot even watch their team during the playoffs because the anxiety is too painful. They cannot handle the wild highs and lows during the game — again, it’s too emotional.We’ve all heard the saying,But we end up doing the same thing. We are emotionally invested in the outcome of our lives but we rarely do anything to affect the outcome.Many of us have struggled with the same few basic issues for years — if not decades. Waking up for fajr, finances, health, etc.These are areas where we know we need to take action, but we let the urgency of the daily grind take priority.Stop what you’re doing, set a timer for 5 minutes, and write down the 1, 2, or 3 biggest issues holding you back. Be honest with yourself. Then identify one thing you can do today that will help fix that issue.The default for most people is to let life happen to them and try to deal with it. Successful people live intentionally.Omar Usman is a founding member of MuslimMatters, Qalam Institute, Debt Free Muslims, MuslimSI, and the Fiqh of Social Media. 

The first time I was ever called a “cunt,” at least to my “face,” was on a sports blog in 2006. The comment that evoked the slur had nothing to do with the guy who aimed it at me. I had disagreed — politely — with something he had said about the Cubs’ starting lineup, and that prompted a reply along the lines of “Why would you bat Todd Walker second, you filthy cunt?” (If I recall correctly, it was because Walker had an OPS of almost .900 in spring training, but I digress.)The offender had often debated lineups with other posters on the site, whose audience was almost all male. While I didn’t expect him to send me flowers for offering a different opinion, I certainly didn’t anticipate that kind of response. The site moderator quickly rebuked the offender and deleted the comment, but the message got through loud and clear: “You may not share your sports opinion while, at the same time, being a woman.”Nine years later, in the midst of the Patrick Kane rape investigation, I found myself working from home Friday, having received a threat on Twitter that hit a little too close to home.As an anchor for a prominent Chicago sports radio station, I understand my opinions are much more open to commentary now than they were 10 years ago, but this particular tweet contained personal details, and I simply did not feel entirely safe walking to my office. It didn’t help matters that That threatening tweet, like the “cunt” comment nine years ago, was deleted immediately, but other unsettling remarks remained:*****Twitter has largely replaced blog comments when it comes to sports discussions, but for women, not much has changed. Those of us who dare invade this mostly male space are generally accepted, but there remains a vocal minority committed to forcing women out and rolling things back to the good ol’ days, when women talked about recipes and PTA meetings and shoes. (Is that what they talked about? I’m guessing here.)Unfortunately for these “meninists,” an entire generation grew up as the daughters of Title IX, with progressive fathers and kick-ass mothers who took us to football games, played one-on-one with us in the driveway, and taught us how to throw a fastball. With more and more women brought up to believe that sports can be their space, too, it’s natural for them to expect a seat at the table when sports come up in conversation. And yet, 40 years after Robin Herman became the first female reporter to enter an NFL locker room, women are still fighting a war against rampant sexism in the industry, with Twitter and Facebook serving as the new frontlines.Lest anyone think such abuse comes only amidst the most controversial topics or charged subject matter, make no mistake, the very act of maintaining a career in sports journalism is enough to inflame those who feel that their special Y-Chromosome Club is under siege. ESPN’s Jen Lada remembers an email she received from one such “sports fan.”“A viewer emailed me saying the only reason I had my job was because I had used my big mouth to service my boss and male colleagues,” Lada said. “When I responded that such vulgarity towards women set a terrible example for his young child (who was prominently featured in the man’s Twitter and Facebook profiles) he replied that his son and his middle school-aged friends agreed and were laughing at me while watching, as well. Parenting #FAIL.”While such retrograde behavior disappoints regardless of the subject matter, it is particularly infuriating when it surrounds issues that disproportionately affect women, including rape and domestic violence. Even here, on subjects that demand a female perspective, those who are hell-bent on making women feel unwelcome and unsafe respond in the most vile ways imaginable.Sadly, the vitriol I’ve experienced on Twitter hasn’t just been in connection with sports. Speaking out about my own rape — as personal and as sensitive a topic as can be imagined — drew a string of tweets just like these:Be it a conversation on heavy subject matter like violence and sexual assault, or a discussion of things as trivial as the Bears 3–4 defense, tweets like these are simply a part of my reality, nearly every single day. And I’m not alone.Freelance journalist Jessica Luther writes frequently about violence against women in the sports sphere, and broke stories on sexual assault scandals at Luther says she’s conditioned herself over the years not to read the comments on pieces she publishes, but is often forced to block and mute Twitter trolls intent on insulting and intimidating her.“I think attacking women who talk about sports often stems from the idea that women simply don’t belong in sports, especially not in men’s sports,” Luther says. “Women shouldn’t have an opinion, and certainly not one that challenges the systemic issues endemic in the sport or team or league someone else is invested in. But also, you just shouldn’t have an opinion about who plays better at the quarterback position, or what team will make the postseason. If you dare to have one, well then, you are just asking for someone (often a man) to correct it.”ESPN’s Jemele Hill, co-host of “I’ve been called a whore, a black bitch, a nigger, a monkey, an Uncle Tom, and had my sexuality questioned,” said Hill, unable to decide the worst thing she’s ever been called on Twitter. While she learned to cope with the online venom by being “quick with the block button,” Hill agrees that women are lightning rods for a special breed of nastiness on sports Twitter. “Women who are confident, assertive and opinionated are resented in every sector of society. The difference is that the relative anonymity of social media empowers the trolls to say things to women that they wouldn’t dare say if they were before us in person.“When it comes to sports, women are big targets for abuse because the resentment is two-fold. Some resent us for our confidence and beliefs. But there also is an added resentment because we are supposedly infiltrating a space that has been decidedly male. There are some men who don’t want to share that space, because our presence changes that dynamic. Suddenly they have to be ‘civilized.’ It’s no longer a no-holds barred environment. Because women are not only present in sports, we’re demanding something from them. We’re demanding respect, and some just don’t like it.”While the idea that a certain faction of men resent women’s infiltration into their last bastion of guy-dom seems like something society should have resolved decades ago (along with racism, homophobia, and, perhaps, basic table manners), Andrew Dzurisin, assistant professor of sociology at Middlesex County College, believes Hill and Luther are thinking along the right lines.“Of all areas of society, I believe men still think of sports as their domain,”​ Dzurisin said. “If you look at American males (especially those with a [high school] education or less), they are falling behind women in many areas. To me, it is ‘This is my turf, not yours.’ If you look at their tweets, most generally articulate they believe in very traditional gender roles. Women working in sports or interested in sports are their worst nightmare. It’s bad enough she is probably outpacing me career-wise, but how dare she try to infiltrate the one area that I believe is exclusively male.”While it’s tempting to write off the men who send violent and demeaning tweets with a “don’t feed the trolls” mantra, there is something larger at work here. Simply observe hashtags such as Make no mistake, these tweets are not meant to express disagreement. They are calculated to destroy, demean, and denigrate the women they target in a public forum. And even in their choice of hateful language, these men provide hints of their own warped value system. Because it’s not enough for such fragile men, threatened by the changing world around them, to simply tell a woman she’s wrong, or even that she’s stupid. These comments attempt to cut much deeper, striking women at what misogynists see as their most valuable characteristics: appearance, sexual purity, sweetness and submissiveness. In the world these men inhabit, a world that increasingly exists only in their own troubled minds, the worst possible thing a woman can be is a fat, slutty cunt.As a talented psychologist recently told me, “You’re the landlord of your head. You get to decide who rents space there.” That’s great advice for anyone dealing with an onslaught of bullies, but not necessarily an answer to a societal problem that continues to spiral out of control. It’s time that women — and the vast majority of men on Twitter who value women’s place in the discussion — take back the space from those who use it to exclude and demean.The responsibility is shared, by the owners and operators of the social networks who must live up to their promise to crack down on abuse, and by those who implicitly condone the behavior every time they observe it without speaking up. Progress may be challenging, and slower than anyone would like, but no good ever came from resignation. It’s time for the forces that carved out a space for women in locker rooms to do the same in our online communities.There’s no reason that I — and the thousands of other women in the field — should have to tolerate things online that no one would ever accept off it.Update anchor for 670 The SCore in Chicago. Cubs blogger. Hoosier. Recovering lawyer. Lover of life, hater of red peppers. Well-known tart.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

the most important sports takes

We live in an era where humans are becoming increasingly sedentary. The temptation of video games often wins out over the hard work that goes into a successful soccer season, adding an extra 1/2 an inch to your high-jump record, or perfecting your jump shot. But we also know that providing the youth of today with a positive place to get involved in sports, forge lasting relationships, and learn about themselves in ways not possible when sitting on your couch can make all the difference when it comes to their future.The stats show that students who are involved in sports at the grade school and high school levels are less likely to miss class, have lower suspension rates, and are more frequently involved in Advanced Placement courses. Why is this? While playing sports make not make students smarter, it undoubtedly teaches them the importance of hard work, persistence, and focusing on long-term goals. And, those lessons learned on the playing field translate. Hence, student-athletes are more likely to finish high school than non-athletes.The real world is a challenging place, and the experience of working hard as part of a team is invaluable — though it is becoming increasingly quantifyable. Even those student-athletes who enter the university system seemingly at a competitive disadvantage in terms of grade-point average and standardized test scores are in fact out-performing their classmates in a number of ways.Taking risks, learning spacial awareness and interpersonal skills, and learning how to cope with difficult circumstances and respond in a positive way are all key elements to success on the court, and in life.The difficulty when it comes to organizing a team or athletic league comes down to logistics: How do you manage all those athletes, coaches, and parent organizations in support of your program? How do you communicate effectively with everyone? How can you track the progress of your athletic department, and give administrators tangible feedback? How can you monitor athlete engagement? What’s the best way to keep learning, even after practice is over?Learn more by reading the article above, or by visiting our website at #ElevateYourGame-The SportUp TeamOrganize. Connect. Learn. Tools that help you achieve your potential. Join the team and #elevateyourgame at sportup.com.The SportUp journal, advocating for community development through sports and education. #ElevateYourGame

Over 60 years ago, a young African-American athlete from Pasadena embarked on a journey that, at the time, was thought of as impossible. In the midst of racial segregation, the idea of blacks and whites playing sports together was as realistic as snow in hell, until a standout All-American from UCLA broke the color barrier in 1947.Danger loomed. Ridicule. Death threats. But he knew what he stood for wasn’t just his dream, but that of every African-American. He paved the way for athletes of color to live in a world that gave them opportunity to play the sports they love without segregation. We know this story today as the most heroic moment in sports history. That hero’s name was Jackie Robinson.1947 seems long ago. While racism is still alive in some parts of the country, it is shared throughout that segregation is a violation of human rights. However, the idea of discrimination based on uncontrollable circumstances still looms heavily in the world of sports.Many teams are still hesitant on the acceptance of gay athletes in particular. Why hasn’t this issue been solved?It’s been close to two years since Jason Collins, the first active gay athlete, released his story to Sports Illustrated that publicly announced his sexual orientation, and a year since Michael Sam announced to the world that he’d be the first openly gay player in the NFL. Yet, many athletes still hold the opinion that they don’t want to play with anyone who is gay. Their reasons are typically the same, which usually isn’t reason at all.In 2013, NFL player Chris Culliver openly discriminated against gay athletes when he was asked a question regarding whether or not he knew of gay players on his team. He said, “We don’t got no gay people on the team, they gotta get up out of here if they do…. Can’t be with that sweet stuff. Nah…can’t be…in the locker room, man. Nah.”And just last week, New York Mets player David Murphy openly stated that he disagreed with the lifestyle choice of Billy Bean, a former player who came out in 1999. Whether or not being gay is a choice of lifestyle or birth-given is irrelevant, and the fact that Murphy and Culliver don’t present themselves as ambassadors for equality is the overwhelming issue today in sports — one we are so familiar with.It’s unreal to think that today, in 2015, the idea of equality is still so far from reality. It’s disgusting to hear that what we’ve been taught since elementary — the story of Jackie Robinson — hasn’t been used as a model for athletes collectively to accept those of another sexual orientation, and as long as the problem persists, many gay kids will be denied the human right to escape reality through sports.To those who continue to stand up and fight for equality: you are living testament of Jackie’s journey.Sports enthusiast. WWE, Star Wars and James Bond fanatic. Writer for The Base Line. Opinion Editor for the award-winning Chaffey Breeze.from the hills to the sky

While I do my best to live my life with faith, family and friends in first place I think I’ve “discovered” the two “things” that truly bind us all.Sports and music.I could add food to the above list, and really as you drill down, the list could go on and on. But in this day where all politics are too often divisive and media segmented; cities and states are segregated and religions (while unifying within their communities) are not an all-for-one and one-for-all proposition, I’m in on sports and here’s why.At all levels, sports bring people together. Sure you can not like a team, player, coach or call. But when a team wins, loses, plays hard or just entertains, a community takes note and the elevation of endorphins escalate for the greater good.The University of Wisconsin is winning. The Bucks are battling. The Brewers? Hope springs eternal this time of year. And, the Packers — while heartbreaking for some — are the focus of Sundays and more in Wisconsin. Marquette’s ready to soar Sports matter. Especially in our state. Sports build partnerships, make us cheer, laugh, cry and care. I may not care about your kid’s soccer game, but you do, and the lessons learned from sports transcend traditional teaching and lay ground work for all aspects of life.And, then there’s music. Music is life. Again, we may not all listen to the same artists, genres or generations of tunes, but music is everywhere. Live, streaming, in our theaters and arenas and in our heads. We sing alone, with thousands at concerts, and pretty much everywhere in between.Sports and music matter, and investing in sports and music matters.As I’ve People rally around their teams, jump on bandwagons, wear jerseys and high five strangers. This happens with winning, but also because teams have the resources to build fan bases, enhance the game day experience and build pipelines that fund projects and players.I’m a passionate sports and music fan. I’m also a nearly 20-year Bucks season ticket holder. I love basketball. And, I love Milwaukee. I also love that we have the venues in our state to host big concerts, events and more. I work hard to bring events here too, and support our events by attending, promoting and caring.Sports and music.They matter, and they help us build a sense of community, a sense of pride and a greater sense of place. And while other states and cities have them Milwaukee and Wisconsin are truly blessed with amazing, unique opportunities for us all in both sports and music. And, as the Bucks work on the master plan for new Downtown arena and entertainment district, I say we all look inside ourselves and around us to see just how impactful sports and music are in our lives.I read, share and help. Media. Milwaukee. Marquette. President of digital media company, OnMilwaukee.com.  Community. Connections. Creativity. More.

I like sports. I always have, and I probably always will.Ever since I first laced up my soccer cleats when I was four years old, I’ve never been able to stay away for very long. To this day, I’m still playing constantly, but I’m not limiting myself to a single sport; I regularly play soccer, basketball, bike, go on runs, I like being active. If I’m not, I tend to go a little crazy. Whether it’s the competition, entertainment, camaraderie, or basic health aspect of sports that I love — or a combination of the four — I plan on having sports as a common thing in my life.Sure, I’ve played plenty of sports throughout my life, but I’ve also found myself becoming more of a fan. During my years in high school, I could hardly finish my homework unless I had SportsCenter playing in front of me. If I didn’t know how the Trail Blazers had done that night, there was no way in hell I was able to learn the quadratic formula.During the end of my junior year in high school, I realized that I actually had to start thinking about what I wanted to for the rest of my life. Next year would be my final year in high school and then I would be off to college and having to choose a career path. After a great deal of thinking, I discovered that I could use my passion for athletics as the base for my career aspirations.I wanted to become a sports writer.I love sports; I love talking about them. Why not just translate my thoughts into writing?And thus Since then, Just before writing this post, I purchased two tickets for the October 25th soccer game between Seattle Sounders FC and Real Salt Lake at CenturyLink Field. This will be my 7th straight season attending a Sounders game. The last couple of seasons, I’ve been slacking on my Sounders game attendance, having only been to a single game each of the last two seasons. I do try to keep track of every game and watch highlights, but I’m sad to have found myself attending games less often.This could be due to a variety factors: cost, busy schedule, cost. Well, I guess that’s really it. Tickets are pretty expensive and my schedule has been busy. But, despite not being able to attend games, I’ve still been just as big of a fan. As long as my heart is with the team, that should suffice, right?I think it should.Even if I can’t go to that many games because times are tough and I can’t afford to do whatever I want whenever I want, I can still identify myself with a huge amount of complete strangers because of our shared love for a soccer team. I can’t begin to tell you how many people I’ve met and shared pleasant conversations with based solely on the fact that we’re fans of Seattle Sounders FC. It’s awesome.Even the Super Bowl — as disgusting as the fat, consumeristic ideals that it’s based on are — is an awesome sporting event that gathers millions of people and unites them for at least a few hours.Sports are great. They keep me entertained and make me exercise; they fulfill the competitive side of me and I can meet tons of cool people who like them just like me.Plus, I can root for my own favorite teams and insult my friends’ favorite teams and it always ends up being a great time for witty banter back and forth. There’s nothing quite like a good sports debate.It’s time to take a step back and think about why you value some of the things that you hold so dearly.Pro: Being a sports fan is fun, I guess? False, it’s amazing.Con: Sometimes people get hurt playing sports and there are certainly a lot of fans that are fat, egotistical idiots, at least here in America.PNW native. Raised on an island. Aspiring writer. University of Washington Husky. Constantly wandering, pondering life.

Or how about receivers:And finally, some running backs:You’re probably thinking they all had amazing games. And of course you’re right. But there’s something else:Well, there is, but it isn’t what you might think.First let me explain what Draftops.com’s SSC is:If And unlike most daily fantasy sports sites like FanDuel and DraftKings, Let’s look at the pick-4 option. 10 to 1 may sound appealing, but remember you have to pick all 4 correctly. If we’re talking 50–50 odds, that happens But what’s even more appalling is the yardage requirements. These numbers are way, way off from any realistic projections. Who thought Mick Vick was going to throw for 300 yards in week 5? (he had 203 passing yards) Or that Eddy Lacy would rush for 126 yards in week 6? (he had 3 rushing yards)I first noticed the insane numbers in week 3 after seeing TV commercials for the site. I decided to see just how often players were able to achieve these yardage requirements. So for weeks 3–6*, I tracked them vs the actual output.I’ll even be generous and throw out all the players who scored zero points. Most of those didn’t play due to injury, but some did play and just didn’t catch a ball. But let’s say you knew not to pick those guys.Out of all the plays they offered*, there were 70 winners and…wait for it….241 losers. You have a 22.5% chance of picking a winner. And remember, ALL your picks have to be winners in order to get paid.Let’s revisit that pick-4 for 10 to 1 payoff.Since we’re no longer talking about a 50–50 chance, the odds go from Somehow, it gets worse:At the pick 10 level, it pays 150 to 1, and the odds are In other words, if you play the draftops SSC at all, you’re giving your money away. I emailed them asking if the SSC was designed to win at a 50% rate per player, and what the historical win rate was for players. They did not reply.I also asked them if they would allow users to select that players would get LESS yards than their requirement. Again, they did not reply.There is a difference between DraftOps and the rest of the Daily Fantasy sites like FanDuel and DraftKings. At FD and DK, you pay a fee in order to compete with other people. If you’re good enough (the bar is pretty high with their juice, but I’ll get into that another time), you can beat someone via a fun mix of skill and luck. FD and DK make money by providing a place for players to find contests and compete against each other. Draftops’ Single Stat Challenge game makes money by taking it from users with a bad understanding of math and probability. Their users lose so that they can win.That would be fine if the odds were fair, like a sportsbook. See, sportsbooks will put out a line, and you can take whichever side you want. The ability for users to pick either side keeps the sportsbooks honest. At DraftOps, you can ONLY take the “over” on yardage, and so they jack up the yardage requirements, ensuring you lose, and they win.Obviously it is a horrible business model that has no sustainability. They are literally taking 97%+ of all money wagered on the SSC. Who would stick around for that?And what really concerns me, among I would not trust Draftops in any way. I wonder if People say that fantasy sports is a skill. In most cases I agree. But in the case of Draftops, I can confidently say that the only skill required is to avoid playing with them.Data used:Updates: Founder, Likefolio. Entreprenuer, gambler, software creator, golfer, wakeboarder, husband to a beauty and father to two great boys.

A skilled statesman from Massachusetts, Sam Adams is probably better known today for the beer.Franklin was involved in the press, had an active sex life and, while being a little overrated, was widely respected.Paine, a shameless propagandist, wrote passionately about the sins of the King.Credited with sewing the first American flag, she eschewed the typical three boring stripes of European flags and designed a bold, red, white and blue flag with stars and bars.Famously said: “Give me liberty or give me death.”The standard by which every president and general is measured, he can do no wrong in the eyes of history — even though he owned slaves.Not without impact on America — he was president of the second Continental Congress, after all — but you have to think the only reason he’s famous is because he signed his name so big.John Jay was the first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, was president of the Continental Congress and wrote some of Thomas Jefferson was a Renaissance Man. He was a Founding Father, he wrote the Declaration of Independence, was the third President of the United States, and even wrote his own version of the Bible.Yeah, you’re right. Maybe this one is a bit of a stretch.I guess just enjoy your Fourth of July.Have a few beers and re-read this article then. It will make much more sense.Thanks.the most important sports takes

The NFL, Major League Baseball and the PGA Tour all name a Comeback Player of the Year. This would be a fine award if it was always given to a player returning from a serious injury or personal tragedy. But more often than not, the Comeback Player award is given to someone who simply sucked the previous year. All this award does is remind everyone how terrible you were.The NBA’s Most Improved Player Award is similar to the Comeback Player of the Year Award of the NFL, MLB and PGA, only you’re completely disqualified if you’ve ever had a good season previously. Winning this award confirms that up until the most recent season, you were pretty much a bust.NASCAR’s Most Popular Driver is determined by fan votes. Dale Earnhardt, Jr. has won this award every year since 2003: 12 consecutive years. Earnhardt, Jr. has barely won that many races in that time, and has never won a Sprint Cup. Even if another driver eventually wins this award, it’s forever associated with failure.Congratulations, you are the best player in a soccer league that is somewhere between the world’s 9th and 30th best. If this was American football, you would be the league MVP of Arena League 9.Being given an award with “Frances” in the name is bad enough. But it gets worse. The Frances Pomeroy Naismith Award it is given to the best college basketball player in the country … who is 6-feet tall or shorter. It’s like receiving an official notice that your NBA draft stock has plummeted.The Walter Camp Award is college football’s Player of the Year Award. Pretty prestigious, right? Not really. Because it’s not the Heisman, which is awarded to college football’s Most Outstanding Player. How are they different? People care about one and not about the other.An example: Tim Tebow won a Heisman, but no Walter Camp. Colt McCoy didn’t win the Heisman, but he won The Frank Broyles Award is given to the best coach in college football. Wait, no. I’m sorry. The best A gold medal means you achieved your dreams, while a bronze medal sends you away happy that you got something. Silver just makes you second-guess yourself for the rest of your life.It’s the only sports trophy with “Lady” in the title and it is given to recognize “gentlemanly play” in the NHL. Instead of a trophy, they should just tape a “KICK ME” sign to the winner’s back.Congratulations, fella! Of all of the guys not good enough to start in the NBA, you reign supreme! Only if the MLS gave out an award for best backup would the Sixth Man lose its least prestigious award award.Seriously. It exits. The winners in its 15 years of existence are:No one has ever won it in back-to-back years. Probably because the winner usually gets so depressed that he quits basketball forever.the most important sports takes

The Beginner is the kid who recently showed an interest in the sport, so his parents signed him up to learn. Everything. Absolutely everything. The Beginner is the kid at hockey camp who doesn’t know how to skate. At basketball camp he’s the kid who can’t dribble even one time. At baseball camp, he can’t catch. Or throw.Early in the camp, the coaches will spend a lot of time trying to help him get through drills with everyone else. By Thursday and Friday they’ll have given up and he’ll be completely ignored as he awkwardly flails about behind the pack.The Chronically Dehydrated Kid constantly asks for water breaks. Whether due to laziness, being out of shape, a medical condition or a pure, unquenchable love for H20, every second at the camp he will spend thinking about how to get his next water fix.The Abandoned Child’s parents had him and then soon discovered they don’t care much for parenting. So they sign him up for absolutely anything they can in order to spend as much time away from the child as possible (until he is sent away forever at age 18).“It takes a village,” the saying goes. And the Abandoned Child’s parents want everyone else in the village to raise their kid.This future felon is in the camp because his parents hope it will teach him discipline. At the very least, it will give the family cat an entire week free from torture.The Psychopath will cause a problem from the second he arrives on Monday until the moment he leaves on Friday (if he’s not kicked out before then). Most of his fellow campers will learn new curse words thanks to The Psychopath laying into the coaches for daring to tell him to stand in line without pushing people.“You know, if you could focus just half this negative energy into learning the sport, you could be really good,” The Psychopath is told by a well-meaning coach.“Your wife is an ugly whore,” the 9 year-old psycho responds.This giant, body odor-emitting man-child towers over everyone else at the camp. If he has any coordination at all, all the coaches will tout him as a future superstar. He could go all the way to the pros!Unfortunately, and unbeknownst to them, his growing days are over. A 5-foot-6 giant now, he’ll be one of the shortest people in his high school graduating class.Minutes after The Injury’s Kid parents hand over a large check to pay for his week of camp, The Injury Kid’s femur will snap in half doing a seemingly innocuous warmup drill.Or maybe The Injury Kid will make it through the first few minutes with his femur intact, but will proceed to suffer minor injury after minor injury throughout the week. Maybe he’s a wimp. Maybe he’s just a tiny Greg Oden with a frail body. One thing we do know is that The Chronically Dehydrated Kid really appreciates all the extra waters breaks in camp that come from carting The Injury Kid off the field.The Kid Who Hates Sports hates sports. He likes science. Or art. Or music. Or maybe nothing. But he definitely doesn’t like sports.Yet his dad really wants him to like sports. So he hit upon the genius idea of forcing his kid to attend a sports camp and play a sport all day for five days in a row. This plan will be not be a success. This kid will go on to be a huge success in his chosen field, but he will always be a disappointment to his father.The Camp Veteran is attending his fifth sports camp of the summer. He has four more after this. His entire camp wardrobe is just t-shirts from other camps. He likes sports and is pretty good and is parents want him to have the best — or at least most — instruction so he can reach his potential.He will get burned out on sports by the end of middle school and quit them all. His parents will try not to wonder what else they could have done with the $95,000 they spent on sports camps.the most important sports takes

During football season Tuesday morning is often met with two different feelings, that of vindication for making the right decisions by selecting players that scored 10 + touchdowns eachI’m currently more in the failure boat. So let’s start from the beginning, last week I wanted to experiment with volume entries — submitting multiple combinations of lineups into one competition. This is how pros, a.k.a., sharks play and I wanted to give it a try — but I wanted to see if it could work at a much smaller scale — pros play with thousands of dollars and up to 500 lineup variations for just one competition — I was going to play with just $195 and up to 45 lineup variations.I decided I was going to focus on the Sunday/Monday Primetime competitions on DraftKings and FanDuel because I wanted to limit the player pool I was using to create my lineups — with the idea that if I had less players in the universe, I had a higher chance of creating a lineup that could pay off. My investment for the competitions was limited to $135 on DraftKings ($3 per entry) and $60 on FanDuel ($5 per entry).The competition included 2 games, Patriots vs. Colts and Giants vs. Eagles for a total player pool of 82. But in reality, the player pool was more like 52 players, with the remaining players not significantly contributing over the first five weeks of the NFL season. Even by limiting the player pool, I didn’t have enough resources to randomly generate lineups and just enter them all — so I had to further limit the pool — and this is where the distinction is made between gambling and a game of skill — I had to make data driven decisions on who would be in my pool and who would not.I created a spreadsheet and looked at the first 5 weeks of scoring for all Patriots, Colts, Eagles and Giants players. From there, I sorted by points scored in week 3 and week 5 (week 4 the Patriots had a bye). Additionally, I started to look at the opponents those players faced during a given week. Based on this info, I identified trends like while Donte Moncrief only scored 0.8 points in week 5, when Andrew Luck is playing, Moncrief scores in double digits or that Eli Manning and Tom Brady are two of the most consistent quarterbacks through week 5 of the NFL.Based off research, I cut the pool from 52 players to 30. The breakdown was:QB: 4 | RB: 7 | WR: 11 | TE: 3 | K: 2 | Defense: 4With those numbers, I looked at the number of combinations that could be made from the pool. For DraftKings, I could make a total of 166,320 combinations and FanDuel a total of 332,640 combinations. Granted, those are just the raw numbers that don’t take into account salary cap — so the number reduces by a lot (I don’t have the specifics) and most competitions limit the number of lineups submissions to 200, 500 or 1,000.With all these possibilities, and without the time and the mental capacity to come up with that many combinations that also fit the salary cap, I decided that I needed help, so I used from there I copied and pasted them back into my excel spreadsheet and went through them and picked the best 45 for DraftKings and 12 for FanDuel. But while selecting the lineups there were questions that still loomed, like will All of these questions and more were running through my head, and while I play a lot of fantasy sports, this was by far one of the more stressful things I have done because while looking at all these variations, I was talking myself into and out of players. For instance, I talked myself out of And so I watched the Pats vs. Colts game and felt good going into Monday night, I was breaking even with lots of players still going. I had played So Monday night came, and Vegas had the Giants vs. Eagles pegged as one of the more high scoring games — and in the first quarter it looked like it was going to be, with But then, the Giants pooped the bed, and players like Come Tuesday morning I was on the failure ship of crappiness with a So what does this all mean? What was the point? The point was I wanted to see if I could play like a shark but on a smaller scale by limiting my player pool and making multiple entries in a single competition.Was it a success? If I were to judge it based off profit, then absolutely not, I finished the weekend negative. But if I were to judge it based off learning a new aspect and strategy in daily fantasy sports, I would say without hesitation, yes.I learned that there is an advantage in playing multiple lineups (duh) but there is a threshold to where that pays off. On FanDuel, I didn’t meet that threshold, 12 lineups out of 137,931 (0.008% of total entries) wasn’t enough to make a significant difference in my chances but on DraftKings, the 45 lineups out of 38,333 (0.12% of total entries) did give me a slight advantage. And while those numbers are ridiculously small, what it really came down to was having the right players in my player pool and not overvaluing or undervaluing specific players, like what happened with And there is some silver lining here, think of it this way, while you may feel like you are at a disadvantage because you don’t play with thousands of dollars and submit nearly 500 entries for each competition, those sharks have a lot of bad lineups and their contributions help inflate the prize pool.Ultimately it gets down to quantity vs. quality. Us smaller players have to focus a lot more on the quality of our lineups, while sharks have the advantage of churning out bad lineups and not being punished as badly for it.Will I do this again? Of course. This weekend I am going to take what I learned and apply it to the Sunday night, Monday night games — and one thing I know for sure is that I am avoiding Eagles players like the plague — they are too unpredictable, so good luck.Cofounder at 

Here we are at the tail end of 2015, the year Just in the last few months, both the Stanford and Notre Dame football programs have begun outfitting their quarterbacks with VR technology for select practices. Gatorade aired a commercial featuring Washington National Bryce Harper in a VR setting, which consumers can download and subsequently use to step into the batter’s box Meanwhile, insurance provider AIG recently unveiled the HAKA 360, allowing rugby fans from around the world to experience the vaunted ceremonial dance of New Zealand’s national rugby union team. During the US Open, American Express invited folks to volley with Maria Sharapova, despite her being sidelined for the Grand Slam event due to injury.Despite the technology’s rapid growth, the most intricate VR experiences still belong to Oculus Rift, the Facebook-owned headset many believe provides the most immersive sensory experience in the world. Boasting deeply rich video and high-quality sound, Oculus Rift’s price point makes it well out of reach for the average consumer, particularly given the technology’s relative infancy. Facebook’s VR brainchild may be fast becoming more seamless and intuitive, but for consumers itching to be dropped into an NBA game or along the baseline of Arthur Ashe Stadium, Oculus Rift remains very much a pie-in-the-sky fantasy — for now.Still, personal VR may be closer to mainstream availability than you think. AIG’s use of low-cost cardboard headsets — in their HAKA360 project and other ventures — hint at VR’s trending towards more portable, and more affordable, incarnations. By deploying Google’s hyper-light-weight technology, the HAKA360 feed can be easily built by just about anyone.The VR experience itself is built into an app which, coupled with a good set of headphones, can make for a dizzying, eminently impressive experience.“We took a long time to develop the app,” AIG’s Daniel Glantz said during an October interview. “And it delivers the experience we think consumers are looking for, putting you front and center with The All Blacks as they go through their legendary ritual. It is a pretty amazing experience and continues to evolve.”For AIG, the global sponsor of the All Blacks’ HAKA360, the use of VR goes well beyond sport. Glantz in particular noted that the technology, owing to ever-lowering costs, will be adapted to fit the meat-and-potatoes of their business — insurance, accident evaluation, and the like — within the coming year.“No question, we see this technology evolving and being introduced in safety and training programs,” Glantz noted during an interview with Rick Horrow, Sports Business Analyst for CNN and Fox Sports, at the Rugby World Cup in September. “Similar to what you’re seeing with athletes, high performance, physical, and technical jobs will start to interact with VR technology for better on the job performance and scenario training and gaming.”Of course, the true potential of VR will be realized not in the nether-departments of Fortune 500 companies, but in the escapist desires of individual consumers. Sitting at center court while LeBron James tosses chalk; crouching in goal with Henrik Lundqvist: this is the future of VR, and the leagues — its teams, players, and brain trusts — intend to get us there. Possibly within a year.More encouraging still, industry sources say the Facebook-Oculus partnership could soon spawn a more affordable, portable, and far less clunky consumer-VR experience. Meanwhile, companies like Google and Samsung continue to make their own headway towards full-scale marketplace production.“Let’s face it, our fans now want to be in the action as well as being part of it,” Ted Leonsis, CEO of Monumental Sports  Entertainment and majority owner of the Washington Wizards, Mystics, and Capitals, said at the NYVC Sports Conference. “As a team, we know where and how our younger fans are engaging, and they enjoy the immersive experience, now it’s up to us to perfect it and deliver it at an affordable price to enhance that game day experience.”Leonsis is far from alone in his optimism. Both the NBA and NFL are currently exploring consumer-VR options, as are media brands including OneUp Sports, a company that specializes and which recently acquired the large video news platform Cinesport.“The next big thing in mobile is going to be virtual reality,” said OneUp’s John McCauley. “It will be something that teams and brands will use to better tell their story and will be content that could directly be distributed through the mobile device.”Of course, mass-consumer mobile-VR experiences won’t be limited to sports, what with eGaming, role-playing and fantasy worlds all ripe to join the fray. For now, though, the powers that be in sport seem determined to position themselves in the vanguard of rendering Welcome to 2015. We might not have hydrating pizzas and flying skateboards, but we’re closer than ever to making big-time sports more experiential — and experimental — than ever before. All the while lending one last glimmer of hope to the armchair athlete in all of us.Ive been a Public Relations pro since 1984, and I have owned my own practice since 1999.  My specialties are start-ups, entrepreneurs, sports and technology.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

Todd-ism: Likes cars.Todd-ism: Enjoys pinball.Todd-ism: Wears lots of polo shirts.Todd-ism: Has kind of a doughy body.Todd-ism: Bad haircut.Todd-ism: Dad’s name is Ron.Todd-ism: Grew up in Nebraska.Todd-ism: Below average at his job.Todd-ism: Is a pretty big disappointment to his father.Todd-ism: Has a van.Todd-ism: Clothes don’t fit well.Todd-ism: Had a job that included holding a clipboard.Todd-ism: Has worked as a substitute teacher.Todd-ism: Was born in Dayton, Ohio.Todd-ism: Likes to eat at the same restaurant a lot.Todd-ism: Has a wife named Kristi.Todd-ism: Likes to go hunting in his free time.Todd-ism: Lives in the Midwest.Todd-ism: Lived for a while in Milwaukee.Todd-ism: Worse at the same job than his dad was.Todd-ism: Likes dumb movies and TV shows.Todd-ism: Strongly supported Mitt Romney.Todd-ism: Likes to play golf in his free time.Todd-ism: Has a goatee.the most important sports takes

For roughly two decades of my life, hockey occupied the majority of my time. If I wasn’t training for or playing it, I was thinking about it. While playing junior hockey in Strathroy, Ontario, our coach and mentor, Pat Stapleton, a former Chicago Blackhawks and 1972 Summit Series defenseman, often diagramed three interdependent attributes critical to success in the game, appearing as follows:Since my competitive playing days as a goaltender, I have yet to experience an activity that matches the degree of discipline required in all three elements to reach and sustain peak performance. The isolated yet spotlighted nature of the goaltender position came with unique challenges. A physical, mental, or spiritual lapse at any point in the game could be — and often was — the difference between a save and a goal.I still think about hockey every day. Whether I’m relaxing or working, I’ll be involuntarily, imaginatively, and momentarily back on the ice, looking out through the cage of my helmet. In fact, one of my recurring dreams places me back to age 2o with one final chance to make something of my junior hockey days. Being very much aware of the deficiencies in the interdependent elements of my game that limited my performance and consequently my career, I carry regret. Yet my visualised return to the past also results from the fact that I channel lessons learned from hockey to drive me forward. I corrected my approach too late to salvage a hockey career, but I learned in time to reinforce these lessons in other arenas of life, both military and civilian, where I’ve found that they have universal applicability.I realised — finally — that it was time to move on from the notion of a hockey career almost 10 years ago. Now I’m in what I call the The unique opportunities that hockey provides however, continue, made especially possible by the I jumped at the opportunity to represent Oxford University as a student-athlete by joining the 130 years on, OUIHC, which has progressed to include This past season, we were invited to the Shortly thereafter, each team had its own awards ceremony, with the Men’s taking place at Personally, my season was an abbreviated and odd one. I was awarded ‘Man of the Match’ in a few of the games, including the Varsity Match, despite a double-digit goals against average in those games. I coached for the first time, losing each contest, along with each effort to let my groin heal. And while I was eventually awarded a Blue through a rare process, for which I have the captains of the mens’ sports teams to thank, I had initially forfeited the opportunity (another story for another time) to join my teammates in the earning and receiving of Blues.Unquestionably, hockey’s continuing benefits present themselves in familiar forms. The adversity, the accolades, the winning, the losing, the praise, the criticism, the emotions, the injuries, the network, and the teamwork all create occasions for character development, whether in progress or in the rear-view mirror and learned from upon reflection. I think back to the days of minor hockey, learning the importance of giving a firm handshake when introduced to coaches and scouts, or to the days of junior hockey, moving in with another family away from home after being traded, or to the days of college hockey, balancing the demands of academics and athletics in a new country.Presently, I am reminded of the first lesson I learned in the military: The mission is the top priority, the team comes second, and the individual or self comes third. I joined OUIHC for the opportunity to represent a larger institution that carries with it more history than I will ever carry on my own. Indeed, OUIHC exists because Oxford university exists, unifying the support of students, faculty, and staff and making possible the kind of atmosphere I experienced in NCAA hockey. I’m especially reminded of these values and distinctions by our OUIHC alumni, who demonstrate that the passion and pride last a lifetime. None of us will claim that competing against other British universities was a glorious return to top-tier hockey, but I don’t think that’s ever been the intent. Rather, the intent has been to represent the oldest English speaking institution in the world, in combination with the experience of camaraderie and the odd crew date with the women’s sports teams.I marvel at the opportunities I’ve been afforded years after my competitive goaltending days ended, and I leave Oxford confident that OUIHC will carry on the tradition, the strong values systems, and the drive to throttle Cambridge that’s expected of Oxford University teams. As for my own on-ice activity, I’ll find — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —An A video of the landmark donation made by the McCall MacBain Foundation to the Rhodes Trust (because it adds context)The OUIHC’s OUIHC Women’s Blues OUIHC Men’s Blues Alum 

If you’ve ever criticized a sports team in front of one of the team’s most passionate fans, you’ve likely been accused being a “hater” and had your argument quickly dismissed. It doesn’t matter if you presented objective evidence to demonstrate how you drew your conclusion — e.g., suggesting that an NFL quarterback is bad because his statistics are worse than any other quarterback — because, to these passionate fans, there’s no such thing as a valid argument against the teams they support.Sports fandom is an extremely emotional exercise for many fans and this often causes them to interpret objective criticism of their favorite teams as a personal attack. And this thought process and behavior isn’t exclusive to any one team. Every sports team has fans that vehemently come to its defense the second someone says something even remotely critical of it.But why is this? Why do some sports fans irrationally defend their favorite teams against objective arguments?There are two primary psychological processes at play here: self-categorization and social comparison.So let’s the use the Seattle Seahawks as an example. (I’ve chosen the Seahawks because the team is believed to have one of the most passionate fan bases in the NFL.) Based on what I just explained above, we could expect the following to occur:So, when a hardcore sports fan argues with objective evidence that someone has presented about his favorite team, he is simply using a defense mechanism to protect his own sense of self-worth. The same is true when a sports fan calls another person biased after he criticizes his favorite team; by convincing himself that the other person is biased against the team he supports, the fan is able to ignore the criticism and preserve his positive perception of the team and of himself.If you enjoyed this column, I encourage you to follow me on Twitter Product Designer at Splash. Previously at BarkBox, FrontOffice, and MLB. I love dogs, sports, design, and psychology.

Every sports fan grows up dreaming of being an athlete. When that dream dies, many aspire simply to work in sports. But not all sports jobs are glamorous. In fact, some are completely awful. Here are the 15 Worst Jobs in Sports.The next time you watch a baseball game, pay attention to the players in the dugout. They’re great at putting things in their mouths, but they’re physically incapable of keeping them there. Sunflower seeds, tobacco juice, swishes of Gatorade … they all get spat back onto the dugout floor until they form a thick sludge of disgustingness. By the bottom of the ninth inning, everyone’s spikes-deep in a goo so foul that it’s right on the verge of becoming a sentient being and attacking the clubhouse, and it’s someone’s job to clean it up. Did you get it all clean, guy? Great! Savor this moment. There are only 80 more home games this season!This poor guy spent four years getting an undergrad finance degree and another two years picking up his MBA, but none of his athlete clients listen to him. He gives them solid hedge fund picks and finds creative ways to make their money grow, but their eyes glaze over when he offers his advice. Then the jocks go out and spend their money on solid gold cars and opening a sports bar named after their jersey number. Would anyone blame him for selling a client $3 million worth of Pets.com stock, then moving to Switzerland under an assumed name? We certainly wouldn’t.The WWE may call all of its wrestlers superstars, but some guys are very clearly the opposite of stars. The jobbers are the poor saps who have to walk to the ring and get their asses handed to them by the big names. They spend their lives with their heads wedged into some sweaty guy’s armpit, just waiting to be suplexed or DDT-ed through a table. One false move during the fake fighting and they could end up with a serious injury or worse still, trapped under one of Ric Flair’s breasts. Probably not what they were hoping for when they did those 47 cycles of steroids; losing every night isn’t worth even a little bacne.You got into this job because you love sports and have a passion for their intricacies and rules, but now you’re forced to watch the games you love get desecrated every Saturday morning. Handballs. Pop-ups that fall harmlessly to the dirt. Passes that don’t even reach the line of scrimmage. It’s enough to pain your soul. No, kill your soul. Worse still, you have sit and listen to a pack of idiotic parents applaud this sort of mediocrity. Not even Jon Gruden could find something nice to say about Little Billy’s throwing motion, but still, he gets rewarded with an orange slice and a pat on the back after the game. It’s sickening. All you can do is make the right calls and hope that if anyone sees you in your uniform they mistake you for something more dignified, like a Foot Locker employee.Want to work in auto racing, but worry that you won’t be able to find a job that plays to your true passion of being splashed with gasoline? Don’t fret; we’ve got the perfect position for you. Each pit crew employs a catch-can man who goes over the wall to service the car during a pit stop. The catch-can man’s job is to hold a small can to catch any overflow as the gas man fills the tank. Basically, this guy sits and inhales exhaust fumes all day until it’s time to shine by having overflowing gas sloshed on him. Cheer up, though, nothing’s sexier or more comfortable than an asbestos jumpsuit!When he opened his shop back in ‘88, this guy had visions of riding the sports card craze to a new mansion and someday trading his Alvaro Espinoza rookie card for an Italian sports car. Twenty-plus years later he’s still in the same seedy strip mall, still wearing the same mustard-stained t-shirt, and still watching the same 14-inch TV behind the counter. He’s also grumbling about how none of those damn kids come in anymore now that they’ve got their Pokemons and their Razor Scooters and their sexting. Don’t feel totally bad for him, though. Those sealed cases of ’91 Upper Deck that he used to refer to as My Retirement Fund will provide quite a bit of warmth when he has to burn them after the gas company shuts off his heat, which should be happening sometime in the next couple of months.You’ve got to feel for anyone whose employee orientation sounds like this: “Hi, welcome to your new job at the racetrack! You’ll be dealing with some of the world’s most majestic creatures here. Actually, to be more specific, you’ll be dealing with their poop. Here’s a pitchfork. Pile it over there. Oh, and try not to take too many breaks. Horse poop is like the mail; it never stops coming.”The one saving grace for most of the jobs on this list is that at least you get paid. This poor sap can’t even console himself with $8 an hour. Being a fantasy league commissioner is literally a thankless task. Not a single person has ever said “Thanks, man,” to their fantasy commissioner — and is it ever a task. First you’ve got to round up 11 of your idiot friends and get them to sign up for the league, then you’ve got to hound them for their $50 entry fee and listen to them bitch and moan about the scoring rules and the draft pick that Yahoo randomly assigned them. That’s just before the season, too! Things get even worse when the games start. You’re flooded with emails that read like Supreme Court briefs on why trades aren’t fair, you’re asked to fix the roster of the one guy who just stopped logging into the league page after starting out 0–3, and you’re probably not going to make the playoffs. One season of this and you can see why Bud Selig just quit trying 15 years ago.Most players enter the NFL full of promise. Former Heisman trophy winners enter the league just hoping they don’t end up like O.J. or — even worse — Eric Crouch. Just look at RG3. His career has quickly fallen apart … but is arguably an above-average pro career for a post-1985 Heisman winner. Really. The extended stiff arm on the Heisman trophy should probably have its palm facing upwards as if to ask, “Any spare change? I washed out of the NFL, and the car dealership I tried to open back in my old college town went bust. Nobody wants to catch a pass or buy a Honda from me.”Might want to start shopping that resume around, champ. Something’s telling us there ain’t gonna be a second season. If we want to see awkward, stilted conversations with members of the opposite sex, we’ve got our own lives.Look, we’re going to need for you to field a competitive team in the same league as the Yankees, Angels and Red Sox, but there’s a slight problem: you’re not going to have any money. Now, we’re more than willing to give you the 40 bucks we’ve got in our wallets, but beyond that, you’re on your own in terms of finding player payroll. We’d suggest looking under the couch cushions in the clubhouse. There’s usually at least some change in there; one time we even found a quarter! Got it? Great. Just make sure you win at least 85 games, or you’re fired. Now, we’ve got some errands to run. You don’t know a liquor store that can cash a $30 million revenue-sharing check, do you?You’ve got to feel sorry for this poor bastard. He puts that beautiful and convenient first-down line on the screen for all of us watching at home, and he does a hell of a good job. Yet every time there’s a close call on whether a spot is good enough for a new set of downs, those jackasses in the announce booth always say: Remember, this yellow line is not official … like he just arbitrarily slapped it up there wherever he felt like putting it. Seriously, have you ever seen this guy’s yellow line be anything other than a 100% accurate?Sure, they’ll act all defensive and say that there’s nothing better than watching Wisconsin take on Iowa, but don’t fall for their lies. Big Ten basketball spectators would kill to be certain that any time they headed to a game both teams’ scores would get out of the high 40s. Instead, they’re stuck watching the hardwood equivalent of Ambien. Spare us your rationalizing talk of fundamentals and playing the game the right way, Big Ten. You’d trade all of the lower-level Northwestern season tickets in the world to know what an alley-oop looks like when you see it in person.All that’s in your office is a desk, a chair, a phone, and a poster of Lisa Leslie. You’re pretty sure the phone works, but since you’ve never received a call you can’t be certain. Some day you’ll get a chance to move up to the big time, like selling season tickets for the Continental Indoor Football League. Until then, though, you’ll sit hoping the phone will ring to save you from the indignity of having to go hand out 8,000 extra tickets in front of the local mall on every game day. It’s all of the glitz and glamour of scalping combined with none of the financial rewards!Sometimes the worst jobs seem glamorous to outside observers. Come on, Eli Manning? He’s a starting quarterback in New York! But one look at Eli’s face — which is always clearly telegraphing that he’s less than 10 seconds away from weeping — and you’ll know better. This guy’s got more Super Bowl rings than his big brother, but everyone treats him like the local half-wit who managed to win a hundred bucks on a scratch-off lottery ticket.the most important sports takes

America’s sports hot takers and #thinkpiece generators like little more than to debate who and what shall be forever marked with the asterisk. Because they have no actual power over anything, sportswriters are forced to wield this — * — a tiny keyboard symbol, as their great weapon.The New England Patriots’ Super Bowls should get an asterisk!Barry Bonds’ home run titles should get asterisks!A-Rod should get an asterisk!Everyone gets an asterisk!Has any player or team in sports history ever received an actual asterisk in the record books? I have absolutely no idea. And I don’t care. Because no one outside of the nation’s most self-righteous sports media people think any of this is important or that slapping one of these * beside a name or number in a book that no one reads means something.You can brand an asterisk into Tom Brady’s forehead, it doesn’t change the fact that he has four Super Bowls, tens of millions of dollars and is married to a supermodel who is even richer than him. Asterisks mean absolutely nothing.Yet there must be some sort of middle ground: a way to give these “tainted” sportsmen a right tsk-ing, but do it with all the seriousness it deserves. So let’s do away with the asterisk. This * is too stark. It’s too black and white. Literally.Instead, let’s slap our naughty, rules-breaking sportsmen with this: a sad, little emoji that appears to nearly be on the verge of tears thanks to all the darn tarnishing that has been done to sports!Take that, Patriots. From this day forward, you carry with you a frowny emoji, the same mark a 14-year old texts his mom when she’s late picking him up at the mall from seeing the latest “Avengers” movie.Your crimes have now been dealt with in a manner befitting their severity. Stick that in your legacy.the most important sports takes

A study by the National Institute of Sport in Society found that at any moment of any day in the United States, an average of more than 87 million Americans are enraged by the place their favorite team occupies in online power rankings.“Many have wondered where the discord and anger that is found across society in modern America has come from,” said the study’s director, Michael Walter. “We found that it has coincided exactly with the rise of online power rankings over the past 15–20 years.”Walter and his team found that at any moment, morning to night, more than 87 million American citizens — or more than a quarter of the country’s population — is consumed by anger over the place their team has been given in a power rankings, be it in ones put out by a national site like ESPN.com or an independent blog operated by a single person. That number skyrockets to more than 150 million during football season, or half the population of the country, when college football rankings are factored in.“Americans have trouble moving past what they view as disrespect to their teams in the weekly rankings,” reads the study’s findings. “And even though these rankings enrage them, and are often created for just that reaction, they still seek them out week after week. Even in scientific experiments with mice, the mice are never quite this dumb.”Researchers also discovered that nearly 90% of athletes are motivated each week by power rankings.“As much as they say they don’t care what anyone says about them,” continues the report, “they want to be validated by random people on the Internet. And when they aren’t, they become enraged and vow to prove everyone wrong.”But the study’s veracity is at least somewhat in question. The National Institute of Sport in Society is ranked only 26th in the most recent Research Power Rankings.the most important sports takes

Spelling is a sport because it’s shown on ESPN. That makes it an athletic endeavor on par with basketball, golf, bowling and poker. So that’s established.Now, let’s figure out how to use spelling bee words in our regular sports conversations.All of the following are words from the 2015 Scripps National Spelling Bee. Git yer learnz on!the most important sports takes

the most important sports takes

Here in the Bay Area, it’s an embarrassment of riches when it comes to winning sports teams. Between the San Francisco Giants and their (count em!) three World Series titles in the last five years and the reigning NBA champs, the Golden State Warriors, it’s a good time for Bay Area sports fans.So, why not bring a little of that winning spirit to Dreamforce this year?Three of our Dreamforce speakers know that there’s a lot more that goes into winning than just the guys in uniform. Get to know these Bay Area powerhouse executives before they hit the keynote stage!Larry Baer knows about hitting the ground running in a new management position — in his first year as president and CEO of the Giants, the team went on to nab their second World Series Championship in three years, then a third title in 2014. Now those are some results!As the president and CEO, Baer is responsible for overall day-to-day functioning of the organization and is the “control” person on all Giants, Major League Baseball and industry issues, as well as the key strategist and negotiator of the club’s major business and baseball transactions. Currently, the Giants enjoy the longest active home sellout streak in Major League Baseball with 327 straight games.Throughout his career with the Giants (starting with the chief operating officer position in 1996), Baer has been the recipient of numerous awards, including being named “Person of the Year” by the San Francisco Boys and Girls Club and Harvard Business School’s “Alumnus of the Year” in 2012.With over 40 years of experience in the NBA, Rick Welts is currently in his fifth season as the president and COO of the Warriors, overseeing all business-related operations for the Warriors.Welts’ experience spans across multiple cities, levels and areas of NBA operations, including nine years as an executive with the Phoenix Suns, 17 years with the NBA office in New York, reaching the title of executive vice president, chief marketing officer and president of NBA Properties.Welts is an award-winning marketer, named “Marketer of the Year” by Brandweek in 1998 for his role in launching the WNBA. He also spearheaded the marketing efforts for USA Basketball and the 1992 Olympic “Dream Team.”Bob Myers’ long career in basketball included a spot on the UCLA NCAA championship team in 1995, 14 years as a sports agent, negotiating contracts totaling more than $575 million, and finally landing on the Warriors as an assistant general manager — promoted to general manager after only 12 months.In addition to his team’s NBA championship title in 2015, Myers was named NBA Executive of the Year, an annual award given to the league’s best general manager, as voted by executives from the league’s 30 teams.Want more? Check out this Road to Dreamforce video, featuring ATT Park, home of the SF Giants!The Customer Success PlatformFour days of innovation, fun, and giving back

In terms of close game entertainment value, the 2015 NBA Finals have been super-scintillating-sensational thus far (attribution to Dickie V, duh), with 2 overtime games and the third a 1-point game until the final couple of minutes. Can’t ask for anything more as a casual NBA fan.In terms of style and level of play, let’s call it a flat B, as it’s decent enough to get you through college but nothing worth telling your parents about unsolicited. Cleveland has imposed its will on the series by creating a physical, grind it out pace that favors a team with a huge size advantage. By removing the pace, they’ve certainly hurt Golden State’s rhythm and part of the fun factor, and by increasing the physicality, they’ve also enhanced the craptasticity of some referees. On the other hand, more blown calls = more replays = more Hannah Davis-Directv commercials. Win-win?Monsieur Le Bron Jameiux — he goes to a team mainly because they were about to have 2 other young all-stars to form the next Big 3, those 2 dudes get hurt, and LBJ shocks us all by willing the Cavs to 2 straight unexpected victories, and doing it with somewhat inefficient shooting but career-defining efforts in seemingly every other category. I’m going to say this about LBJ’s current standing among the greats: I have definitely never seen a player with quite his all-world combination of size, skills and athleticism. He isn’t quite the passer Magic was, quite the shooter Bird was or quite the clutch-fadeaway-jumper-over-2-defenders-when-you-need-it type scorer MJ was, but he can and does do just about everything at the all-world level. What we can further state is this: there’s only one Magic, one Bird, one MJ and now one LBJ. Now that’s some effing company right there. For players older than that, it’s hard to compare games with peach baskets to real baskets.All that being said, I predict Warriors to win the series in 6 games, i.e. win 3 straight for those keeping score at home. The reason is simple: LeBron can’t really play any better (assuming Iguodala stays healthy), the Dellavedova pandemic infiltrating the Finals has to be neutralized by either Steve Kerr or sudden lofty expectations or sheer law of averages, and outside of a JR Smith 3 parade, there’s not enough firepower left to maintain the type of wins Cleveland is putting up if the Warriors can just find a few holes in the gameplan to swing 2–3 more possessions in its favor.To be clear I still would not be surprised if the Cavs reach Game 7. I would be a little surprised if the Cavs won in 7, pretty shocked if they won in 6, and absolutely shocked if they win in 5. I am a believer in psyche and timing, and if the Warriors can just pull out Game 4, then Cleveland’s 147-season title drought — and flashbacks to MJ and Elway and Byner and Willie Mays and Jose Mesa and Jim Gray — will weigh down the city and the team like none other. Out here by the Bay, there are 7 world series titles, 7 super bowl titles, 7000 wineries and 7 billion dollar valuations to keep people occupied, aka less pressure.As a completely irrelevant aside, I’ve determined scientifically that LeBron, had he focused on football, would have easily been the best pass-catching tight end in the history of the NFL assuming no career-cutting injuries. My science involves his height-weight proportions, potential top-end speed and leaping ability based on my in-game observation only, knowing Bron Bron was a top wide receiver in Ohio high school football before he shut it down soph-ish year, and thinking his athleticism had to easily trump 2 incredible athletes themselves in Tony Gonzalez and Antonio Gates. Glad he picked basketball, but can’t think of a more clear-cut what-if for modern potential 2-sporters.Let’s keep it all NBA today. All I got, catch you on the flip.

The big news here in Athens this weekend is, of course, UGA graduation, and for us more specifically Nationally, the conversation in sports media is all about I am not a Bill Simmons fan. I don’t like his persona, the attitude he displays, or his podcast antics. But these are aesthetics. Bill Simmons is important because he has ridden the wave of two of the most interesting trends in sports media over the past couple of decades: the proliferation of smart sports and dumb sports.Great, thoughtful writers and reporters have been around sports since the beginning, gaining the most notoriety during the era of the We all know about I’m lumping all of this together and calling smart sports. I love it, of course, because I am an overeducated nerd who wishes he could learn all of this stuff. And as an organization, nobody has done it better than ESPN, which for years has employed writers like And Bill Simmons has been associated with some of the best of it. The one time I met him was at the Despite all the good storytelling and journalism with which he’s been associated, Simmons is not a journalist. He may know a lot about pro basketball, but his knowledge and perspective do not come from covering the sport and learning how it works the way journalists do. ESPN employs a lot of talking heads, and at his worst, Simmons has been just another one of those.I tell my students over and over again that their opinions do not matter; their judgment based on reporting and evidence-gathering does. Obviously a lot of consumers (and producers) of sports media do not value reporting the way I do, but I truly believe that if you’re not there interacting with the people you’re discussing, what value are you adding to the conversation? If you aren’t, you’re writing or talking about merely what’s going on in your own head, and for the overwhelming majority of people the overwhelmingly majority of the time, I don’t hate Simmons for not being a journalist and I’m not trying to be high-and-mighty about the sanctity of journalism. But Simmon’s worst moments have come from his lack of understanding of what journalism is supposed to be. You do not Obviously I like smart sports and don’t like dumb sports. But nobody should care about that. What I worry about is whether the proliferation of Simmonsiana — blogs, rants, and other intracranial tours — will further erode relationships between sports organizations and the media. If I am the UGA athletic department, or the Hawks, or the Falcons, I know that the talking heads are going to say what they. Moreover, I can reach fans directly through social media and my media partners. So why should I let reporters into my offices and locker rooms?We’re starting to see some people asking just these questions. I did a survey a couple of summers ago suggesting that reporters covering college teams felt access was declining and attempts to control reporting was increasing, while PR reps for those teams (SIDs) disagreed. Bryan Price, the manager of the Cincinnati Reds, went off on Trent Rosecrans (I would argue that the proliferation of navel-gazing and chattering is contributing to these threats to access, although I’m not sure how to verify that. But my concern is that the substantive information gathering and dissemination that the media does is being obstructed and diluted in many ways.Simmons will undoubtedly resurface somewhere, What I really hope is that dumb sports will lose audience to smart sports, but I’m not holding my breath.I teach #journalism and study #sports, #education, and #media at the 

Written by Hrvoje Prpic, Trillenium CEOVirtual reality is already spectacularly entering many industries, creating the kind of experience that will soon become the mainstream. While I’ve already written about Virtual reality has, in the meantime, approached sports with a style.3 months ago, founders and experts of this new technology gathered in San Francisco at the third event of an on-going series, They all agreed that because of its fascinating content, While there are already many interesting projects with So, how will virtual reality training have an impact on athletes? They will train their brains to learn the timing and exactly where they need to look to connect with their receiver on a certain route. A crowd’s noise from the stadium will be included in the training, hence making athletes’ action on the field less appalling.A Michigan colleague football team already trains with VR, thanks to This Los Angeles-based virtual reality company has created several portions of VR content that will help Fans with a ticket to the US Open had a unique opportunity recently to experience Sharapova, the the highest-earning woman athlete shared her first experience with virtual reality:Although the $22tn retail industry now takes the lead as the most expansive platform for virtual reality, sport seems to show an agile way of how beneficial virtual reality would be for the industry. With precise and real-time preparations for the field, the world of sport is now facing the new area of training and coaching, with fans offered the same immersive experience as coaches and sportsmen.Building the players’ physical size and strength has now got an additional feature thanks to virtual reality — building the players’ minds.What are your thought on that?Worlds first #VirtualReality platform for #3D shopping experience! #VR #VCommerce

Pittsburgh Sports “A Complete Misunderstanding” says New StudyAccording to a recent study published in the Journal of Social Behavioral and Psychology, we may have it wrong about Yinzers and their apparent obsession with Pittsburgh Sports. “Apparently no one even likes the Pirates or the Steelers,” said Professor Carl Rodney, Professor of Sociology at the University of Pittsburgh. “It turns out the whole thing is a complete misunderstanding.”The research involved a comprehensive study of over 2,000 die-hard “Yinzers”, chosen specifically for their inability to say the word “down” and “you” correctly. According to the study, the sports fanatics had no idea why they had invested so much time watching other men play with balls and hard, oblong pieces of wood. “I think for me it was the pretty colors,” said an anonymous participant of the study, who recalled that his parents had made him dress in “black and gold” at a very impressionable age. Other participants cited “boredom” and the excuse to “drink alone in a bar without being called an alcoholic” as reasons for their fanaticism.The findings of the study elicited a “unanimous feeling of remorse” among participants, who wished they could get their life back. “If I had known that I actually hate watching sports, I would have done something about it eons ago,” said Benny Fletcher, a carpenter from Squirrel Hill, who realized that with all the time and money wasted on Pittsburgh Sports, he could have carved a life-sized replica of the Taj Mahal.The study even roused the attention of national figures, including First Lady Michelle Obama, who criticized the state for disregarding the importance of health and wellness. “If Pennsylvanians put half as much effort into exercising as they did watching other people exercise, they wouldn’t be ranked among the top twenty states with the highest rates of obesity.”Experts continue to speculate on how this phenomenon occurred in the first place. “I think what we have here is a classic case of people seeking social validation,” remarked Professor Rodney, who led the three-month study. “We all want to be affirmed, even at the cost of pretending to like something that annoys the hell out of us.” Rodney cited similar phenomena, like participating in the ice-bucket challenge, or laughing at pretty girls who have no sense of humor. “It sucks, but what else are you gonna do?”

How many times have you seen thatDraftKings is one of new generation of hyper growth, well-funded gaming startups in Daily Fantasy Sports rapidly changing American sporting culture. These companies want you to bet on your favorite players or team through their app each night when you turn on your TV. Here’s a spoiler alert…people like betting. These TV ads are exposing more and more people who may casually bet on games to try Daily Fantasy Sports….which means those ads are working.With According to an ESPN survey, 118 million Americans, or roughly 38% of the population admitted to betting on sports in 2008 While traditional The growth has investors racing to get in on this new legal goldrush too. VCs and major media companies have bet big on both of FanDuel and DraftKings, investing over $300 million into each company over the last year. FanDuel has While fantasy sports have experienced a meteoritic rise in growth and investment, not everyone is enthusiastic about its impact on culture and business — and we’re not just referencing politicians and social conservatives.“Of course (DFS is) sports betting. It doesn’t mean that it’s subject necessarily to the same laws. You’re risking money on something of an uncertain outcome, and to me that sounds like gambling” said Joe Asher, US CEO of one of the world’s largest betting and gaming companies, William Hill in this Fantasy sites can legally pay their players because the federal government does not define fantasy sports as gambling. Daily Fantasy Sports companies like FanDuel, DraftKings  others operate under legal law becauseWhile established gambling entities struggle with Just look at the evolution of Robert Bowman, head of MLB Advanced Media (and potential future baseball commissioner) who was slow to adopt Daily Fantasy. Just two years ago, Bowman So why the sudden change of heart? Kenny Gersh, EVP of Business at the MLB’s media branch said “Expanding our exclusive partnership with DraftKings will bring new and exciting ways for fans, particularly younger fans, to play daily fantasy baseball.” Leagues recognize they can leverage consumers cravings for fantasy content into higher ratings, more viewership  engage fans during non primetime games. For a sport that is having trouble attracting a younger audience, it seems like a natural move for the MLB to make.The FTSA Other league officials like NBA Commissioner Adam Silver went full monty on betting by advocating for Ultimately, we’re just playing catch up with the UK and most of Europe. Take the The English Premier League which has embraced gambling, running a legal sports book in Wembley Stadium. There are also thousands of sports betting shops regulated on behalf of the government’s Department for Culture, Media and Sport. Soccer stadiums contain gambling kiosks. Publicly traded UK companies make legal online gaming easily accessible from home, via your computer or on the go with mobile apps. The It’s not hard to see how politicians can get behind changing the law with these kind of tax revenues at stake for their constituents…not to mention the campaign donations from all the people and companies who could benefit from the change in the law.As changes in American culture and policy continue to evolve, the illegal sports betting market could bring hundreds of billions of dollars into the gaming business. With the pro leagues embracing daily fantasy sports, consumer interest exploding, and entrepreneurs bringing new game types to this emerging market, we’ve only begun to scratch the surface of the upcoming sports betting boom.CEO  Co-Founder 

Sports / Fantasy Sports / FootballI recently read a post here on Medium that addressed how new product launches in the fantasy sports space are quickly trending away from the social elements that make fantasy sports fun. The over-emphasis on competition, especially with the rise of DFS has come at the cost of the friendly social interactions of casual games.As avid sports fans and fantasy sports players ourselves, that message is something we can closely relate to. In fact, over the past 18 months, our team has been working steadfastly to build products to counteract that trend. We are 8 engineers working on solving this problem — we don’t get paid to do it , but build products because we are passionate about sports.I am happy to announce the launch of Sleeperbot, the first ever Messenger for sports (Available on iOS, Android, and Here are a few highlights from the initial launch:From ‘Kryzewskiville’ to ‘Red Sox Nation’, ‘The Big House’ to ‘Gator Country’, sports is an undeniable force that brings people together.It is in fact one of the most powerful “social networks” on earth; and yet, has been one of the last to break through into the digital realm.For school affinity you can turn to Facebook, for professional identity, there’s Linkedin. Even for DIY kitchen renovation, there’s Pinterest.Sports on the other hand — an arguably more powerful network than any of the above — until today has been mostly relegated to the local pub.Sleeperbot’s mission is to change that.We built a sports messenger because we believe that sports and conversation go hand-in-hand.Unlike a traditional social network, you don’t have to be someone’s friend on Sleeperbot in order to engage in conversation. In fact, we have found that some of the liveliest discussions come from heated rivalries.Whether you are talking to one person, or broadcasting to thousands, messengers are the most direct and efficient mode of communication, especially in an untethered and mobile world.People already have a natural predilection to discuss and debate sports.We are just creating a platform to enable these conversations to flourish in a digital environment, beyond the bricks and mortar confines of traditional venues.Good conversation always starts with good content.Sleeperbot is your local paperboy, your personal news butler, and your “always-in-the-know” best friend.We streamline information discovery by aggregating, curating, and delivering real-time sports news to your fingertips.There is no shortage of sports content on the web; that has never been the issue. The problem has always been one of discoverability, relevancy, and impact.Our algorithms scan the far corners of the Internet for new content so that you don’t have to.As an aggregator, we take a broad sampling of sources to ensure that the information you receive is comprehensive and unbiased.Best of all, our search engines work around the clock, meaning that content on the site is guaranteed to be dynamic.Speed, for us, is measured in fractions of a second. Not only will you be in the know; more often than not you will also be the first to know.Our ability to push “breaking news” is second to none.Sleeperbot harnesses the full power of our highly knowledgeable and engaged user base as our front-line source of information.We are also working diligently on an advanced analytics platform for fantasy sports.With the “gold rush” of daily fantasy sports in full effect, demand for data-driven and community-driven tools that provide an “edge” is at an all-time high.Sleeperbot is in a unique position to innovate in this area. Our team has a diverse skill set that includes statistics, big-data, database management, finance, and UX/UI design.In isolation, none of these skills is a game-changer; but together, the collective allows us to learn, iterate, and ultimately create new tools, methods, and frameworks to analyze fantasy sports performance.Our approach will differ slightly from incumbent analytics providers and the so-called fantasy sports “gurus.”Rather than just give you our opinion, we are curious to hear yours. Our job is to create the tools and frameworks to better enable you to come to those conclusions.Furthermore, individuals are encouraged to use these tools and frameworks, not only for their own independent research, but also as a way to offer advice and feedback to others in the community.Our belief is that community-generated advice (Yelp and Rotten Tomatoes as a few examples) can be a tremendously powerful source of information, and we hope to leverage that untapped resource within Sleeperbot.We hope that you guys check out our new product and support our mission. Any feedback, advice, shares, would be sincerely appreciated.Thanks,Nan from SleeperbotBreaking Fantasy News  Alerts

In February, former NHL hockey player, Naturally, there has been quite a bit of chatter around his passing and the issue of mental health support in professional sports. Olympic medalist and hockey player Hayley Wickenheiser recently published an extremely well-written and thoughtful Both pieces moved me to respond, though I must admit that I’ve had a really hard time reading In conducting my research on the matter, several unanswered questions kept coming up; the biggest being that there doesn’t seem to be many, if any, organized responses by our professional leagues when it comes to transition support for athletes. Looking at the various leagues’ websites doesn’t help much, either, as there is little information for players, families or fans about this issue and what is being done about it. I’ve also emailed the NFL and the NHL Players Associations to learn more, but predictably, no response.Reading books like In her article, Wickenheiser declares:I wholeheartedly agree.Particularly in football and hockey, sports which cause (and celebrate) violent collisions between participants moving at high rates of speed, it is wholly unacceptable that more isn’t done to ensure that players can function after their careers on the field and ice have concluded. And yes, reasonable people can disagree on who ultimately is responsible for enacting a framework to address this problem, and what realistic and cost-effective action should be taken.Some posit that athletes themselves should bear the burden, but what about those who are unable to discern that they need help or that they are at risk for mental illness? Is it the responsibility of the players associations, the owners, the individual teams, the league, a separate governing body, or the government? Maybe it’s a combination. But regardless of the An initiative should probably look something like this:Ultimately, I think by putting programs in place like this, we can begin to shift the culture of sports and how athletes are treated — more like people, less like products.I’m still working on all of this, but think it’s a place we can start.I want both Ms. Wickenheiser and Mr. Carcillo to know that there are people out there trying to help. And while the NHL, the NFL and other professional organizations may not be doing enough; there are people out there that are tirelessly attempting to push them in the right direction. Sports professionals and mental health professionals have spent countless hours thinking about how to better develop athletes before this major transition in their lives and what the needs of the athlete are at each stage in their career and retirement. There just seems to be a lack of adoption and awareness to ensure these tools are placed in the hands that need them most.I can’t presume to know all of the facts about Montador’s untimely death or even very many of them. However, I believe that whatever happened to him might have been avoided if the NHL had transition assistance programs in place. How can we get organizations like the NHL and NFL to provide better support programs or any support programs at all? Who do we need to get in touch with to start or progress the conversation? I’d love your thoughts and feedback on the matter.ICF ACC Professional Coach | Athlete Development Pro | Social Media Fanatic | Boilermaker | Certified Daring Way™ CandidateA Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

Organized youth sports’ have increased dramatically over the past decade which has lead to increase in costs of participation. Twenty years ago, money was a non-issue and the most talented rose to the top. Unfortunately, I cannot say it is the same today. It makes me question if money outweighs talent. I understand finances and expenses are part of the game, but talent should outweigh money. The blue-collar mentality of sports has shifted in the last decade to white-collar.Expensive travel teams, televised events, and national youth rankings have overpowered the youth sports scene. Every boy and girl deserves the opportunity to play at the highest level, yet highly talented kids are losing roster space due to the inability to compete with the financial costs.A parent came up to me the other day asking for advice on this subject. She was stuck between her pocketbook and having her boy play for a highly competitive team. Her son is very talented, but she lacks the financial backing for him to play. Conversations like this make me wonder if youth sports have succumbed to talent being merely what you can afford. The real cost of the game is setting up barriers to entry for players and their right to compete at their talent level due to the financial toll. It only makes me wonder how diluted the talent pool has become and how many gifted players have been lost.We Are Youth Sports // Family-Memories-People-Sports // Instagram: tourny_guy // Twitter: 

With the explosion of connected devices, streaming services and social-media platforms, today’s sports fans are consuming the games they love in different ways than ever before. This combination of mobility and connectivity has resulted into an experience that bleeds far beyond the edges of the big screen, into an endless mesh of alley-oop Vines, non-stop social chatter and water-cooler analysis worthy of the Oakland A’s front office. As a result, fans are enjoying unprecedented immediacy, access and insight into our favorite sports and leagues around the world.What makes these three things — immediacy, access and insight — so powerful in developing loyal and compelling relationships with the teams we follow isn’t the additional information they provide, but the way they make us feel. They actually Product design guru Kathy Sierra calls this phenomenon the “Post-UX UX,” the experience you have after using a product, as opposed to while you use it. It is here where we can see the power in this new fandom: Immediacy means you know the latest news before anybody else (and get to break it to your friends); Access means you can watch nearly any game, anywhere, any time (for me that’s Manchester United vs Liverpool at 930 AM on a Sunday in Brooklyn); and Insight means you know not just what happened, but why (and when to bet on it happening again). In this new connected sports world, you can feel like an Still, with all this technology at our disposal this should be just the tip of the proverbial iceberg. It’s time to think beyond the parameters of the traditional broadcast model and imagine how much farther we can go with all of these tools. Here’s a few good places to start:Forward-thinking stadiums have already implemented ways to make the live experience more seamless, such as apps that integrate fans’ ability to book tickets and parking passes with quick ways to order food and beverages from their seats and find the shortest bathroom lines or best parking areas.We can do better.For example, by leveraging the behavioral and demographic data connected to a ticket buyer’s social profile, stadiums could begin to seat ticket holders near others who would enjoy a similar stadium experience. Parents could introduce their children to the sport near other families, for instance — while superfans clustered a few sections over could enjoy a boisterous atmosphere without impeding more casual viewers.Beyond that, open access to live video feeds from around the court could finally let us see every angle from our seat. Why should the die hard behind one basket miss the crucial and-1 from the other end?Proximity-triggering technology could also play a part in tailoring each fan’s unique experience. Imagine that young first-time visitor learning the game with an on-premises mobile experience that lets them learn fun concepts (like how a double play works) as they become unlocked by live events happening right in front of them.These days everyone’s an analyst, and hypothetical trades and team-building have become almost as fun as watching the games themselves (if not more). Media brands, leagues and teams hold a treasure trove of content and data that traditionally has only been available to professional sports analysts and coaches. It’s time for this to change.Smart leagues and brands have begun to leverage the massive amounts of data and content they’ve accrued over the years to create fan-analysis tools. The NFL offers its All-22 service, which provides fans, for a fee of course, with video of every player on every play of the game. For soccer fans, Opta has led the charge with data widgets that sports bloggers and other amateur specialists can embed into their content, adding greater insight to their analysis.There is a huge opportunity to further engage the wannabe GMs out there with smarter and more beautiful interactive, embeddable and shareable tools for analysis. For example:Giving fans access to better data is one way that technology is making the sports experience more customizable and engaging. Another is to give them new perspectives of the game and players.Virtual reality technology will make it possible to engage fans with the game on the same level as the actual athletes. By putting cameras on players during training or games, teams could use the footage to create one-of-a-kind VR experiences for fans. A fan looking to see what it’s like to be a Kyrie Irving, for example, could strap on a VR headset and go for the ride.Not far behind VR will be the integration of more and more drone footage. As drones get safer, smaller and more automated, they promise to take us out of the booth and into the action, giving us glimpses into the game that we have never seen before, like a top-down shot of the line of scrimmage, or what the quarterback sees downfield as a pass play develops. Very soon, fans should be able to see the game from whatever angle best displays the action.And why stop at just footage? The Players’ Tribune has seen incredible early success by publishing articles written exclusively by current and former professional athletes. For the first time, fans can get insight right from the mind of an athlete, on his or her thought process while they play. Giving players (and coaches and GMs) new platforms to share beyond just traditional media sound bytes and canned reaction interviews is sure to draw us in even farther to our favorite teams.There has truly never been a better time to be a sports fan. But that doesn’t mean we should stop now. Quite the opposite, in fact. With the technology currently at our fingertips, it’s up to us as the fans and makers of sports experiences to usher in this new golden age of fandom, one that goes beyond better broadcasts into something wholly new and entirely more exciting. Game on.Brand and interaction system designer, professional imaginer, friend, maven and (European) football obsessive—usually in that order.

Given the I’ll be attending both days and there are four trends/topics of discussion I’m most interesting in. These are:All four topics deserve a novel, so I’ll do my best to examine these succinctly for the purpose of the upcoming event. I will however predict that my commentary will raise many more questions that it will possibly answer.Before diving in, I also think it’s worth noting that each of the four topics above is directly linked to each of the others. I’ll ensure that some of these correlations are drawn throughout the article.Let’s begin.The last I heard, the average ‘wrist’ life of a wearable device was about 42 days. This isn’t overly surprising as for the most part the first few iterations of many popular wearables such as There are many reasons for this, but the primary one is that outside of basic activity, heart rate and sleep tracking, there isn’t a great deal of genuine insight delivered to users. Contextual correlations aren’t being drawn, predictive advice isn’t being offered and ultimately the initial ‘wow factor’ tends to wear off pretty quickly.Because of the above, I’m ashamed to say I actually lasted less than 42 days with my first ever wearable. Three days in fact.However, my prediction is that this will change somewhat drastically as wearables become embedded.By embedded I don’t necessarily mean implanted under the skin (although this will most certainly be the case). What I mean more literally is that the devices become completely non-evasive. We will not notice that we are wearing them or that they are capturing anything from us.Examples of this that are somewhat of the way there are These devices, and many others, have the capability to more effectively and with greater granularity, capture some very interesting data sets.An example of a wearable that goes almost all the way there is The point of all this is that non-evasive or ‘embedded’ wearables will be completely ubiquitous. Everything will be connected.This of course presents huge opportunities, both for elite sport and within the consumer health and fitness industry to gain far more granular insight, to use data to find and solve high-value problems and to build the commercial and personal value of the wearable ecosystem quite significantly.One of these opportunities that extends far beyond elite sport participation is highlighted well It’s also important to note that everything isn’t fine and dandy; there are many Peter Blanch from Swimming Australia commented pre-event saying, “At some stage there might be a bit of a kickback from the player unions especially around the invasive monitoring of stuff outside the 9–5 workday.”I only disagree with this slightly as I believe there are many ways in which privacy can be up-held as we progress forward.I am hoping that this topic is something that can be discussed in some depth during the Innovation Summit.There’s a lot of talk currently about the huge success of locally founded Catapult Sports and their leadership within the elite sports market. There’s also a lot of supporting data on their Catapult of course isn’t the only player in this general space; Adidas, STATS, Opta, InfoStrada and many others have captured relatively large portions of their respective markets, often taking a sport-by-sport, rather than sport agnostic approach to capturing the market.Each of these products or services serves a purpose for a team, organisation or athlete at the current time.However, these devices tend to be somewhat bulky, and also tend to only be used for a couple of hours each day. What happens the rest of the day? Does an athlete’s environment, or the broader context of their life affect their performance? If yes, how do we know and is there a way to use broader data sets to draw currently unknown correlations? Will these correlations and the diversity of data sets create a more ‘whole’ picture, enabling us to more accurately predict outcomes?Some of the devices, such as Electrozyme mentioned above, have the potential to be worn for longer periods of time. If you combine the emergence of these types of devices with the capability to capture broader, potentially dispirit data sets, then perhaps the capability to draw new and unique insights will be presented.When you think of the potential What will the professional athlete version of What effect will technologies like VR and AR have? Perhaps This is not likely going to play out simply, but again, should be a topic of discussion for some, if not all of the leaders attending the Innovation Summit.This is perhaps the most interesting topic for me given the work I’m currently doing and of course extends Privacy is and always has been contextual. Many are optimistic about the notion of privacy in the I’ve argued that This is absolutely relevant within and outside of elite sports and the comment Peter made above is and will continue to be the common response until the structures and mechanisms exists to embed privacy as a core principal in data sciences and other related technologies or practices.I just hope it becomes a discussion point during the Innovation Summit.Organisations like ESPN, Much of the data that’s being captured on an athlete isn’t necessarily proprietary or sensitive (of course, a lot of it also is!) and some of this is already being shared with fans. This is cool in many ways as the notion of tracking your favourite players every move, whether you’re courtside, in transit (not driving…) or at home on the couch certainly incentivizes a hardcore fan to remain engaged for extended periods of time.The result of this engagement will likely add commercial value to all involved.“With the rollout of wi-fi in stadiums there is a clear and present opportunity to rollout this data direct to fans and deliver insightful contexts into how their favorite players are performing and why,” said Valerio Veo, Head of Product at ESPN.This is another great point. With wi-fi becoming available in stadiums, teams can more effectively utilize their greatest assets (their players) to deliver engaging insights to game attendees.I would argue that this is merely a starting point and that the potential uses of athlete data extend far beyond this, however these ‘potential’ opportunities are yet to be seen.Having said that, the Innovation Summit is yet again the perfect forum to discuss current and future possibilities in this very context.In many ways, I likely haven’t done these hugely important topics a great deal of justice by briefing through them, however I’m imagining this is the start of a much more interesting conversation.I would encourage that you Also, if you’ve got anything to add right now, let’s begin a discussion in the comments section.Sport is experiencing unprecedented change at present and this will only accelerate. Let’s ensure we’re having the meaningful discussions that will help target the biggest challenges, unmet needs and opportunities within sport today.This post originally featured in Former athlete - now exploring vertically oriented platform ecosystem opportunities. EIR 

In a recent interview to pay tribute to his late colleague Bill O’Herlihy, RTÉ soccer pundit Eamon Dunphy described the pursuit of sports as “ a serious matter of popular culture, but at the same time, a bit of fun and joy” . It is this double edged bat, stick or club that sport wields. On one hand, sport revolves around a most basic central premise of two teams chasing a spherical object around a cut field of grass. That core tenant, when viewed from a critical distance can seem rather silly: why In the series finale of ‘Mad Men’, the central character Don Draper appears to have found himself in a spiritual haven, a zen like state of peace and tranquility. Perched on a cliff top with a rushing ocean at his ears, he’s actually dreaming up the premise for one of the most iconic commercials of all time. The Americans may not invent everything, but they’re pretty good at perfecting them. Advertising, commercials, sponsorships, partnerships. If sport exists in Ireland as an important tenant of popular culture and as a representation of history and heritage, it exists in America mainly as the most electrifying way of entertaining the masses. Modern day Gladiators, sparring for your pleasure; with your hero’s apparel on sale right outside the coliseum. Dont get me wrong , the GAA wont open Croke Park unless they can be assured of a crowd of over 20,000 and you will be rightly gouged once inside for fizzy drinks, hot dogs and a pint of black stuff all priced way above the norm. But across the Atlantic its at a different level.Let’s face it, American Sports are MENTAL. Not so much the sports themselves, but how they have been sculpted and shaped by the glacial movements of commercial advertising. The sporting endeavour has become an increasingly irrelevant aspect of the experience and its teams are involved in entertainment first, sport second. Take baseball, its not about how many runs your team scores, its how many corn dogs, beers, slushies and popcorns you can inhale before the Umpire points for the last out and the patrons are shovelled back onto the streets. Take the Superbowl; I once took a class in advertising in University in America. The week after the Easter Sunday of Advertising, class consisted of watching in awe at the art and guile the best minds in the business displayed in crafting these most perfect vehicles for selling, squeezed into the most expensive of shop windows, with more than half a billion sets of eyes stopping by to browse.But its not just the ads, or the money, there are things happening in US sports I believe are truly farcical, let’s see if you agree. Here goes on the Talking Balls edition of : American Sports are mental — An A-Z. First up , A-D!AEvery major American sport has an All-Star series somewhere in the middle of their vast seasons (NFL at the end) where the greatest come to take their bow in front of an adoring and appreciative public. Well, not quite. The basketball weekend has evolved into a bizarre set of skills challenges, circus tricks and show pony stunts. The one true spectacle of worth, the Slam Dunk contest has been so worn out that only first year rookies will compete, with the legends of the game coerced into looking on and waving a towel in mock appreciation. A hat-tip to 2015 winner Zac Levine who breathed a few mouthfuls of air into this unconscious body, but it looks like it’s too late for the defib on this one. A mid-season carnival, fine. Baseball puts a real, tangible prize at the other end of its All-Star exhibition — home diamond advantage to the winning team from the winning conference. It’s sort of incredible that this is offered to such a disposable game, despite the level of diligence that the different leagues pay it. Imagine the Premier League offering 3 extra home games to whatever team sells the most sticker albums. I’m not even going to dignify the NFL with a review of its annual boys on tour trip to Hawai. It’s laughable cabaret show is so lacking in at least half of the game’s content (i.e. defense) its like watching golfers hit drives and irons without having to put out.MENTAL RATING MMMB is for … Boras.Do you know who the most important person in Soccer is ? Not anymore since Alex Ferguson started writing books! Tennis? Rugby? Generally speaking either the most important player (Tiger in his day) or the person in charge of the biggest tournament or competition . The most important people in US Sports, after the commissioners of the leagues are agents, a trend that is beginning to spread across the Atlantic. And the King of Agents is Scott Boras. No man controls the financial fortunes of players, teams and organisations more than Boras. His last 5 big contracts netted his clients a total of 1.15 BILLION DOLLARS in return for a combined 46 years of throwing and hitting baseballs. That’s the GDP of Tonga, x 3.Not only does Boras put intense pressure on General Managers to construct their rosters with complex financial rigidity, very often Boras and other top flight agents can negotiate the destination of the player based upon who can offer him the most money and therefore commission, effectively controlling the destinies of future championships from afar. For example, Lebron James recently returned to his hometown of Cleveland. His agent Rich Paul, ensured that another of his clients Tristan Thompson came along in the deal. On the strength of holding the ace in Lebron James, Paul is negotiating a contract extension far beyond any reasonable assessment of Thompson’s value. It’s an interesting game of poker, but somewhat depressing that no matter how well run an organisation is run, a ruthless agent and high profile star are never behind.MENTAL RATING MMMCAll of us at some stage feel like we are underpaid and overworked. The concept of a ‘permanent post’ has all but disappeared, with jobs subject to funding cycles, philosophies of the prevailing governments and administrations. Consider the attitude then of a professional athlete, who attempts to extract as many years out of a finite resource, in an effort to stockpile enough your majesties to last them and theirs a lifetime. They too, are subject to funding cycles and performance related pay, with contract reviews. There is a great office sign that goes something like : I give 100% every week. 32% on Monday, 16% on Tuesday, you know how this one ends. The funny thing is, that’s exactly how US sports stars view their contracts , leading to phenomenon of the ‘Contract Year’. This is the 12 months leading up to the conclusion of the athlete’s project when the agent makes a frantic call to the client :And so it comes to pass, that in the twilight of an already generous contract, with declining statistics and mediocre production, a player’s performance suddenly rises like sodas on a griddle: for a little bit, and for a while until the fire goes down … see Aramis Ramirez, Dwight Howard, and other great Free Agent ThievesMental Rating MMMMMD is for … Deflate Gate22 Nov 1963 : The day that JFK was gunned down. 09/11/89 : The night the Berlin wall comes down. But where you when; on January 18th 2015, the day that with some level of probability, more probably than possibly not, the night that Tom Brady let the footballs down.In a Judge Dredd-like passing of judgement from a man who doesn’t seem to have a sense of any, Roger Goodell , commissioner of the National Football League suspended the most recognisable athlete in his league, Quarterback of the New England Patriots Tom Brady, for 4 games (25% of a season). This sentence came after a 243 page report produced by Ted Wells found that Brady ‘more probably than not’ had some knowledge that some of the balls used in the NFC Championship game had been deflated below acceptable level of pressure.With arbitration between the sides proving futile, Brady sued the league and won his case, with Judge Goodell has a horrible track record with dealing out discipline to his players. In July 2014 after Ray Rice, now a free agent running back told Commissioner Goodell that he knocked his wife out with a punch in a Las Vegas Casino, Rice was suspended for a total of 2 games. Brady got 4 for possibly / maybe taking out air out of some footballs.In the first half of the game in question when Brady was playing with his allegedly preferred deflated balls he threw for 1 touchdown pass of 1 yard, and also threw an interception. In the second half when the balls had been checked to be properly inflated, he threw better, for more yards and 2 touchdowns. Since the start of the year (where the Patriots are defending champions) the Patriots are undefeated, and Brady has thrown for almost 340 yards per game, the highest average of his career. Go figure the figures.In March 2014 the US Bureau for Statistics reported an increase of 78% in the US population about knowledge of the ideal gas law. Not true, but believable, and an incredible month for a small group of physicists and chemists who starred on SportsCenter and featured in newspaper articles in the Sports section for the first time in their lives. And it was very funny seeing head coach Bill Bellichick come to the microphone and give statements about psi and pounds of pressure, a pressure he had never felt before.Mental rating MMMMMMNext up D — F , stay clicked in !

Author: I now have 5 rings! One short of Michael Jordan.Since I moved to America in 1993, 49ers won in 1994, Giants got three between 2010 and 2014, and now Warriors! Who would have thought that could ever happen… . And before Sharks.But their win this year was so very deserved. The best team not only in basketball, but in all sports today, in my opinion.The parade was awesome! In Oakland. Maybe for the last time. Strong rumors Warriors might move to SF in the near future. Will see. Here are a few images taken by talented photographer I need one more ring to catch up with Jordan. Sharks? Hopefully before I am too old to remember… .Bay Area is so rich in sports. So many great teams, events. And hey, maybe one day our own Photo credit: ‪#‎WarriorsParade‬GOODdler - Impact with gift giving! We are helping charities and individuals to find support. Promoting philanthropy in the world.

In the wake of recent arrests related to alleged corruption within the Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) and the resignation of FIFA President Sepp Blatter, soccer’s premiere governing body has announced a series of sweeping reforms.“Our goal is to not only cleanse the game of corruption, perceived and real, but also to make the game more accessible and interesting to the general public,” said FIFA spokesperson Newt Figgerson.FIFA, along with every other major sports sanctioning organization in the world joined together in a day long conference in Zurich to announce changes to their events to increase the popularity of all sports on a global level.The key reforms are listed below, with quotes from spokespeople from the various sanctioning organizations:Photo by Bic (Wikimedia Commons) [Attribution or CC BY-SA 4.0 (I am hilarious. And, I like pie.We do humor. For submissions and such email: joe(at)thehowlingmonkey.com / All this stuff is owned by the individual authors. We take no ownership or responsibility for any of it. So there.  Subscribe and boisterously demand all those you come in contact with do so as well

Modern sports, since their inception, have always been an outlet for the average civilian to get away from their daily lives and struggles. Whether it’s a tough day at work, a family problem or romantic relationship problem, sports and their franchises have acted as an escape from reality.When tragedies like Sept. 11 occurred, the New York Yankees were the team rallying America during the World Series as it tried to cope with such adversity. When Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast in 2005, the New Orleans Saints lifted the city by beginning its winning tradition that culminated in its first ever Super Bowl in 2011. And when mass hysteria broke out after a bomb exploded at the finish line of the Boston Marathon, the Red Sox were there with a World Series win to aid the city that was mourning the lost of loved ones.This brings us to 2015. With ISIS causing havoc in the countries of Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq, many refugees have fled all across Europe looking to escape terror. To no surprise, many European soccer teams are helping these migrant refugees. Germany and its top Bundesliga (the first division in German soccer) clubs are doing everything possible to help these homeless victims. Bundesliga champion Bayern Munich has stated that the club will donate €1 million to refugee projects that are being constructed by the German government. For the next couple weeks, Bayern is also offering free food, free German classes and camps to teach young kids soccer. Last week in a game against Augsburg, Bayern Munich players were accompanied by a German child in one hand and a refugee child in the other during the pregame walk onto the field in order to support the message of refugee integration.“FC Bayern sees it as its social responsibility to help those fleeing and suffering children, women and men, to support them and accompany them in Germany,” Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, Bayern’s CEO, said in a statement.However, FC Bayern Munich is only one of the many teams that are supporting the cause. Borussia Dortmound, a FC Bayern rival, invited 200 refugees to a match and Schalk 04 started a campaign called “Stand Up if You’re Human.” The campaign promotes acceptance of the refugees even though some in Germany are not very accepting of so many entering the country.With all these efforts from big clubs all across Europe, it only goes to show that sports are more than just a game. Sports and its franchises look to help support its fans and those who are in need on a continuous basis. Although these teams cannot definitively say that they can stop the violence and terror that goes on in the world, they do make an effort to create change. There is no doubt that those who are struggling will find a way get through the hardships when the most famous and successful sports franchises are those who are making effort.Sports writer for SAC Media. Podcaster.College news without the Ink

I’ve been Well, except for As viewers, we lament commentary we deem too quiet, too noisy, not smart enough, too smart, or just generally out of touch. Think Gus Johnson shouting over a soccer match, Dick Vitale being Dick Vitale, or one of the many adequate, but forgettable commentators that we’ve heard a thousand times.That’s how we experience televised sporting events.There’s a significant group of people who want more than what they’re getting from the broadcaster. Why not give it to them? Why not merge two of the great genres, comedy and sports? The best comedians and commentators are nimble improvisers, boasting knowledge, situational awareness, and timing. Why not give viewers this option?This is what a Saturday might look like:Switch to The Masters on CBS.When that’s over, flip to TBS.It could be offered as an alternative option: watch the “normal” broadcast on television or the fun version online, though I’d eventually like to be able to toggle between versions on the same screen (e.g. English, Spanish, Comedy, Normal, etc.).NBC deserves credit for involving Sudeikis in their English Premier League promos, and for snatching up Men In Blazers, but, neither decision was really new. Saturday Night Live (and other comedy shows) have been spoofing SportsCenter, athletes, and leagues for decades.Give the best comedians the stage to improvise next to the best commentators as world-class athletes perform.Creator. Listener. Digital evangelist. A cuvée of satire  serious. 

The Haka is a type of ancient Māori war dance traditionally used on the battlefield, as well as when groups came together in peace — and it is a manifestation of culture. It is the tradition of the New Zealand National Rugby team the “All-Blacks” and a number of other New Zealand sports teams to perform the Haka before international matches. Although not from New Zealand I do admire how the rich culture of the Māori is a central part of the New Zealand national teams. It symbolizes a fierce display of a tribe’s pride, strength and unity.In contemporary sports it is a common goal for clubs and national teams to strive for a high-performance culture. That is, a culture where the whole performance is greater than the sum of all it’s parts. However, from a sport psychology point of view not much is known about what constitutes such high-performance cultures. This has long been described as a twilight zone in the field. We do know a lot about the individual and how to enhance performance. Likewise, we do know a lot about the team and how to create synergi and cohesion. As the pressure on performance directors and coaches increases, sport psychologists attempt to use a range of approaches to help them create and sustain high-performance.Recent findings in sport psychology research suggest that inter-group, intra-group and individual level approaches are qualified to enhance a culture.At the inter-group level high-performance relies on the successful management of power flows. It is a constant acquisition, negotiation, and configuration of multi-stakeholder perceptions and flux of values, assumptions, and practices of the culture. Maintaining a balance and managing this requires great expertise. Hopefully by doing so, your super-star forward does not go to the media and makes a fool of himself just in order for club legends to turn against him as with From our extensive knowledge on group dynamics we can aid the intra-group processes. Team cohesion is a very dynamic construct and varies a lot over time and can be affected by team building. A famous example of a team who utilizes team building is the pro cycling team One of the most important aspects of a high-performance cultures is knowing what is required of you. Not only the athletes, but also the coaches and support team must be cognizant of what is required. Role clarity and awareness is crucial for building and maintaining culture. It ensures that everyone is aware of what they are required to do, thus minimizing doubt in the organization and negativity among members. As it is continuously becoming more necessary to employ a multi-faceted and multidisciplinary support team it is also becoming more important that there is role clarity in order to engender group harmony. A famous anecdote from the world of sport psychology practitioners involves a sport psychologist running on to the field to celebrate a win with the athletes before the coach; as the rest of the support staff including doctors, physios and fitness coaches withdrew to the changing rooms.A new wave in high-performance culture advocates the utilisation of the coach or performance director as a “cultural leader”. It takes it’s starting point in the personal values and characteristics, which are important in a club. These are engrained in the athlete during daily practice of integrated mental training and form an overarching philosophy. A basic premise in this line of thinking is that the culture in a club or group is developed over time and requires patience in order for common history and stability to develop. The group culture is then learned as problems are solved with regards to the group’s survival under pressure. Group culture then shapes how new members are integrated into the group, as well as how to think alike, talk alike, and act alike so members can support and reinforce the best in one another. A “strong” culture can be presumed to exist because of a long common history and low turnover of members.This brings me back to the Haka. It is a physical manifestation of the shared history and culture of the “All Blacks” and symbolizes the values deemed important by the Māori. Pride. Strenght. Unity. Their shared history dates back to 1888 and the values that pervades the team to this day leaves the New Zealand All Blacks at the top of the Bsc. in Sports Science, Masters student in Humanities and Social Sport Science — specialty in Sport psychology and talent development. Owner at athlete|unbound

Whenever somebody asks me if I’m a Laker fan, two things run through my mind:But somewhere between one and two is a dual-part question which requires some I’m not going to decode the first part of that question at length — it’s another article for another time. The answer to the It’s 1994 and I’m wearing a Charlotte Hornets hooded Starter jacket in their iconic team colors — obnoxious turquoise with purple and white accents — on a brisk Autumn morning in Valencia, California. Class hasn’t started yet but it’s the first day of fourth grade and I’m stoked to show off my new NBA jacket to all of my friends and the fifth graders sharing our classroom (the powers that be would place you in a hybrid class of two age-groups depending on your previous year’s academic performance; you wanted to be in the younger half of this experiment because it meant you were smart enough to mingle with students a whole grade-level ahead of you).“You like the Hornets?” inquires Sara. “You aren’t even from Charlotte!” Julie teases, smiling straight through my rolling eyes with a jester’s grin. Polar opposites in every sense of the concept: Julie, tall and thin with a penchant for rolling smaller opponents down grassy campus hills; Sara, short, slightly stout and clearly the brains of this tag-team black ops outfit. Friends since before time immemorial, you mess with one and you’ve picked a fight with a two-headed dragon. Securing their friendship does It’s GO-TIME. The coolest white kid to ever grace the blacktop courts at Charles Helmers Elementary just defended my integrity (he’s got the basketball skills to back up that yearbook photo caption, too — think Jonathan Taylor Thomas with the confidence and handles of Woody Harrelson’s character from ‘White Men Can’t Jump,’ sans the attitude) so I better be damned ready to answer his question with back-of-the-basketball-card type knowledge.“I…”My Adam’s apple lodges midway up my throat and a cold sweat begins to emerge from within the cozy confines of my freshly purchased Hornets jacket. I can feel Derek’s patient stare weighing heavy on my panicked soul, Julie and Sara snickering where they stand. My eyes look to the sky for an answer, as if the clouds would somehow miraculously reveal Alonzo Mourning’s name to me in the form of glorious rays of sunshine.Too bad I have no idea who Alonzo Mourning is.I haven’t the faintest clue who It’s at “I’ll tell you who my favorite player is Brilliant. The ol’ I direct a snake-like sneer toward the girls, who roll their gobstopper eyes as they skip off toward the sandbox — a giant one — adjacent to the grass hill where we stood. “Thanks, Derek.” I stuff my hands deeper into the pockets of my pants instead of raising one up for a high-five. High-fives were cool back then, before shoulder taps evolved from fist-bumps and custom handshakes.“No prob, Kenneth.” The bell rings. Students scramble to their early-morning positions, single file lines assigned to specific spots on the blacktop according to grade level and classroom. Before Derek steals away to his fifth-grade group (half a grade above me because I was a fourth-and-a-half grader, if that makes sense), he says with a wise realization of my lacking knowledge in the Hornets franchise: “Dell Curry, dude. He’s the man.” I nod in blank agreement. “But even though Dell’s Smiling, I throw my hood on and set sail for Mrs. Robinson’s class. I don’t get very far, however — Julie and Sara are back with a plot to ruin my life, or in the very least I lay there for a minute, to both catch my breath and allow for the demon girls to wisp away into the atmosphere.As I trudge back up the hill, I recall my challenge to myself to learn everything I could about the Charlotte Hornets: memorize their player roster, watch their games, deserve my jacket. That day, I had no idea who Larry Johnson was and why he, Muggsy Bogues, and Alonzo Mourning — I would later learn — were perhaps the most endearing teammates of ‘90s NBA outside of Jordan and Pippen. At the time, I had no clue who Glen Rice was and how he terrorized the three-point line like Chris Kyle on a Fallujah rooftop.I didn’t know back then that Jordan and Pippen would steal my L.A. soul like Johnson, Bogues and Mourning before them, that they’d become the bedrock of my very own play style during the formative years of my adolescence, when making friends in junior high meant winning lunchtime basketball games. It didn’t occur to me that while watching the Bulls eviscerate my hometeam Lakers, rookie number 8 (Jordan without the patience and discipline) would catch my eager eye. I had no idea that, from that moment on, I’d be a fan of the Bulls AND the Lakers Never in the farthest reaches of my NBA fantasies would I have predicted that Chicago coaching legend Phil Jackson would eventually join the Lakers as head clipboard holder, followed by the signing of — wait for it — Glen Rice. The stars would align for one particular high school kid during the ‘99-‘00 Laker season, a boy who grew up with not one but Perhaps a Laker fan, then, bleeds purple and gold — yes — but I hadn’t the faintest notion of any of this on that eventful morning in 1994, however…Not yet.Editor-in-Chief at The Treadwell by th¹nkblenderPowered by th¹nkblender™

Everyone must have had their favorite sport sorted during their college or school time and some might have even chosen it as a profession. There is hardly any sport that doesn’t require some or other form of equipment. It is so because these equipment are often standard part of their respective game and have to be used to play it properly. Even sports like swimming require a costume, unless you do not intend to use it at all and wish to use some alternative of your own instead.Therefore it is safe to say that Depending on your seriousness about one such recreational activity, it also shows how much money you are willing to spend on Nowadays Buying these Article Ref.: Sports365.in is an online sports shopping portal and has been actively engaged in this domain since many years. The company is based in Bangalore.

1) Africa’s richest man wants to buy Arsenal — again!2) Manny Pacquiao’s fans sue for non-disclosure of his shoulder injury during a pre-fight medical questionaire:3) However, Floyd Mayweather is more generous, saying that he would be willing to fight again once Pacquiao fully recovers. MayPac 2.0, anyone?4) The L.A Clippers defeated the Houston Rockets in a surprising mid-game turnaround despite their star point guard Chris Paul out with injury.5) The AFL Round 5 ‘Top 10’ highlights video is trending:6) We’re not sure if this is a football game, or warfare. Either way, it’s pretty weird.7) TNT sportscaster Ernie Johnson gives his Sports Emmy for Best Studio Host the daughters of the late Stuart Scott:8) Paul George of the NBA Indiana Pacers donates $10K after a young fan’s family appeals for help to afford a new wheelchair van. You’re the man, Paul George!9) Cristiano Ronaldo moves 1 point ahead of Lionel Messi in the Champions League scoring charts. We can already hear him chuckling!10) Pep Guardiola, however, pays due credit to Messi before Barcelona and Bayern go head-to-head for a place in the Champions League finals. Who are you rooting for?Join the The Home of Sports. Were on a mission to make the world better through sports. Ready to be a HERO? Better start training! By 

Our friends at Silicon Valley VC firm Five stories that illustrate the rise of sports+tech were featured:While the intersection of sports + technology covers a wide set of areas, from wearables to analytics to fan engagement to virtual reality and much more, it’s clear from the set of links that eSports (or gaming) is growing by leaps and bounds.Note: if you want to contribute an article or if you are an entrepreneur, investor or mentor that wants to learn more about startups opportunities in the growing sports tech space, please contact us at Startup Accelerator Connecting Sports, Tech, Media, Gaming, VR, Wearables, Health, Data, Analytics, IoT, Investors, Athletes, Teams, Events, Venues + More.Sports+Tech | Contribute 

Sports franchises usually ebb and flow like the tide; some years are good, some are bad. For the following franchises, pride and prosperity are hard to come by, since each has some glaring errors:It is downright painful to watch the Raiders. None of the marketing companies in the area can fix the problems that the Raiders currently have. The team seems to fire and hire a new coach every 10 minutes. It has become so bad that the ever so faithful Raider fans from Oakland to Utah seem to be losing faith in the team.Fewer fans are going to the games as well. It has made it to the point where they were 32nd in the league in attendance; unprecedented for the loyal “Black Hole.”The NHL made the wise decision to move a hockey team into one of the warmest cities in the nation instead of a chilly place like Utah. It would be difficult for any of the marketing agencies in Arizona to be able to justify having a cold winter sport in a state where cold and winter are basically urban legends. The idea failed miserably and the team went bankrupt in 2009.Since then the team has had a decent amount of success but the fans don’t seem too fired up about it. Despite making the playoffs regularly they still come in at almost dead last out of 30 teams in in the NHL.Owner Daniel Snyder has a huge mess on his hands when it comes to the Washington Redskins. They currently find themselves in a situation where none of the marketing agencies in the surrounding area would want to take on. Since Snyder bought the team in 1999, the organization has changed from a team full of legends like John Riggins and Art Monk, to a team where past-their-prime talents like Donovan Mcnabb and Albert Haynesworth were given generous salaries to play the worst football of their careers.The owner has also alienated almost every fan in the D.C. area by jacking up prices while the team progressively got worse. To add insult to injury, he sued season ticket holders who couldn’t afford to pay for their tickets when the economy crashed. They are also still in the middle of a controversy regarding the racially insensitive team name. This situation is the definition of Vincent Otiede writes for Award-Winning Digital Advertising Agency. BRANDING | DIGITAL | SOCIAL | VIDEO | WEB 801-810-4001

In a daze of sweat, blood and exhaustion I stumble into the finisher’s chute, funneled towards the exit gate like a fish in a teeming net. My body throbs from the accumulated strain of 15 impossibly challenging miles (and 27 Hellish obstacles) but, at last, I’m done. I did it. My first Spartan “Beast” Race. Cross it off the list!As I merge into the horde of haggard finishers looking unmistakably zombie-like, I’m overcome by two acute feelings:Looking around and racking my brain for solutions, I spot something that catches my attention — it’s a massive black poster showcasing a silhouetted super-athlete that reads: “Refuel With Chocolate Milk.” And below this flapping plastic billboard there’s a booth where two sharply-dressed volunteers are handing out — yep, you guessed it — cartons of chocolate milk.I take two. I guzzle them in seconds. I moan in pleasure. I start hobbling away towards the parking lot…and then a thought hits me: “Is chocolate milk At the time, I didn’t know. And — honestly — I didn’t particularly care (I was more concerned with making it to the car without my legs collapsing in piles of lactic acid Jello). But, since then, I’ve investigated this question in-depth and landed on some insights that have changed the way I think about recovery.The short answer? Chocolate milk sucks.The still-short-but-less-decisive answer? It doesn’t In this post I’ll lay out my complete argument against chocolate milk as a “sports recovery beverage.” I’ll also share a simple yet powerful smoothie recipe I call When it comes to controversial foods, dairy’s at the top of the list (next to wheat, meat and sugar). Do a quick Google search and you’ll find an illimitable slew of angry forum posts bashing, or, in rare cases defending the nutritional properties of milk and its creamy cousins. “It’s unnatural!” shouts one group. “No, it’s nature’s perfect food!” shouts the other. But, who’s right? And does dairy have a place in a healthy diet? These are the questions I’ll attempt to answer here.I’ll start with a disappointing confession: I don’t know. And neither does anybody with total conviction. As You see, 10,000 years ago milk wasn’t on the menu for anyone (except, of course, during infancy). It was, definitively, not an option, for people lacked the digestive enzyme (lactase) required to break down the “milk sugar” lactose.But around 8,000 years ago, something happened. In select regions of the world we became, as Daniel Vitalis And it’s not a very large portion. In fact, it may surprise you to learn that over two-thirds of people worldwide are lactose intolerant.So, for most of us, dairy is a “no go.” But (and this is an important “But wait!” I hear you yelping. “Isn’t dairy mucus forming? Isn’t it highly acidic? Doesn’t it promote cancer growth?”Well, while I don’t have time to address each of these questions in depth, here’s what I’ll say: there is a vast chasm of difference between conventional, pasteurized, low-fat supermarket dairy from factory-farmed cows and raw, organic dairy from pastured animals. There’s also a difference between a straight-up glass of milk and fermented dairy or butter (the latter of which contain significantly less of the dubious di-saccharide lactose and are therefore less intestinally jarring).So, yeah. In summary, the dairy debate is not a clear-cut puzzle. And the answer to the question “is dairy healthy?” is, in my eyes, a less-than-satisfactory “it depends.” It depends on the source. It depends on your heritage and genetics. It also depends on your goals and aspirations. However, while I hesitate to take a definitive stance on If you’re an athlete, you’ve probably heard the virtues of chocolate milk touted high and low, so it may come as a surprise to hear me call it a “lousy” recovery drink. But let’s think about it. In the same way the Gator/Power/Whatever Ade is essentially artificially colored sugar-water, conventional chocolate milk is pasteurized dairy from factory-farmed cows combined with Hershey’s “chocolate” (sugar, artificial flavor, brown 4, more sugar). Sure, it’ll give you a quick shot of energy. And if you’re on the verge of death like I was after my C’mon, people. We can do better.I’ll give you a chance to download my In my research for this post, I stumbled upon dozens of articles eagerly citing a “groundbreaking” study that affirms — apparently — chocolate milk’s magical regenerative properties. Basically, the study goes like this:While most people (including the global media) unreservedly accept this study as “proof” of chocolate milk’s superiority, I find it to be, quite honestly, absurd. For a number of reasons (other than the fact that it was funded in-part by the Dairy and Nutrition Council). Here are my top three:Let me ask you something: when’s the last time you exercised to the point of total exhaustion multiple times in one day? For most people, including myself, the answer is a resounding NEVER! And yet, the dairy industry uses a study measuring the performance of extreme endurance athletes to market chocolate milk as a necessary recovery beverage for Average Joes engaged in average training.This is misleading (and potentially destructive). As In other words, the study measures short-term physical output with complete disregard for long-term health consequences. This, in my view, in one of the biggest pitfalls of modern sports science and As And finally, this study (and the vast majority of subsequent studies that have been conducted) compares chocolate milk against barf-worthy Franken fuels like Gatorade. One of the biggest arguments I’ve heard in favor of chocolate milk as a recovery beverage is: “it’s better and cheaper than popular sports drinks.” But, let’s not forget, popular sports drinks are TERRIBLE for you! (A glass of water with a cup of sugar stirred into it would be better and cheaper than popular sports drinks). So, call me crazy, but the fact the chocolate milk outperforms Gatorade* and another bottle of synthetic laboratory juice in a non-applicable extreme endurance trial doesn’t strike me as “proof” that it’s the best post-workout choice.*Oh, wait. I forgot. Chocolate milk While there’s no shortage of lists detailing the “top 5 reasons to drink chocolate milk after your next workout,” there aren’t many summarizing the reasons NOT to drink it. So I made one. Here are my top five reasons to stay away from chocolate milk after your next workout:I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again: chocolate milk contains a teeth-rotting amount of sugar — roughly 12 teaspoons (52 g) per 500ml carton. While this certainly makes it taste heavenly, let’s be real: do you really need to guzzle a QUARTER CUP of refined sugar after each workout? Will that actually promote superior health and athletic performance? Will that help you become, as the Got Chocolate Milk? campaign motto goes, “Built With Chocolate Milk?” I’ll let you answer those questions for yourself.If you think all milk is created equal, think again. While raw, full-fat milk from grass-fed animals can be a nutrient-dense whole food for those who can tolerate it, pasteurized and/or homogenized milk is a processed pseudo-food that has been fundamentally altered from its natural state and is, in general, far more digestively problematic (As While caloric intake certainly isn’t the lone determinant of weight loss success (or failure), it does matter. And, by chugging a bottle of post-workout chocolate milk you are, in a sense, annulling your efforts in one fell gulp. As That’s a typical ingredient list for a bottle of chocolate milk. It’s no wonder this corn syrup slurry has been And lastly, if you’re drinking chocolate milk you’re NOT consuming other, better things. I know this sounds foolishly obvious, but I think it needs to be said. You can only ingest so much in a day, and if you’re an athlete looking to maximize your performance, each food choice should be conscious and deliberate. As After writing the inaugural draft of this post I realized that, after systematically condemning chocolate milk and hinting at other solutions, you’re probably wondering: “If chocolate milk’s such a bad choice, then what SHOULD I drink?”Here’s my answer: unless you’re engaged in serious, hardcore training, nothing. Your next meal should be plenty. However…if you Thanks so much for reading,- LoganAncestral health enthusiast, language learner, digital nomad and rebel leader @ 

Ho 25 anni e da sempre sono stato coinvolto e partecipe nel mondo dello sport. Lo pratico dall’anno zero, ma forse solo ora ho capito che è tutto per me. E tu, È il Le parole L’accessibilità rende lo sport La nostra Ecco perché amo lo sport, ecco perché Community Builder · Passionate of Marketing, Sharing Economy  Innovation · Love doing a lot of different Sports

Sports have a way of tapping into our instincts, bringing out our Ask yourself the question, what does watching sports look like? Does your picture include one person sitting alone or a bunch of people watching together? Watching sports is a collective experience, if you see someone watching a football game alone it is very likely they are at least interacting with other people on their When you’re watching at home on TV, you can only directly interact with the few other people who might be there. This is an advantage of sports bars, where more people can be seen cheering and sharing their predictions with other fans. The ultimate level of collective experience is to actually be at the stadium, with thousands of other screaming fans. No one likes to go to a game when the stadium’s empty, this is one of the few times when we prefer to be in a big crowd.When fans refer to their favorite team using “us” they not only refer to themselves and the team, but to all of the other supporters across the world. Sports bring people together. Not only for the sake of the game, but to share passion with other people.Have any great experiences at a game with friends? Want to learn more about the Homefield mobile app? Email me, Please share!Homefield is the location-based social networking app for sporting events that lets you interact with the entire stadium!

The importance of good logos and branding of a business is important as it is part of the visual identity of the business for their customers. What are your thoughts on the 30 best logos in American sports? Did your favorite make the list?Co-Founder: 

At the end of this September, seventeen months will have passed since when I first made the mental (you can apply the “crazy” definition of “mental” here if you’d like) decision to write more. The months that have followed since May 2014 have allowed me to transform that mental decision into physical proof. From that incredibly spur-of-the-moment decision has come something beautiful.And while I can continue on that rewarding path for decades and decades, I’ve come to a fork in the road. I can either continue going solo or I can collaborate with other like-minded individuals to collectively produce some of the best (written) work of our lives. I choose the latter.Welcome to I’m starting But I am even more excited for the team of columnists and editors we have. I am proud to present Again, can’t wait to show you what all of these guys are capable of — they’ve already wowed me with the bits and pieces of their work that I have seen. And, they’re only going to get better. That’s the main goal with this publication: To improve as writers. If we stay true to that vision and goal, we will all be on our way to creating a publication you love reading.That progression and improvement will take us time. And none of us are probably ready for this — you never are for a step this big. I’m certainly not. But when doubts start to creep in (and they did multiple times in the process of creating this website even), I always remind myself of this: So here’s to a lot of future failures, some successes, and a ton of learning. We’ll do our very best and put in the work. That’s all I can promise. Editor-in-Chief and founder of 



the most important sports takes

This week was filled with quirky readings, like Thompson’s or Shah’s colorful pieces, both of which were good little additions to our usually serious-themed readings. But my favorite piece this week was Amanda Hess’ I felt a connection to this article because 1. I’m female and 2. I’ve been on more on the athletic side my whole life. Hess brought up some points that I agree with, but overall I think this article brings up a bigger issue: Why are we still worrying about boobs in sports in 2015? As mentioned in class, we’re in the time where there are movements like The sixth paragraph in, Hess quotes Rousey saying, “You don’t see big titties in the Olympics and I think that’s for a reason.” I would make the argument that Olympic athletes train so much that they have minimal fat percentages and/or develop muscles in their chests so much that they are left with small breasts.At the same time, I do agree that having large breasts make it harder in some atheltic pursuits like running. I ran cross-country all four years in high school and thanked god that my chest didn’t grow to more than a C-cup because anything more than that would make me complain about running way more. However, I quickly noticed that the girls that had the fastest times had the smallest chests. Not surprising considering excessive running causes fat loss and breasts are essentially sacks of fat (see previous paragraph).One thing that caught my attention was the subject of the “nip slip”. As mentioned by Hess, UFC fighter Ronda Rousey had a near casualty in a 2013 fight, and Nebiat Habtemariam ran 5,000 meters with one breast exposed in 1997. I’m sure a nip slip broadcasted on live television would cause embarrassment, but I think that speaks more about our culture than anything else. If Rousey’s nipple became exposed while Carmouche was grappling her, it would’ve been nice to see Rousey handle it with grace and embracing it rather than letting the media humiliate her with scorn. As a society, we should not be offended by breast and nipple exposure in any situation.Like I mentioned in class, I recently had a near nip slip while at yoga. And, I will admit, I’ve had bikini nip slips (yes, thats plural) emerging from rough surf. Initially there is embarrassment, but I don’t let it bother me for too long because I don’t think its that inappropriate. It’s 2015 and I think that we need to embrace breasts and the nipple a little more. Whether its nip slips on broadcasted athletic events, breastfeeding in public (don’t get me started), or accidental exposure doing whatever it may be.19, hi to chi

HBO Sports® and Mandalay Sports Media, in association with Iconomy® Multi-Media  Entertainment, present the much-anticipated documentary about Hall of Famer Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, the National Basketball Association’s all-time leading scorer with 38,387 points, and six-time MVP and World Champion.KAREEM: MINORITY OF ONE debuts TUESDAY, NOV. 3 (10:00–11:30 p.m. ET/PT), as new basketball seasons begin at the scholastic, collegiate and pro levels, and teams begin the long journey to a championship.Other HBO playdates: Nov. 3 (3:15 a.m.), 7 (9:15 a.m.), 11 (2:00 p.m., 11:30 p.m.), 17 (10:00 a.m., 4:45 p.m.), 21 (1:00 p.m.), 23 (12:15 a.m.) and 26 (8:30 a.m., 5:00 a.m.)HBO2 playdates: Nov. 5 (11:50 a.m., 10:30 p.m.), 9 (4:00 p.m.), 14 (2:00 p.m., 5:00 a.m.), 22 (8:15 a.m.) and 30 (1:45 p.m.)The documentary will also be available on HBO NOW and HBO GO.The film is produced by Deborah Morales, whose credits include the award-winning documentary “On the Shoulders of Giants,” and executive produced by Mike Tollin, whose credits include the Oscar®-nominated documentary “Hank Aaron: Chasing the Dream,” the hit HBO series “Arli$$” and such feature films as “Coach Carter,” “Radio” and “Varsity Blues.”KAREEM: MINORITY OF ONE spotlights an athlete who had an unparalleled impact on, and success in, basketball, and has witnessed numerous landmarks over the past 50 years. The exclusive HBO presentation marks the first time Jabbar has participated in a documentary telling his life story.“Kareem Abdul-Jabbar is a legendary figure and an American sports icon,” notes Ken Hershman, president, HBO Sports. “While he has lived so much of his life in the media spotlight, his extraordinary story has never been explored in depth, and we are grateful to Kareem and his team for allowing us to bring this story to life.”Tollin, co-chairman of Mandalay Sports Media, says the film will “reveal the complexity and genius of Kareem both on and off the court. By his own admission, Abdul-Jabbar has had a complicated and occasionally hostile relationship with the media. This is a unique opportunity to tell all sides of his story.”“Kareem waited more than 20 years to tell his story and we’re delighted to present it on the HBO platform,” says Morales, Jabbar’s longtime personal manager and producing partner. “We’re grateful for the contributions so many have made to this revealing film, which will enable people to understand his life beyond basketball, and Kareem is looking forward to finally sharing his journey with the fans.”Ferdinand Lewis (Lew) Alcindor, Jr. was born in New York City in 1947. After leading his high school team to three consecutive New York City Catholic championships, the 7’2” Alcindor headed west to play for John Wooden and the UCLA Bruins, where he dominated college basketball like never before. Alcindor was two-time Player of the Year (1967, 1969) and three-time First-Team All-American (1967–69), setting multiple UCLA records, including highest scoring average (29 points per game) and most points in a single game (61). During his three years on the UCLA varsity team, Alcindor and the Bruins were 88–2 and won three consecutive NCAA Championships.He remains the only player in history to be named Most Outstanding Player of the Tournament three years in a row and received the first Naismith College Player of the Year Award. After the slam dunk was banned, Alcindor crafted one of the most remarkable collegiate careers in history with his signature skyhook shot. He was called “History’s Greatest Player” by Drafted first overall by the NBA’s Milwaukee Bucks and the ABA’s New York Nets in 1969, Alcindor opted for the NBA, where he captured Rookie of the Year honors in 1970. In 1971, he continued his winning ways alongside newly acquired guard Oscar Robertson, and won the NBA Championship, as well as his first NBA scoring title, NBA MVP and NBA Finals MVP.After winning the NBA championship, Alcindor officially changed his name to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, citing his family’s lineage from slavery and the importance of Islamic tradition during that trying time in American history.In 1974, he requested a trade to a more diverse market and went to the Los Angeles Lakers, where the future NBA Hall of Famer became world-renowned, later pairing with Earvin “Magic” Johnson, Jr., the first overall draft pick in 1979. During the ensuing era, the Lakers became one of the best-known, most-glamorous teams in NBA history, with Abdul-Jabbar and the Lakers winning five of their eight appearances in the NBA Finals. In 1989, after playing 20 pro seasons and scoring 38,387 points, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar retired as the NBA’s All-Time Leading Scorer, a record he still holds.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar’s successes didn’t end with his playing days. He has spoken candidly on a wide variety of subjects and expanded his intellectual and personal horizons beyond the hardwood. Abdul-Jabbar has appeared in dozens of TV shows and movies, often lampooning his own persona, including memorable cameos in “Airplane!” and “Game of Death,” Bruce Lee’s final film. He has also written 11 books, many of them Abdul-Jabbar’s personal journey dovetails with an explosive period in American history. He has a unique and remarkable perspective from which to interpret the country’s past half-century.KAREEM: MINORITY OF ONE provides an intimate glimpse at Abdul-Jabbar through incisive interviews and rare archival footage. Interviewees include former Los Angeles Lakers Pat Riley, Magic Johnson, James Worthy, Jerry West and Jamaal Wilkes; NBA greats Bill Walton, Larry Bird, Oscar Robertson, Elvin Hayes and Julius Erving; celebrities Arsenio Hall, Quincy Jones, Herbie Hancock and Billy Crystal; social commentators Dr. Richard Lapchick and Dr. Cornel West; and a host of family and neighborhood friends from Jabbar’s childhood in New York City.Noted for its unique storytelling ability, HBO Sports has collected 33 Sports EmmyThe executive producers of KAREEM: MINORITY OF ONE are Mike Tollin and Rick Bernstein; producers, Deborah Morales, Jon Weinbach, Bentley Weiner, Clare Lewins, Ron Yassen; narrated by Liev Schreiber; music by Gary Lionelli; written by Aaron Cohen; coordinating producer, Evan Rosenfield; consulting producer, Anna Waterhouse; editors, Reg Wrench, Michael Schultz and Matt Reynolds.Follow Official Medium account for the News and information for HBO  Cinemax.

NEW YORK, Oct. 27, 2015 — HBO Sports’ groundbreaking “24/7” reality franchise, which has captured 18 Sports Emmy® Awards, returns for its 21st multi-part boxing installment with 24/7 COTTO/CANELO, it was announced today by Rick Bernstein, executive producer, HBO Sports. Debuting SATURDAY, NOV. 7 (11:45 p.m.-12:15 a.m. ET/PT), immediately following the “World Championship Boxing” doubleheader that begins at 9:30 p.m. (ET/PT), the behind-the-scenes series follows two elite fighters as they prepare for their pay-per-view middleweight title showdown Nov. 21 at the Mandalay Bay Events Center in Las Vegas.The series will also be available on HBO On Demand®, “The intensity, rivalry and significance of Miguel Cotto of Puerto Rico versus Canelo Alvarez of Mexico will make for great storytelling in this all-new edition of ‘24/7’,” noted Bernstein. “This is a mega-fight that will generate tremendous interest, and we look forward to documenting the multiple storylines generated by this red-hot showdown.”Episode two of 24/7 COTTO/CANELO debuts Thursday, Nov. 19 (11:00–11:30 p.m.), two nights before the high-stakes bout.24/7 COTTO/CANELO will provide exclusive behind-the-scenes access, along with in-depth interviews, as the fighters prepare for their first encounter. The 34-year-old Cotto (40–4, 33 KOs), from Caguas, Puerto Rico, is the reigning lineal world middleweight champ. His formidable foe is 25-year-old Canelo Alvarez (45–1–1, 32 KOs), of Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico, who has turned back an impressive list of challengers.Making his fifth “24/7” appearance, Cotto is working with Hall of Fame trainer Freddie Roach at the famed Wild Card Gym in Hollywood, Cal. Canelo once again is holding camp in San Diego with Eddy Reynoso, his seasoned trainer.24/7 COTTO/CANELO is the latest installment of the acclaimed franchise that began in 2007. Among the most-honored sports series on TV over the past eight years, the show has earned 18 Sports Emmys®.“Cotto vs. Canelo” takes place at the Mandalay Bay Events Center in Las Vegas on Saturday, Nov. 21 at 9:00 p.m. (ET)/6:00 p.m. (PT), and will be produced and distributed live by HBO Pay-Per-View®.The executive producer of 24/7 COTTO/CANELO is Rick Bernstein; senior producer, Dave Harmon; coordinating producer, Bentley Weiner; producers, Abtin Motia and Christine Wilt; writer, Aaron Cohen. Liev Schreiber narrates.Follow Official Medium account for the News and information for HBO  Cinemax.

Over the last few years, we have seen some major changes in the legal restrictions that are associated with sports betting. This is important because it signals a trend that is likely to unfold in greater levels going forward. Of course, it is always best to approach sports betting in a way that is likely to generate consistent profits over time. The best way to accomplish this is to conduct proper research before any betting positions are taken.This might seem complicated, as it can appear difficult to learn all of the intricacies of a horse race, football match, boxing match, etc. Fortunately, there are many free resources available which allow us to access all of the relevant information when dealing with these types of sporting events. One of the best resources in this area is Unfortunately, many new sports bettors jump in too early and start placing bets before they are fully familiar with many of the rules involved. This can create unnecessary losses and and making it difficult to keep your sports betting account alive and active. In addition to this, So no matter which sport you are most interested in following, you can rest assured that Financial Markets, Investments

If you were investing in Sports Sponsorship wouldn’t you want a scorecard to see how teams are performing for their sponsorship partners?ESPN recently came out with an impressive easy to understand @Block6Analytics is shooting to create just such a scorecard.Would you be interested in using it?Drop me a note.Thanks,MitchAdvisor at 

I’m one of those people pretentious enough to call myself a “true fan of the game.” Usually that designation is reserved for crotchety old men who think sports were better back in their day, don’t like fancy new 3-pointers and forward passes, or cringe at the horror of fantasy sports. I’m not one of them — I’m a 20 year-old college kid who does play fantasy football and hasn’t yet become jaded enough to despise the rapid changes of the sports world. But I do believe that the true sports fan is dying, and the saddest evidence of this was the sudden cancellation of Grantland on October 30.Grantland contributed expert analysis, intelligent ideas, and amusing commentary to the landscape of sports and pop culture journalism. Of course, this method was unsustainable and had to die. I’m not here to indict ESPN/Disney for making the decision to end Grantland. A business should have no obligation to support an enterprise which cannot profit, although I do have beef with some of ESPN’s other Grantland embodied the personality of the true sports fan. Its writers possessed the ability to simultaneously love sports without getting caught up in the homerism which frequently distorts the judgment of fans. They were above the constant squabbling which mars sports talk today. Never would they become entrenched in some MJ vs. Lebron battle or adamantly defend Tom Brady like his disciples in South Boston. They favored analytics and reason over foolish loyalty to a mythological god-like player. But they were still able to love these players without becoming entrapped like so many die hards. They could still watch in awe as A true sports fan has an unquenchable desire to understand the game. To him, a pulling guard is just as exciting as a Gronk spike. Grantland took this desire to places previously left untouched by sports journalists. They sought to understand the game the way the coaches and players do. By breaking down film and studying schemes, the staff at Grantland brought this depth and breadth of knowledge to their readers. Too often, sports “fans” get caught up in their simplistic, smarter-than-the-coach dogmas. Advanced metrics were the lances of these analytic knights. Using mathematics to describe sports has been a calling card for the dedicated fan. Those of us who grew up poring over baseball cards and memorizing scoring records will understand. Ever since the analytics revolution in baseball, more and more sports are finding better ways to approximate players and strategies. Going above and beyond points per game and batting average, statistics like WAR, RPM, and DVOA are nuanced. The writers at Grantland could use these metrics to enhance our understanding of the game and predict the outcomes of future contests. However, they were always wise enough to understand the limitations of these approximations. They knew when numbers could be misleading, and they knew that what could happen on any given day could be unpredictable. The true fan yearns to understand sports, but ultimately knows that they are unpredictable. This is what makes sports beautiful.The writers at Grantland had enough wherewithal to sense where phenomena belonged in the zeitgeist of sports. They could sense that basketball was heading to a space-and-pace model; they comprehended how football was changing from the youth to the pros; they chronicled the how each team would rise and fall as general managers put their visions to the test. Anyone who loves sports will always be able to view them on a grand scale, rather than as isolated occurrences. Their ability see the great players of our era and tie them into the lore of sports legends was both exhilarating to a sports fan and a journalism fan. Too often, fans lose sense of the rich history behind each game.Above all, Grantland was deeply human. It is too easy for analysts to get caught up in the numbers. They lose touch of why they loved the game in the first place. Each writer at Grantland wrote with the same sense of wonder that he must have had when he was six years old, marveling at the TV screen and clutching his football tight to his chest. They respected coaches and athletes as humans, not just performers. Their articles included humor far more entertaining than the cheesy gags of SportsCenter anchors. This is a testament to writing prowess rarely found in today’s media, let alone in the wide world of sports.The downfall of Grantland has coincided with the demise of the sports enthusiast. No longer do we care about watching the games; just let us know how many fantasy points my quarterback scored. If you’ve turned on ESPN recently, you’ll see how DraftKings and other cash cows dominate the commercials. And why should we watch a whole game when we can get the best highlights in a Vine? We’ve all seen how fickle fanbases can become (remember when everyone was a Heat fan?). Social media have limited our opinions and analysis to 140 characters. I wish sports broadcasting would stop trying to incorporate hundreds of hashtags in lieu of content. Many of the former players and coaches who now broadcast seem uncomfortable trying to dumb down their understanding of the game for viewers.Despite this, the devout sports fan is not totally dead. Productions like 30 for 30 are still high-quality. Fox Sports is a growing brand that will not be afraid of controversy; smart broadcasters like Colin Cowherd will help lead their efforts. Bill Simmons will enjoy even greater freedom of opinion at HBO. Companies will cater to whatever consumers desire.WE need to evaluate what we want the future of sports media to be. Don’t settle for the mediocre. Professional sports are the supreme display of athletic and physical art. We should treat them and study them like they are. Look at them as both a scientist and an awe-struck child. Don’t cave in to the dumbing-down of our sports society. And above all, love the game.Forced onto Medium by a teacher with the radical notion that writing makes you a better person. Maybe he was right.

“MILITARY TIMES”“Pentagon officials paid at least $6.8 million over the last three years to professional sports teams for “paid patriotism” events like on-field color guards and “free” seats for troops.The findings include 50 professional sports teams and questionable expenses in about two-thirds of the $10 million-plus total the military spent on professional sports marketing efforts since the start of fiscal 2012.Among the events included in the final report:In total, the findings include 50 professional sports teams and questionable expenses in about two-thirds of the $10 million-plus total the military spent on professional sports marketing efforts since the start of fiscal 2012.But McCain and Flake said in many cases owners and management were not aware of the arrangements.Instead, they blasted defense officials for wasting money on the events and confusing the public on which events were paid advertisements and which were sincere appreciation of military efforts.However, McCain added that “it would be entirely appropriate for these sports teams that were awarded taxpayer money to donate that to a worthy cause, causes like wounded warriors or others specific to the men and women serving our nation.”McCain said he did not expect to hold any oversight hearings on the issue. The Defense Department has already promised to end the practice, and the National Football League has promised a full review of its policies and participation in the marketing programs.”Like Loading…Small Business Federal Government Contracting Book Free at web site

You raise an interesting point about European sports betting vs. American sports betting. I’m fascinated by the different continental attitudes regarding sports. European countries, for the most part, have far more socialist economies than the U.S. And yet, American professional sports are far more socialist than European professional sports. English professional soccer is ruthlessly capitalist. There are no salary caps, no profit sharing mechanisms, no player unions, and clubs can buy, sell, and even lease their players. Best of all, teams that finish in the bottom rung of a league are relegated to the next division, whereas teams in the top rung of a division move up into a higher division — hence the title “Premier League.” Europeans see professional sports as a business. Americans, though, see it professional sports as something more. The blatant insider trading makes it difficult for me to see these sites as anything other than unethical at best and illegal at worst. But, beyond these sites, it’s our country’s inability to see sports as just another business that will always make sports betting complicated in the U.S.



the most important sports takes

His maimed fingers, though, turned out to be a blessing when they enabled him to put massive amounts of spin on his pitches. Hitters couldn’t get balls in the air against Brown, and he won 239 games on his way to the Hall of Fame. So, the lesson here is clear: if your Major League dreams are looking improbable, try sticking your hand in a woodchipper. Can’t hurt! (Outside of the excruciating pain.) This is the look you’ll want to go for:And while the picture of Fanny below may not suggest it, she was a confirmed MILTF. (A mom I’d like to do track and field with. Duh.)Here is Mulcahy when he played with the Phillies who are, not coincidentally, the only team to lose 10,000 games. Stop smiling, Hugh. We’re laughing Abel allegedly got the nickname following a fight with NHL legend Maurice “Rocket” Richard. Abel struck first, knocking Richard to the ice, but Richard quickly jumped back up and broke Abel’s nose with a crushing blow. Abel then lived out the rest of his days with a boot-shaped schnoz. The lesson, as always: don’t pick fights with guys named Maurice. They’re just too tough. Ha! Your nose looks like footwear!As you can see, “Sleepy” Floyd was the kindest of two nickname options. The other being “Ugly” Floyd.Oh, that’s right. They made that book into a movie. They’re like books for professional athletes.According to this CBS News obituary, Fats once tipped the scales at … 245 pounds. Hmm. By today’s standards, he would be named Minnesota Slim.Worth mentioning: de Ruiter is also known for playing air guitar to Metallica’s “Enter Sandman” as he enters his matches. Really. We’re not including a photo or video of him because it would likely exceed the site’s douchewidth.Thanks for reading. And enjoy your foot-based nightmare tonight:the most important sports takes

Maas experienced the New York media hysteria 22 years before Linsanity happened. A 22nd round draft pick in 1986, Maas was called up to the Yankees in late June of 1990 as a 25 year-old. The first baseman instantly exploded. Maas set a major league record for fewest at-bats to reach 10 home runs (72) and finished his season with 21 home runs in just 79 games. THE YANKEES HAD FOUND THEIR NEW BABE RUTH!Nope. More like their new Steve Balboni.In 1991 — in a full season — Maas hit just 23 home runs and batted .220. By 1995 his major league career was over, finishing with one home run and a .193 average as a member of the Minnesota Twins.Akili Smith had one good season in his entire life. He started his college career at a prep school before going to Oregon. As a 22 year-old junior in 1997, he completed 54-percent of his passes and threw 13 touchdowns and 7 interceptions for a 7–5 Ducks team. Nothing impressive there.In 1998 he put it all together in one glorious, 12-game run — leading Oregon to an 8–4 record behind 3,763 passing yards and 30 touchdowns. The ever-intelligent Cincinnati Bengals decided that was worthy of the No. 3 overall pick in the draft. Smith went on to have a 52.8 quarterback rating and 2,212 passing yards over four NFL seasons. Whoops, Bengals!Ronald “Flip” Murray was a star at lightly-regarded Division II Shaw University who was drafted in the 2nd Round of the 2002 NBA Draft. In his first two seasons in the NBA he played in 14 total games. With Seattle shooting guard Ray Allen out for the start of the 1993–1994 season due to injury, Murray was thrust into a starting role and lit up the scoreboard — putting up more than 20 points in 10 of his first 11 games. And then it just stopped. He never started more than 25 games in a season and averaged just 9.9 points per game for his career.Carey was called up to the Washington Capitals in 1995 and won his first seven starts in net. This was during the same time Jim Carrey was blowing up due to the Unfortunately, Jim Carey’s career quickly got Ray Finkley. He finished his rookie year 11–6–3 and had another good season in 1995. But the next year he struggled, was dealt to the Bruins in a blockbuster trade and promptly fell apart. His last NHL action was a 4-game stint with the St. Louis Blues in 1998–99.Joe Charboneau was the 1980 American League Rookie of the Year. YAY! Joe Charboneau was also the first Rookie of the Year in baseball history to get demoted to the minors in his second season. Boo.One year later his career was completely over. Just add it to the long list of depressing Cleveland sports stories.A 5th Round draft pick out of Texas Tech in 1987, Smith rushed for only 126 yards as a rookie. But that’s not counting the 204 yards and two touchdowns he put up in the Super Bowl at the end of that season. Smith would rush for only 476 more yards in the rest of his career.Eruzione was the captain of the 1980 “Miracle On Ice” team and scored the game-winning goal against the Soviet Union. Age 25 at the time, his only other experience was playing at Boston University and for the Toledo Goaldiggers of the now-defunct IHL. He retired from the sport after the Olympics.Man o’ War was considered the greatest thoroughbred of all-time. He lost only one race in his career and it was to Upset at the 1919 Sanford Memorial Stakes. Upset never had another significant win on the racetrack.In Ava Lee “Bobo” Holloman’s first career start in 1953 as a 29 year-old rookie, he pitched a no-hitter against the Philadelphia A’s. Less than three months later, Holloman was out of the majors and never returned.Buster Douglas was nearly 30 years-old and had a career record of 29–4–1 when he entered his heavyweight championship fight against undefeated Mike Tyson in 1990 as a 42-to-1 underdog. Ten rounds later, he was the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world.Eight months and two days later, he was no longer the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world because Evander Holyfield beat the crap out of him in three rounds in Douglas’ first title defense. Douglas didn’t fight again for six more years and was never relevant again in the sport.the most important sports takes

AMERICA — Although 14 years have gone by and much has changed since the United States was attacked on September 11, 2001, by terrorists, one thing surely has not: the country’s resolve to forever keep sports in their proper perspective.“It’s really a testament to the intelligence of the American people that we all didn’t immediately go back to focusing on sports above everything else,” said President Barack Obama in an interview today about the 9/11 anniversary. “We said that from that day forward, we would understand what is important in the world and we meant it. The American people were not talking out of their collective ass at all.”The President cited data showing that not once have police been called to a sports bar in the United States since the attacks of 9/11.“Sports bars remain open for the food and drink and so fans can enjoy the athleticism and sportsmanship of the teams,” said former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani. “But there hasn’t been a fight at one over a sports dispute in years. And I saw here in New York that even when Eli Manning struggled, the locals kept it all in perspective and just appreciated that he was doing his best. Especially in New York, only a morally bankrupt, inhuman monster would get upset about sports after witnessing 9/11 firsthand.”Perhaps above all else, 9/11 changed the tone of Internet comments, which were then only in their infancy. Instead of comments that criticize athletes and coaches or attack media members, the average comment section today features messages such as:“They lost, but what beautiful weather outside!”“Sports are just for fun … and what fun they are!”“I’m sure the people we lost on 9/11 would have love to see that last-second turnover because it would mean they are still alive. #NeverForget”The athletes also say they’ve kept sports in perspective.“We now make less than firefighters, police officers, teachers and other public servants, but it’s for the best,” said Patriots quarterback Tom Brady. “We’re just grateful for what we have, like all Americans. We would never try to take advantage of one another or cheat. We are all in this together.”the most important sports takes

Fun Fact: Windass, a striker for Scarborough Athletic, creates space on the pitch with his violently smelly farts.Fun Fact: Shammgod only lasted 20 games in the NBA and is now a teammate of Stephon Marbury’s in China. God clearly curses those who are named in vain.Fun Fact: Uranius Johnson majored in Sport Management at Marshall, not astronomy or taints.Fun Fact: Jim Bob was born in Tennessee and raised by a raccoon and an empty bottle of moonshine.Fun Fact: 13.7% of American women suffer from misty hyman.Fun Fact: Small was on the same Marshall roster with Uranius Johnson in 2005 when the Thundering Herd ran their patented LOLfense.Fun Fact: A Dick Butkus is still illegal in 17 states.Fun Fact: Fair Hooker’s prostitute mother was twice honored by the Better Business Bureau.Fun Fact: Interestingly, Harry Colon’s asshole suffers from alopecia.Fun Fact: Following his playing career, Dick Felt sold and marketed Dick Felt, a felt penis covering designed to prevent chafing. He quickly went bankrupt.Fun Fact: In Japanese, “Yoshie Takeshita” actually means “Diarrhea Sandwich.”Fun Fact: In English, “Steve Sharts” actually means “Steve Has Liquidy Farts.”Fun Fact: First thing every morning, Kyle calls his parents to thank them for not naming him Dick.Fun Fact: Dick Pole made it to the majors thanks to his fastball, curve and ability to make batters giggle to the point of being unable to swing.Fun Fact: Destinee’s parents hope she will not only be a hooker, but a fair hooker.Fun Fact: Paradise’s eponymous autobiography, “Dick Paradise,” has poor reviews on Amazon due to readers who felt the title was misleading and did not expect a book about minor league hockey.Fun Fact: Believe it or not, Dick Shiner never missed an NFL game due to penile bruising.Fun Fact: Glasscock’s turn-of-the-century dildo factory, Captain Jack’s Glasscocks, was shut down after too many customers were injured when the glass broke.Fun Fact: DeWanna Bonner has repeatedly turned down requests from the makers of “JuWanna Mann” to star in a sequel.Fun Fact: Dickshot left the majors to fight in World War II, and thankfully did not sustain a gunshot wound to the penis, because that would just be ridiculous.Fun Fact: Cox was born John Arthur Cox III, but if your last name is Cox, you may as well just go for full humiliation.Fun Fact: Ivana’s twin brother is named Ihava.Fun Fact: A remedy for Rusty Kuntz is a bit of Dick Trickle.Fun Fact: Everyone agrees that Lucious Pusey is better than Rusty Kuntz.the most important sports takes

There has been a significant amount of technological change on the business side of sports in the last few years. Heightened demand for connectivity in venues, the proliferation of mobile devices, and the continued growth of online commerce are example catalysts of recent technological changes in sports business.However, there still exists a reasonable point of view that sports business lags behind other industries in the quality of its technology products and its rate of adopting new technology. Especially in Silicon Valley, we often hear perspectives from technology-savvy fans expressing frustration that the sports industry is not yet able to meet a standard set by other consumer technology experiences (“I wish buying a ticket online was as easy as shopping on Amazon”).We are very progressive at Stanford when it comes to using technology for sports business (e.g., we’ve had an open public Wi-Fi network in our football stadium for five years now) but exceeding the high, Silicon-Valley-influenced expectations of our customers is challenging. We simply haven’t found very many excellent solutions in the marketplace. The 49ers haven’t either, as evidenced by their decision to invest heavily in In general, technology adoption in sports can be slow and product quality often lags compared to commonly encountered consumer web experiences (e.g., Amazon, Twitter). After studying this matter, we’ve come to realize that there are certain structural realties about the sports industry — aside from its relatively traditional business culture — that produce headwinds for the creation and adoption of superb consumer-facing technology. Four reasons for this are commented upon below.Professional teams and colleges compete fiercely for championships, but they do not experience a competitive rivalry among firms for business outcomes such as revenue or market share. Rather, the business fortunes of sports organizations generally rise and fall as a collective group of teams in a league or conference. Additionally, because affiliations in sports are usually based on alumni status or geography, teams do not lose fans and sponsors (i.e., market share) to each other in the same way that consumers may switch between web browsers, music streaming services, or footwear brands.Accordingly, the benefits of being a first-mover or an early adopter of technology are rarely perceived to outweigh the risks. For example, if School A were to release a mobile application before School B, B’s fans do not leave and support A instead. Getting this mobile app to market first does not produce any substantial business advantage for School A over School B. In fact, if School A is very early in its adoption, it is almost certainly better for School B to fast-follow after School A endures the associated inefficiencies and learning costs. We learned this lesson at Stanford from being very early in our implementation of stadium Wi-Fi.Being a first mover or the first to adopt technology can create a huge competitive advantage in some industries (Sports teams, leagues, and conferences must keep up with broad changes in technology over time to ensure their businesses are healthy. However, compared to factors like winning, For good reason, websites, mobile applications, and other digital products offered to fans by teams are often managed centrally. This helps create effective league-wide digital businesses, but it removes any incentive or latitude for teams to improve these products on their own.In many cases, the adoption of digital products that compete with league-managed assets is prohibited. This rightly protects digital business models, but is nonetheless another factor that slows innovation and technology adoption at the local level in sports business.Human capital costs in sports are allocated mainly to sports personnel or business staff who are focused on operations and direct revenue production. Accordingly, teams are less willing to invest heavily in technology talent and must outsource almost all of their consumer-facing technology work.(Exceptions where substantial internal investments are made in technologists — such as the 49ers investment in VenueNext — require the subsequent rendering of services to outside clients in order to generate a positive return on this investment. Not many sports organizations are prepared to proceed in this direction.)Outsourcing creates a slightly problematic misalignment of incentives: Products created by vendors are sold to teams or leagues (i.e., B2B sale), but these products are ultimately used by fans. Consider in-venue mobile applications as an example: A company sells their product to a team so it can be used for a particular number of years. Once this sale is made, whether or not the mobile app is genuinely optimized for the end users (i.e., fans) doesn’t really impact the short-term fortunes of the company who produced and sold it to the team. Sure, a team won’t renew their contract with this company if the product doesn’t prove itself useful — but this “B2B sale of a B2C product” dynamic creates a much different incentive structure than when companies must earn revenue by delivering great experiences directly to users every day (e.g., Ebay, Amazon, Stubhub, etc.).It is an important long-term priority for sports organizations to be proficient at how they manage fan-facing technology. However, as this note hopefully has demonstrated, there are certain dynamics in sports business that make such an effort especially challenging.Senior Associate Athletics Director, Stanford University. Adjunct professor. Former college golfer. Canadian. Ironman.

the most important sports takes

Major League Roller Hockey, anyone?There are hundreds of professional sports leagues overseas that very few Americans have heard of, but what about the unknown leagues in the United States?Our beautiful country boasts one of the best and most unique under-the-radar professional sports circuits, including the following eight leagues that you had no clue existed:Major League Roller Hockey was created in 1998 after Roller Hockey International dissolved and is easily the most thrilling unknown professional league. They seeks to draw former prep, college and semi-pro hockey players and is filled with mostly Americans, Canadians and European players.While the league supports international teams as well, the main competition comes from 15 American teams. A full size indoor hockey rink is used for regular season play but outdoor rinks are used for specialty tournaments.If this video doesn’t make you want to play roller hockey, you’re not human:The wildly non-popular NBL has a whopping three teams in Calgary, Orland and New York…so those geographically separated clubs should help reduce travel costs. Their very brief 2015 round-robin season has games on June 15, June 21 and November 30.This is actually one that won’t come as much of a surprise this week versus last week after ESPN2 aired “Heroes of the Dorm”. The MLG was founded in 2002 and their Pro Circuit includes the following games:Additional games and systems are used during qualifiers and exhibition tournaments. Their most well-known event to date was an X Games tournament June 8–10th for The WBA, in its 11th season, consists of seven teams, all of which are based in Georgia and the Carolinas:The WBA rosters have players with five years or less of professional experience and each team is limited to two players with five years on their final 10-man roster.The AFL was created in 2005 after independent fencers sought separation from the United States Fencing Association, thus creating their own professional circuit. The non-profit league awards both team and individual titles in one of most misunderstood sports in America:The 4-division, 15-team PIHA was founded in 2002 and generally operates under the same principles and rules as Major League Roller Hockey. The Western Conference holds six teams, all of which are based in Colorado and the Eastern Conference has nine teams, all in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.Major League Ultimate is one of two semi-professional ultimate frisbee leagues in the United States. In an attempt to bolster one of the country’s fastest growing sports, MLU began in 2012 and has eight active teams. FOX Sports 1 carried highlights of the 2013 championship game, while ESPN has showcased a few MLU plays in their SportsCenter Top 10.The American Ultimate Disc League is the second of two semi-professional ultimate frisbee leagues and like the MLU, the league was formed in 2012 but carries 17 franchises. The AUDL uses an expanded field and added additional on-field referees.The official Medium account of Next Impulse Sports - Time Magazines 50 Best Websites of 2012.

Sports are great. I love sports. I’ve never played them, but I watch them. And I write about them. As a fan, I get caught up in the moments that, at that time, seem like matters of utmost importance. “If they could just get this win…” or “Why did they leave Player X so wide open in such a critical moment…” Even as a journalist, I can get caught up in the nitty-gritty details, attempting to draw some groundbreaking conclusion about the outcome of a game from a minuscule moment that happened on the field.All of that’s fine. That’s why sports are fun, that’s why we enjoy them. But really? None of that matters.When sports REALLY matter — when they can really make a difference—is when they give people hope. Just last week, Need more convincing that sports can bring hope to people? Ask Lauren Turner, the goalkeeper for Brebeuf. I didn’t know Lauren’s story — the story about Lauren’s mom, the story about Lauren’s family— until I was sitting in the press box at Carroll Stadium Saturday, directly across the field from where Stephanie Turner was likely sitting in her suite, wrapped in her blanket. I saw the Braves run across the field and disappear into Suite No. 7 immediately after winning. I had no idea what they were doing. But I saw Doyel in the aftermath of the victory, and he told me “I’m writing about Lauren.” In that moment, I had no idea what he meant, or what an impact that story would have on thousands of people. I doubt he did either.But that’s the beauty of sports, isn’t it? Sports have a way of bringing hope, bringing healing, bringing the will to hold on for just…one…more…day.So next time you find yourself in knots about play on the field, remember that the power in sports doesn’t come from the numbers on the scoreboard or the stats in the box score. It comes from the hope it brings and the healing it provides, whether in the suite across the field or a village 8,000 miles away.And Stephanie Turner, thank you for holding on. Thank you for being an example to all of us that the beauty of sports has nothing to do with sports at all, but the impact it has on those involved.Visitation: Monday, Nov. 9 … 9:30–11 a.m. Eastern Star ChurchFuneral: 11 a.m.-noonCommittal: Crown Hill Cemetery

Ah, the annual June holidays are upon us. While your kids may be heaving a sigh of relief with the thought of nothing but weekday morning cartoons and computer games, are you wondering how to get your kid off the couch and moving about this month? Or perhaps you’re a not-so-active Mum or Dad who wants to get some exercise into their week without compromising on spending quality time with Junior.Either way, have no fear! Located right in the heart of Singapore, the TreeTop Walk is a beautiful suspension bridge spanning two of the highest points in MacRitchie. Big and little ones alike will be charmed with the bird’s eye view of the surrounding secondary rain-forest and a panoramic view of the nearby Upper Peirce Reservoir.The super-secure walkway is about 250m, and the total hike into Macritchie to reach the walkway is just over 2km. How awesome would it be to start your day with beautiful views of lush greenery amidst the hustle and bustle of the city?The kids don’t have to be left behind in a parent’s pursuit of fitness. One of Singapore’s most well-known personal trainers, Kevin Chiak, has set up With all exercises and equipment designed specially for children imported from the United States, children aged around 6 to 11 years old can now join their parents for a weekly workout that promises to safely improve fitness levels without the fear of muscle soreness, peer pressure or intimidation.Whether you’ve got a dusty old frisbee that you have lying around, a spare soccer ball, or even nothing at all, the rolling green grass at the Botanical Gardens that we all know and love presents unlimited options for a fun, active day out for the whole family. Get extra creative and bring along a picnic lunch from home for a whole new mealtime experience for the kids!From a fascinating Sensory Garden where children can learn about nature through engaging their 5 senses, an incredible tree house, and a mini suspension bridge, Jacob Ballas Childrens’ Garden lives up to its appeal of being the first ever garden designed specifically for children up to 12 years old.In fact, the garden is so child-exclusive that the website quips that ‘all adults must be accompanied by a child’ to enter. How adorable! In fact, you can even The Marina Barrage creates Singapore’s 15th reservoir with a catchment area of 10,000 hectares. However, its wonderful Green Roof is also an excellent place to catch the wind, making it an ideal location to show off your kite-flying prowess. Kites can be purchased at a reasonable price from a shop located at the Barrage itself, but many families bring kites from home for this fun day out.You may already have tried this, but nothing gets old about a breezy afternoon spent rollerblading or bicycling in East Coast Park to the sound of the waves lapping at the shoreline. Your children don’t know how to ride a bike yet? With bicycle rental as cheap as $7 for 2 hours, it’s a great place to show them how!Breaking misconceptions that free-running (or Parkour) is only for the super-fit or super-crazy, local free-running agency A2 Movements has classes designed specially to show children how to take control of their bodies and move gracefully through and over obstacles safely. Perfect for the little boy with tons of energy! For adults, parkour can build functional fitness, improve balance, as well as help build strength.Totally exciting, but also totally safe, The Luge and Skyline will give your children the ride of a lifetime. With your son or daughter in your lap, take a unique wheeled gravity ride that provides riders full control over their descent on a purpose-built track. After which, board the chairlift for a wonderful panoramic view of the Singapore city skyline and the coastline of Sentosa Island.Want your kids to be ‘bully-proof’? Send them for a class over at Kapap Singapore! With specially designed kids classes, your child will learn how to utilise intuitive, gross motor responses and one’s understanding of bio-mechanics to protect themselves in dangerous situations, no matter how big or small they are.Mums and Dads won’t be left out either with Kapap’s Swing Yoga is a fun way for kids to develop confidence. At Go out, be active, and have fun, families!Join the The Home of Sports. Were on a mission to make the world better through sports. Ready to be a HERO? Better start training! By 

My career in competitive sports almost ended before it started.From a very early age, my parents encouraged me to be physically active and participate in sports. When I was ready, I started swim lessons. At the end of the summer’s lessons those of us in the beginner level “bubble group” were invited to compete in a dual meet. For me, this would be my first real official athletic competition and a chance to swim in the same event as the “big kids.”Growing up in Amherst, Massachusetts, I was a happy and secure child, but very sensitive, quite shy and I was easily startled by loud noises. Fireworks were beautiful, but a total nightmare for me (my parents actually had to cover my ears), popping balloons at a birthday party, booming sounds at the circus — were all causes for tears and panic. So there was a major issue looming over the big swim meet — the sound of the starter’s gun.My father knew the starting gun at the swim meet was going to be problematic. When we arrived at Amherst’s Mill River pool he asked the meet organizers if they would consider blowing a whistle to start my event, which is what was done at meets when the starting gun was unavailable. They happily agreed and my dad told me the great news and not to worry, the whistle would be blown to signal the start.As race time neared, I put on my “bubble” and lined up on the wall in my lane to start (no starting blocks at Mill River). I was nervous, but ready to race in the 25 yard freestyle. As my father had prepared me to expect, the starter blew the whistle.Everyone dove in and stated swimming — except for me.I stood just there — totally frozen.And then I started to cry.As my competitors advanced, I saw the crowd cheering for the other kids and I realized what a terrible mistake I had made.I really started to cry.And then, I dove in and I swam as hard as I could.I gave it my absolute all.Due to the dark hue of the Mill River pool, and because I was still crying, I was swallowing water, gasping for air and I could barely see, but I was focused on getting to that wall and finish the race.I thrashed through the water, buoyed only by the bubble and my determination.I finished.Dead last.I got out of the pool and was greeted by my proud parents who wrapped me in a towel, hugged me tight and told me that they were so proud of me. Through the tears I blurted out “please don’t make me swim the backstroke.”I was so sensitive, this moment could have absolutely crushed me, but my mother and father didn’t let it. They made it so positive, reassuring and loving. They focused on the effort and made sure to respect my choice that I didn’t want to swim my second scheduled event, the 25 yard backstroke.There would be other days to motivate and push — this was a time for encouragement and restraint.My parents had a very clear understanding that they were not raising a daughter, they were raising THEIR daughter. Recognizing this distinction was one of the most perceptive and important choices they made with me as parents.On that day, the finish in the 25 yard freestyle was a great result — it was enough. My Mom and Dad were educators, and they trusted their instincts that I would figure it out and learn from it.They were right. I did.I didn’t care that I finished last. I pushed myself to new limits and found something out about who I was in that pool. I couldn’t wait to get back in the water and compete again.Two summers later I was qualifying to swim in the Western Massachusetts Swim Championships. I enjoyed a nice age group swimming career. I went on to earn a varsity letter as a 7th grader on the Williston Northampton School swim team. Unfortunately I had to quit the sport the following year after suffering from severe tendinitis in both shoulders that had started a few years before and was impairing my results and ability to practice and compete well. I played many other sports, but I always missed competitive swimming.It is inevitable for all of us to encounter rocky shoals in our lives. (I have written about some of mine The question we all face in those times? How will you navigate the challenges and persevere?As I have gotten older, I appreciate those early moments in the Mill River pool more and more because it is reminder of how important it is to give your very best effort no matter what challenges, setbacks and failures you may face.When I encounter a situation where I feel overwhelmed, vulnerable and totally defeated, I think of that shy, embarrassed 5 year old girl in the Mill River pool fighting for the finish line.The moment is still so vivid, a huge touchstone moment in my personal growth.It’s a powerful and poignant memory. I am struck by the fact that somehow that experience resonated more than the wins ever did.The story also crystalizes the concept that sometimes our greatest obstacles and the biggest pressures we face in life are the ones we present to ourselves.The stakes may be higher in what I face now, but the lesson remains the same.Sports are defined by the scoreboard, by victories and defeats, winners and losers. Everyone who competes, wants to win. There is great pressure to win and the margins between winning and losing sometimes can be razor thin.I finished last by a large interval that day at the Mill River pool and honestly it may be one of the best things that ever happened to me. It matters because it started something so much larger and profound than a single swim race. It was the gateway to learning the invaluable lessons provided through the prism of sports participation. Swimming started a gradual but substantial change in my personality, my self-confidence and independence, my assertiveness, social skills and emotional development all improved. This forward progress undoubtedly helped me succeed in school.Sports have been vital to my life, first on an amateur participatory level (the way most of us will experience them) and then obviously in my 20 plus year career in the industry working with some of the most recognizable people in sports.I sometimes ponder what my life would have been like without sports. Honestly, I can’t even imagine it. But if I were to venture a guess the picture may faintly resemble another Amherst native, the reclusive Emily Dickinson — without her poetry genius, of course.Sports in general, but swimming in particular, provided me with instrumental lessons, particularly in the formative childhood years. As a member of the Amherst Tritons Swim Team I was introduced to a positive sports culture, surrounded by optimistic people, made wonderful friends, learned the patience and hard work required to train, the importance of teamwork, determination and perseverance, the thrill of competition, how to win humbly and lose gracefully and compete with extraordinary effort and sportsmanship. I had the chance to travel and participate in year-round meets throughout Massachusetts and the New England Championship events at Brown University, which were wonderful growth opportunities for me. I was so fortunate to have excellent instruction and constructive, high quality coaches (Bey Melamed and Russ Yarworth who both coached at UMass).Another aspect of age group swimming that was so vitally important for me was that the girls and boys practiced together. It was a meritocracy. If you were fast, you swam in lane 1, regardless of age group or gender. In practice, we raced against the clock and each other.My Father deserves special commendation, he was a one man gender equity machine for me (my mom too!). My Dad encouraged me to play sports, and ensured that I was offered equal educational opportunities. He took me to the Hickory Ridge Country Club, put the golf club in my hands (a 5 iron) and taught me the game. He “took his daughter to work” and “Leaned In” long before these concepts were part of our modern lexicon and cultural experience.It wasn’t just that my father did these forward thinking and progressive things, it was the way he did it.Without fanfare.The message sent loud and clear was this was normal and the way it was supposed to be.Because of the influence and encouragement of my father and involvement from an early age in this wonderful gender equal swimming ecosystem, I didn’t grow up with a concept of girls having limits on what they could accomplish in sports or in life. I have never regarded sports as a man’s domain or that women’s athletic endeavors or accomplishments were in any way inferior. My life long participation in athletics and career in the sports industry have proved the contrary.Why am I sharing this story?For me — it is important that I remember the people, places and priorities in life that have mattered and made a positive difference. Telling this story is an opportunity for thoughtful reflection and an acknowledgement of experiences and moments that helped shape and define me as a person.For others — there’s a child out there who finished last in their first race/event this summer, or a child who is shy, sensitive, introverted and needs a productive outlet to express themselves. (And there are probably parents trying to figure out exactly how to handle it.)I am a living testament to the transformational power of sports participation, particularly for girls. The idea that the very shy girl that finally dove into the Mill River pool that day, could someday stand in front of a room of international reporters as a PR executive leading a press conference with Olympic swimmers on a goodwill tour throughout China, seemed highly improbable. Swimming both literally and figuratively played a role in that moment becoming a reality. It was one of the proudest moments in my professional career because it was an incredibly successful and meaningful venture, but also one of those rare moments where your life comes full circle.I feel especially blessed to have a mother and father who have loved, encouraged and supported me through the wins and losses, the smiles and the tears, in the three plus decades in my life in sports since that fateful day at Mill River. I am grateful for the wonderful educational, athletic and career opportunities I have enjoyed in my life. I never made it to the Olympics as an athlete, but I did travel to several Olympic Games working as a member of the NBC Sports  Olympics TV broadcast team.As I approach middle age, I am completely secure admitting and embracing I am still a work in progress, committed to continued personal growth. Only I truly know how far I have come from that July night 38 years ago in Amherst, Massachusetts.Occasionally when I cry, I taste the water from the Mill River pool.And I remember the cherished lesson I learned through sports that day — sometimes the “victory” is staying in the game.Principal  Founder KMC Consulting #SportsBiz Strategic PR, Communications, Media  Content Solutions #TV #SportsMarketing #CollegeAthletics #Education #PR

Wednesday night was a memorable night for Team 26-year-old Elena Delle Donne stops at nothing and has proven so by overcoming a battle with Lyme disease. The 6-foot-5 guard/forward has been a standout in her three seasons with the WNBA, leading her team to playoffs for the first time in franchise history in 2013. She’s hoping to repeat this season.She has a league-best regular season average of 23.4 points and is the WNBA’s top free-throw shooter at 95 percent. Additionally, Delle Donne was awarded rookie of the year in 2014. Her biggest dream is to win an NBA Championship.Follow Elena Delle Donne during her playoff journey and also for a glimpse of her life off the basketball court on her Sqor Sports Headlining the list of 108 Hall of Fame nominees is Brett Favre, best known for his fifteen year stint with the Green Bay Packers as quarterback. When Favre retired in 2010, he was the NFL’s career leader in almost every passing category.Other significant accolades include three-time league MVP, 508 touchdown passes, 71,838 yards, 186 victories and the 1997 Super Bowl Championship.Brett expresses his enthusiasm and thanks his fans on his Sqor Sports Voting for the 2016 Pro Football Hall of Fame concludes on February 6, the night before Super Bowl 50. Between four and eight members will be inducted.A social media and editorial sports technology platform revolving exclusively around sports, athletes and fans. 

I thought being in the bleachers meant I didn’t have to worry about concussions and broken bonesWe’ve all witnessed it.In fact, I can’t remember the last time I didn’t witness this in a stadium. Machismo Bro #1 starts talking to Machismo Bro #2. Machismo Bro #2 starts talking back. One thing leads to another and either they both looked hard in front of their lady, their bros, and the home town crowd, or Sports fanaticism is a double edged sword. It brings cities, universities and communities together. A championship can bring hope to cities fresh in the face of tragedy, like we saw in Boston with the Red Sox and the Boston Marathon bombing. It can halt conflict, like when German and British troops But it has a dark side, one that brings out the worst in groups and individuals.Put 50,000+ passionate people in one place, divided by a strong allegiance, and tribalism is born. In an ecstasy of excitement and passion, sports fans lose their rationale and logic, and fall into the instinct of We’ve all studied Now don’t get me wrong, I love a good rivalry. Or should I say, a good It’s called The psychology in the stadium is no different. The hometown fan thinks, The Merely threats at this time. However, neither fan backs down. (Most of the time heavily intoxicated), the situation intensifies. The clash of the alphas begins until someone’s knocked out, an undersized, undertrained security guard steps in, or other fans decide to break it up.But it’s just the machismo bros duking it out, so what’s the worry? Just let them have at it, right? Wrong. This right here is the real reason sports tribalism is a scary thing.Sometimes you’re in the wrong place at the wrong time. Maybe they’re That’s a scary thought. Even more troubling is that there are violence deterrents, but they don’t solve the problem. Limit alcohol sales? Beef up stadium security? Don’t attend away games? Though these may reduce stadium violence, it doesn’t reduce sports tribalism.Call me a wuss, but the best thing you can do is avoid the battle all together. If a fan is belittling you, baiting you based on the color of your jersey, ignore them. They’ll probably get bored anyway. And for whatever reason if it escalates, that’s when you alert authorities before it gets dangerous.Sports tribalism is real. And I’ve never been happier that my roommate added every sports network available onto our TV cable plan.Sometimes pays extra for guacamole // 

Singaporeans have a habit of complaining that Singapore is boring or dull. This list of 10 beautiful spots in Singapore will definitely provide you with “Instagram-worthy” moments that will change your mind!If you haven’t already checked out the new Sports Hub, here is another reason why you should. Along with the new stadium and mall, the developers added a couple of outdoor beach volleyball courts. These courts are free to play on, but you will need to book them in advance through their online Situated by the Kallang basin, these courts are surrounded by the cityscape, but only really come into full glory in the evening, when the setting sun provides a glorious background.Here is a picture I took a while back from the stadium as the sun was setting!Also known as the secret gem of the west. Not too many people know about the gem that is Pandan reservoir. Even some ‘Westies’ have never been here before! Located at Pandan Gardens, this reservoir has a trail that follows the water edge around the entire water body. Runners and canoeists can often be found running and paddling here. If you are lucky, you may even be able to catch a thrilling game of Canoe Polo (Trust me, it is one of the most exciting games to watch).Pandan Reservoir is known for its beautiful sunrises and sunsets. A perfect spot for a run or even a date.Check out this amazing time lapse video if you’re still unconvinced:Yes, I know. Every other article and blog has already covered this place, and that is a good sign that you should go and check the place out for yourself. I live in the West myself, and wouldn’t normally travel to the faraway lands of Punggol, but after seeing some of the pictures my friends showed me, I just had to see it for myself.And boy I must admit, I wish I had this place in the West.Cyclists and joggers can often be found following the park paths which follows the waterway. It is also a great place to bring your family or dogs for a walk. Furthermore, on a clear day, the sunsets here are absolutely spectacular.Check out this aerial view video of the park:Pulau Ubin is known as the place that secondary school students go to for their coming-of-age OBS course. After the dreaded course is over, many would probably not return back. Words will probably not change your mind, so I hope these pictures from a friend of mine will convince you that Pulau Ubin is actually really pretty.Of course you have to work a bit for it, but that’s also part of the fun. To get to some of the spots you have to go for a short hike or if you are feeling adventurous you can rent a mountain bike and ride your way through the rough terrain. But at the end of the day, it’s all worth it when you have a view like this:East Coast Park is another one of those “been-there-done-that” places. Well, I’m sure all of you know how the park looks like. During the weekdays, the serenity of the park and quietness is something that joggers can enjoy.Over the weekend, the park transforms into a melting pot of people doing every outdoor activity you can imagine. From slack-lining, to cycling, to roller-blading, to beach soccer… East Coast Park has everything.East Coast Park isn’t on our list because of its scenery, but because you may be able to get amazing shots of yourself doing crazy sports like water skiing.You can definitely get a new profile picture here!Sentosa has a rather dubious reputation among Singaporeans, mainly because of the high entrance fee and the lack of excitement that surrounds the island. But with the redevelopment of the island, there are some new and exciting activities for you guys to try. One such activity is As the name may suggest, the main attraction is the Megazip, an epic ‘flying-fox’ from the top of Imbiah Hill to a little island called Fox Finish Point just off the beach. The view from the hill while waiting for your turn is just as spectacular as the zip-line.However, the best Instagram moments will come when you bring an action camera with you for the ride, just like the guy in the video below did. You are bound to get some amazing videos and photos to get your friends jealous.I must admit, I was rather hesitant to add this rather odd entry into the list. This is probably not the first place you will think of when deciding on a place to play some sports. The reason why this place is on the list is firstly due to the secluded nature of the area, meaning less people, and secondly because there are a group of niche sports lovers that call this place home.These people are the trail runners, mountain bikers and finally the rock climbers. If you drop by this area, remember to stop for a second and watch as the sun rays cut through the foliage of the trees. You will be pleasantly surprised at the beauty of this place.The rock cliffs, used by the occasional rock climbers, are a perfect backdrop for the perfect picture. Definitely a must-visit place!This list will not be complete without Singapore’s world famous Infinity Pool. The Infinity Pool at Marina Bay Sands (MBS) has become something of an international icon of Singapore. People all around the world recognise this pool due to its spacious water body and insane view you get of the city line. For the swimmers, it really doesn’t get any better than this.However, did you know that the infinity pool located at MBS is not the only one of its kind in Singapore?Firstly, Westin Hotel Singapore too has a spacious infinity pool overlooking the southern side of the CBD. Perfect for a nice relaxing swim.We also have Naumi Hotel. The pool is kind of tiny as compared to the other two on this list but because the hotel is situated just off the CBD area, the view you get is very different from the other two.Unfortunately, MBS, the Westin and Naumi, restrict the pool to guests. You could probably consider it for a staycation in the future. But at least now you know where to get some cool pool-side pictures for your Instagram!Minus the Sports Hub’s technical issues, it has largely been a success. The recent SEA games is proof that the Stadium has what it takes to create an electrifying atmosphere. The design of the ceiling allows natural light to penetrate into the stadium, and can also cover up the stadium to allow man-made lighting fixtures to light up the area at night.The Sports Hub will definitely be used to hold all sorts of sporting events, from Football matches to track events and even concerts. Definitely an Instagram-worthy place in my opinion.10) Marina Bay Waterfront PromenadeLast but not least, we have our much loved Waterfront Promenade. It isn’t hard to see why this place is so popular with corporate running groups who can be found jogging around the promenade after office hours. The backdrop of MBS and the waterbody from Marina bay creates a lovely environment for any sort of sporting activity.In fact, certain Yoga organisations such as Join the The Home of Sports. Were on a mission to make the world better through sports. Ready to be a HERO? Better start training! By 

The other day I was at home flipping back and forth between a Spurs playoff game and a Curb Your Enthusiasm rerun, when I caught one of Charles Barkley’s rants against advanced analytics. Since I am the founder of a sports analytics company, my first reaction was this was just Charles being Charles. But after I thought about it for a minute, I actually began to agree with him to a certain degree.I have played in maybe thousands of pick up basketball games in my life, and I have to admit,Some players can just flat out ball together, and there are no box score statistics that can quantify that intangible.There are certain players that everyone just loves playing with. These players aren’t the ones who have the new Air Jordan’s on, or the players with the full arms sleeves and headbands. They are the guys who make the extra pass before the assist, the guys who box out, the guys who get your help when you don’t get back on defense, and they are the guys who tell you to keep shooting after you clank five misses in a row off the backboard. There are no box score statistics that promote these players, and yet they are an invaluable asset to every team.Our mission at One example of an advanced analytic that I think coaches need to take with a grain of salt is what is called the Tendex. The Tendex is a player evaluation metric that is designed to give coaches one number based on box score statistics to evaluate a player. Usually the formula looks something like this.Although this statistic is nice to have, nine times out of ten it is going to tell you what you already know, and that is, on paper who is your best player.The approach 6th Man Apps takes on the Tendex statistic is instead of applying it to a single player, we apply it to an entire lineup. So for example we tell you “when these five players are on the floor at the same time, here is their Tendex as a unit, and each player indivually.”. This helps explain to coaches why a particular players Tendex sees dramatic fluctuations from game to game.In taking this approach with the Tendex and other advanced analytics, we believe it gives coaches the ability to identify role players in a way that has never be done before.LukeEntrepreneur | iOS Developer | Sports Enthusiast | Rec League All-Star (Self Proclaimed)

By now, most (if not all) of you have seen the insider trading scandal that hit DFS sites this weekend. While some may speculate that this is the straw that breaks the camel’s back, I’d suggest that DFS in its current format has always been broken.Here’s why:I am a proponent that skill factors into long-term fantasy sports success (just as I believe Poker requires significant skill). However, I also recognize that competition in this industry is inherently unbalanced. Predatory behavior is rife on existing DFS sites, with professional “sharks” circling the draft lobbies waiting to take advantage of unsuspecting “fish” attracted by prospects of a big pay day. While we all would like to believe we are the “sharks” in this ecosystem, many of us are more likely to be on the bottom of this food chain. Being bombarded day in and day out with advertisements leading us to the slaughterhouse is an insult to our intelligence.The headline of multi-million dollar prizes has an understandable allure, but the truth is that for the casual player, winning is a pipe dream. The reality, according to a recent sample study conducted by the Sports Business Journal is that 1.3% of users on DFS sites claimed 91% of profits. Separate research by Eilers Research found that 70% of all players on these sites lost money. McKinsey has also done its own study that further supports these findings.A salary cap game, reduced to its core, is a mathematical problem that turns Fantasy Sports into a Pareto optimization exercise. It is perfectly suited for computers, algorithms, scripts, and models to take advantage of — an opportunity and advantage that professionals currently exploit to prey on less equipped casual players. In the near term, this is an arbitrage opportunity, and DFS sharks are milking it for all its worth. In the longer term, the game is destined to become less about player versus player (in the true sense), and increasingly become about player versus computer, and ultimately at its most efficient state, computer versus computer. The ecosystem around DFS is already developing highly sophisticated lineup optimizers, variance analysis tools, budgeting calculators and so on.The problem herein is the unwillingness of existing DFS providers to introduce measures to foster fair competition at the risk of alienating “sharks” and disrupting a cash-cow business. As the saying goes, any dog would be unwise to bite the hand that feeds it. A simple matchmaking system could create a healthier ecosystem, but would rock the boat.To make matters worse, the recent light shed on alleged abuses of insider information in this industry further tilts an already imbalanced playing field. As a user, just ask yourself how many opportunities exist for asymmetrical advantage. Prices on the sites are not set by market mechanisms, but rather by site employees. Ownership percentages (a key variable in determining contrarian outlier plays) are also accessible to these same employees. These are just a few examples. As if we didn’t have enough to worry about with sharks, we now apparently have to worry about Megaladons (i.e., sharks armed with insider information).The 100% deposit bonus these sites promise has come under scrutiny for misleading advertising. Users expecting to get a dollar for dollar match soon come to the realization that they have to play a multiple of their deposit before these funds get released. Citing a class action lawsuit filed in April of this year in Illinois, “At the high end, a consumer who had deposited $600 would have to spend at least $15,000 on contests, and do so within four months, to obtain what was promised as a “100% First-Time Deposit Bonus” or “DOUBLE YOUR CASH” bonus of $600; that would be $14,400 more than his or her initial payment.”It is abundantly clear that the industry needs a new model. One that reintroduces the core values that have made Fantasy Sports a cultural mainstay in the first place — values that have somehow been clouded by the chase for the almighty Dollar.Fantasy Sports are meant to be fun, social, balanced, and fair. As a fantasy sports purist, I believe that these are the elements that make our season long leagues so sticky. There’s no reason we can’t incorporate those same values into the DFS realm.Here are the core values important to my vision of the new DFS model, and some of the elements of what we are building at Sleeperbot (www.sleeperbot.com).My list of values as we set out to build the new DFS model includes:We have made the first step to creating this environment with the beta release of our initial game design this morning. We will also look to continue improving and refining the feature set until we attain the values highlighted above. Hope you will support us in our mission with your feedback.Breaking Fantasy News  Alerts

It’s such a reliable joke you can set your watch to it. A sporting event occurs and someone who doesn’t like sports tweets something like “One team put the ball in the right place more than the other team, woo sportsball I guess”.I’m not here to say sports are great, or that designers need to watch more sports. No. It’s deeper than that: I don’t believe you can be a strong designer without empathy. And the first step towards empathy is not making fun of what other people enjoy.We all do it, of course. But a designer who doesn’t understand a subculture, and who doesn’t actively seek to understand it, and stoops as far as to make fun of it, can’t be great. It’s the the hallmark of designer who got into the field with no higher purpose than designing for themselves in a popular field because everyone else is. Is it any wonder their designs reek of trend chasing and groupthink?Despite what designers say, it’s not that hard to design for yourself. Designing for people different than you is far harder. I once had to design water filter directions for people who didn’t speak English in third world countries. Another time I had to design mainframe software. And then there was the time I designed tsunami alerts for folks living in Japan.All three were a completely different world than designing something I’m familar with. They weren’t even in the same orbit as designing a todo app, a weather app, or a Twitter app. Not that any design is easy, per se, but most designers could create those sorts of apps off the top of their head, without outside input. They do. And it shows.Every type of person, every hobby, every strange subculture you don’t understand holds insights you may not yet have as a designer. And the calling requires those insights if you truly want to design and not just push pixels around.Not that you have to like or understand sports. You just have to like and understand people. If you can’t, if you are quick to dismiss those different than you, you’ll never relate to people unlike you. And you’ll never be a great designer.I love building things.

Being a sports fan with Twitter is hard, but I don’t think I’d ever go back to watching games in the dark. Here’s what I mean.I’m a Warriors fan, and whenever I watch a game, I’m always checking Twitter during timeouts, free throws and half time. I want to see what the local beat reporters at the game are saying. Whether it’s updating everyone about an injury (poor Brandon Rush) or getting an assistant coach’s take on a defensive adjustment, these tweets give extra information I’m not getting from the broadcast. But sometimes it’s distracting. You ask yourself, are you missing out on a Of course, you can always rewind your TiVo to catch the play again, but that brings me my second point. Twitter and TiVo do not get along most of the time.If you ever had to TiVo a game because you have dinner plans, or because you’re running late getting home from work, you know that you should There was an article a couple years ago where someone was pontificating on the lack of enjoyment from watching a TiVo’d game. In the back of his mind, even if he didn’t know the score, he thought that the game he’s watching already happened, and therefore its conclusion had already been decided. “What’s the point in watching,” he thought, if the outcome is finalized already. While I disagree with the overall sentiment (I enjoy TiVo’d games just fine, and every episode of Because Twitter is such an easy way for broadcasters to get an audience reaction to how the team’s doing, broadcasts eagerly put out questions for people to answer. As the image above illustrates, even I can get my semi-informed opinion on the air as long as I can construct a coherent tweet. But what do I know? Why is my opinion on David Lee vs. Carl Landry worth listening to? (It’s not. Not really.) So why are shows like Inside the NBA on TNT putting viewers’ opinions on the same level as analysts?Ultimately, the question becomes “is checking Twitter good or bad during a game.” Like knowing a player’s efficiency is actually low despite his spectacular plays (like the Bucks’ Monta Ellis, for example), Twitter is information that may lessen your enjoyment of what you’re seeing in the moment. Overall, however, you’ve got more knowledge and a bigger picture view of the sport, and more knowledge is always better.Now if you’ll excuse me, I’m off to watch the Warriors demolish the Orlando Magic while waiting to see if one of my tweets show up in the pregame show.Gizmodo - Lifehacker - Now StoryBundle. Rated most appealing midsize lover by J.D. Power and Associates. Wearing #28. The Yellow Chris Webber.A place for winners and losers, absolutes and ambiguity, opinions and fact, letters and numbers.

Sports are not like mobile apps — it takes years for people to acquire interest and habitually consume them. It’s a major barrier to entry that gives sports like football, basketball, and baseball, enormous stability. On the contrary, it makes the creation of the UFC one of the most fascinating case studies in the history of sports. In 1991, the UFC The focus on selling violence came at a major cost. However, future UFC President Dana White saw something completely different; he saw a superior product to boxing that just hadn’t been operated and marketed correctly. As a result, he partnered with childhood friends Frank and Lorenzo Fertitta to buy the UFC for a measly $2 million.An average UFC event While the sport exploded in less than decade, UFC executives ultimately knew its hyper-growth would eventually curtail. It’s not like Americans were just going to forget about football and basketball to watch UFC fights all day. During the past two years, the numbers are confirming these fears. TV ratings for UFC programming are However, that isn’t the entire story. Since 2010, the UFC shifted its strategic focus to an ambitious international expansion plan. While other organizations like the NBA and MLB have tried to “globalize,” no one is truly embracing the concept like the UFC is.White’s vision is to allow every corner of the planet to have the same access to content that folks in the US do. In order to do this, the UFC has invested heavily in social media and digital content as part of a larger strategy to provide unlimited access to its product. Fans can engage with UFC fighters even when they aren’t fighting. As a result, UFC fans feel attached to not only the star fighters but the younger, lesser-known fighters as well.When it comes to social media, the UFC is the industry leader. To illustrate, NFL Commissioner I recently If you weren’t fully convinced about UFC’s commitment to unlimited access, its new Instead of waiting for the sport to grow organically in new markets, the UFC has been aggressive in forming partnerships which allows for instant distribution.In 2010, its parent company Zuffa sIn Latin America, it has By leveraging technology, the UFC is entering markets other sports have not dared to touch. It is already broadcasting in “I believe fighting was the first sport on earth, and it’ll be the last sport on earth. It works everywhere, and we’re going to take it everywhere, “ says White.Just a few decades ago, boxing was one of the most popular sports in the world. Now, it is struggling to keep pace with the UFC. Boxing’s biggest (and arguably only) star is 36 years old and its fan base is generally an older demographic. Passionate about the intersection of sports, business, and technology. Working with Startup Chile, previously a product manager in San Francisco. Tackling the challenging issues in sport that occur off the field 

Wake up. Wait 15 minutes for a postgame recap to pass through SportsCenter’s queue. Go to the bathroom, miss the recap. Surf the web as you commute: general news, viral stuff, then an opinion blog — all on different websites. Tiny font, weird formatting on your phone.This is What a relief to find the antithesis of legacy sports media: curated, mobile news. Customized for your teams, with a newsfeed full of what friends are reading. Relevant stories from thousands of sources, standardized for perfect mobile viewing.This is Somewhere between the Netflix of sports content and the Facebook of fandom, you might say the app “takes things personally.” As it should — sports is our hometown. It’s a throwback jersey and a chat about “back in the day” with your old man. It’s the most universally social component of our culture, uniting a few perfect strangers at a bar and a few thousand of them at the stadium.Yet sports is the Traditional sports media outlets are isolationist. They shun content authored by anyone but their own staff. They shrink from innovation at the cost of user experience, unwilling to optimize for mobile readers.Chat Sports draws content democratically from any and all worthy sources. And the app’s cutting-edge UI — newly redesigned with crisp fonts and brightened colors — delivers the cleanest mobile reading experience ever.In a world where cookies track our clicks and ads target our every move, sports media can and See for yourself: Posted by: Suzi Alvarez, Personalized sports news from thousands of sources in one social feed. Download the five-star rated iPhone app now: 

Cristiano Ronaldo is the best player in the world, but he’s also the most polarizing due to his love for posing shirtless after goals. Unlike Messi who is adored by the media, Ronaldo will take most of the blame if Portugal falters in the World Cup. Here is the issue: Ronaldo once again doesn’t have a supporting cast. His partners in attack are Nani, who had a disappointing year, and Helger Postiga, who generally sucks. A reminder to LeBron haters: Mo Williams was just not very good.A team like Wichita State will dominate their conference because of weak competition. Then the NCAA tournament comes around, and it starts having to play tougher teams like Kentucky. While it can put up a fight, its talent gap is ultimately exposed.While the US had a very successful qualifying campaign, their region is one of the weakest in the world. There is no doubt that the US can play with Portugal and Germany, but the talent gap will be the reason why they probably don’t advance. IBasically everything people say about the Spurs applies to Spain — the most dominant national team of the last decade (maybe even ever, if they win again). Many are counting them out because their star players like Xavi (age 34) and Iniesta (age 30) are past their prime. Spain’s biggest advantage is cohesiveness. Their ENTIRE starting midfield of Busquets, Xavi, Iniesta, and Pedro has played together for club and country for over 5 years. People forget that World Cup squads start training only weeks before the tournament — it’s a huge advantage to have players that are familiar with each other.Another fun fact is that Spanish star striker Diego Costa pulled the ultimate “Johnny Damon” move this past year. For those who don’t remember, Johnny Damon signed with the rival Yankees after helping the Red Sox win a World Series. Costa was born and raised in Brazil, but upset that he was never selected to play with the Brazilian National team. Because Costa was playing in Spain, he was able to get Spanish citizenship and could potentially play for either team if he was good enough. Soon after, he blossomed into one of the best strikers in Europe and had offers to play with both squads: Brazil or Spain. Costa chose Spain and will forever be viewed as a traitor in Brazil. Here is the kicker: What is the Brazilian squad’s only weakness? No one epitomizes choking better than Tony Romo in a big game. Unfortunately for England, Wayne Rooney seems to follow suit during major tournaments. Once anointed as England’s savior, Rooney is still searching for his first World Cup goal (yes, you read that right). No other England striker has ever gone eight games without scoring a goal. At age 28, this is likely Wayne Rooney’s last chance to bring glory back to a nation that has dreadfully underperformed at past World Cups.England’s expectations are low this World Cup, since they feature a largely inexperienced squad outside of a few players like Rooney and Steven Gerrard. Watch for Raheem Sterling (age 19) to be one of the young stars of the World Cup. Sterling will run at defenses and setup scoring opportunities for Rooney.Three of the best forwards in the world play for Argentina (Lionel Messi, Sergio Aguero, and Gonzalo Higuain). While most teams play 1-2 forwards, Argentina plays all 3 at the same time. Behind them is Angel DiMaria, one of the most dangerous attacking midfielders in the world. It’s no wonder Argentina is everyone’s favorite to challenge Brazil for the World Cup. If you like goals and want to see lots of them, Argentina should be your team to watch. They cruised through South America World Cup Qualifying by averaging over 2 goals a game. The only problem is that they are weak at the back and will likely concede many goals as well.Let’s be honest, the NBA Playoffs were better when Lance Stephenson was playing. But Lance cannot even hold a candle to Mario Balotelli, Italy’s star forward and general pain in the ass. Here are some of the highlights of Balotelli’s resume:Combine this with the numerous fights he has gotten into with coaches and players, and even Ron Artest would be impressed with the caliber of crazy that Balotelli is. Just like Stephenson, his on-field performance varies from The French produce great wine, cheese, and woefully inconsistent World Cup performances.Here is the French World Cup record over the past 20 years:While they are deep with talent, losing Frank Ribery due to injury is a crushing blow. However, they have a good draw and lots of young talented players, so anything can happen.Brazil should win the World Cup for two reasons:1) 2) Because they are playing at homePer usual, Brazil features one of the strongest squads and deepest squads in the World Cup. What will push them over the edge is having home field advantage in a country where people are obsessed with the sport (until it costs them billions in tax dollars, then they get pissed and protest). Regardless, home field advantage is a big deal in soccer. A European team has NEVER won a World Cup in the Western hemisphere. Home teams Passionate about the intersection of sports, business, and technology. Working with Startup Chile, previously a product manager in San Francisco. Tackling the challenging issues in sport that occur off the field 

Google correctly called 14 out of 16 of the final matches. One of the calls missed Germany’s 1–0 victory over France in the quarterfinals. Microsoft crunched numbers from past games and player performances to predict the winning team in 15 of 16 final matches (they erred in thinking Brazil would beat the Netherlands in the consolation game for third place).Of course, fans have long closely followed sports statistics, but big data has created a new dimension of detail that can provide unprecedented insights about what may happen in the future. “data…always existed, but now it is supercharged,” says David Rothschild, an economist who developed the predictive model that Microsoft used for the 2014 World Cup. “We have the ability to look at data flows, rather than looking at them in the box score the day after in the newspaper. You are actually updating with extremely low latency in real time.”Once upon a time, someone like Paul Bessire might have gotten a job on Wall Street. Instead he spends his time gambling on sports and sharing his insights on PredictionMachine.com.“In the financial world I am competing against everybody else, thousands of people. At that time Goldman Sachs or Lehman Brothers had all the same kind of models and information that I did and the data that I did, whereas in sports it was very different and remains very different,” he says.A factor that is unique to sports betting is that many will relentlessly wager on their favorite team, rather than use dispassionate analysis. Bessire says that “Basically that is what will keep this an exploitable market.”“I live in Cincinnati. My neighbor does not buy Procter  Gamble stock because we live in Cincinnati. He might buy it for other reasons but he is not going to go out and buy it because he thinks out of loyalty he should. He would bet on the Bengals, just because we are in Cincinnati and the Bengals are playing and he wants to root for his team.”Yet even with the power of big data, veterans such as Bessire often forecast wrongly, as there are a lot of random variables that can change the outcome of a game. He says he correctly calls nearly 55 percent of NFL football games. That means he is wrong 45 percent of the time, but he is correct more than the 52.4 percent of the time needed to come out ahead in Las Vegas sports gambling given the house’s take.Matt Holt, vice president of business development at CG Analytics, says the ever-expanding wealth of sports statistics is a double-edged sword for his firm, which sets the odds in major Las Vegas casinos including the Cosmopolitan and the Venetian, and other bookmakers.Holt and other Vegas insiders I spoke with were less impressed with the Google and Microsoft’s successes. “The favorites were coming in left and right. It was just the better team beating the weaker team on paper,” says Raphael Esparza, a veteran handicapper at Doc’s Sports Service.In fact, he says for all the talk about big data, many Vegas bookmakers have not changed their traditional approach. “Everyone thinks it’s all mathematical and we have a guy that’s in a locked room that does statistics and all that,” Esparza says. “There is really no number crunching, no analytics. It’s just knowing your craft and knowing the sport is probably, I would say, 80 percent of how you make the numbers.”“I was in the industry for 14 years and there’s maybe a handful of days that we got our butt handed to us. And it’s not because of statistics or because somebody found a way, or an octopus told it to bet it. It was just that we lost that day.”David Rothschild of Microsoft Research concedes that rather simple information can very often predict the future in sports. “What is the most surprising thing is how accurately you can forecast sports with two statistics in every sport: the points for and against and home and away,” he says. “It doesn’t matter what sport I am talking about as long as the sport is won or lost on some basis of points.”But Theodore Todorow, a former algorithmic developer at Cantor Gaming (now CG Technology), says the more instinctual odds makers are a dying breed. “Yes, there is this old time mentality but it is a bit like on Wall Street,” he says. “The person with the data has the edge.”For more by Adam Tanner, check out:PublicAffairs is an independent, non-fiction book publisher in New York City.

On Friday, CBS announced it will unveil the first all-female sports talk show, set to debut in September. The Big Lead My initial reaction upon seeing the headline was “great,” but my joy was short-lived after digesting this unfortunate sequence of words: “Sources say it will be something akin to The View meets Pardon the Interruption.”GoodFirst, we don’t need to conduct a focus group to confirm that the vast majority of sports fans — be they male or female, highbrow hipsters or gameday warriors with helmets painted around their nipples — have no interest whatsoever in a sports talk show ever meeting The View. If that’s the entire concept of the show — beyond, you know, gender — it’s an incredibly presumptuous leap by the Tiffany Network’s suits that has all the potential in the world to backfire.Why isn’t CBS recognizing the fine work of women broadcasters by bringing them into their already existing programming organically? Doesn’t it make more sense to promote diversity by putting qualified female journalists in high-visibility roles that the entirety of your viewing audience will actually watch?Writer Instead, what we have here is a gimmick by CBS that purports to fill a void while the network’s principal sports programming will continue to exist as it has for years. David Berson, President of CBS Sports, clearly believes he and his colleagues are on the cutting edge of diversity practice:In reality, the creation of an all-female sports talk show merely allows CBS executives to pat themselves on the back while they soak in a few glowing tweets of praise, supposedly in the name of advancing women’s place at the table but without acknowledging it’s an entirely different table that they’re peddling to viewers.It’s win-win at the top of the chain that comes with little change, in an industry that has long trended toward attention-grab over quality.Remember when ESPN added Rush freakin’ Limbaugh, of all people, to the network’s NFL Countdown panel, presumably because he filled the loud, husky male requirement? That was as preposterous an idea as Meet the Press one day announcing they’ve added Jumbo Elliott to its team of shrewd talking heads. To the surprise of no one, the strange Limbaugh experiment abruptly ended when he I know what you’re thinking. “Wait, it just dawned on me that a major American television network actually once added a pill-popping, racist ideologue to one its highly-rated broadcasts, yet even now, we It’s window dressing at its worst.Look, we can all root for this new show to be successful (it won’t be) because of what the show Instead of evolving like the rest of the sports world continues to do — like the CBS appears to believe they’re doing something revolutionary here, and I’m sure the idea was birthed through good intentions, but the concept of a sports “tea party” cast off to the side only accentuates the existing problem. Yes, a handful will have their own table now, but is it one anyone wants to sit at?Writing about sports when not admiring myself from a superficial distance. Still in heated battle with NBA over the rights to Jack Sikma’s exotic perm.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

Bill Simmons, ESPN’s verbose, narcissistic, funny, insanely creative hood ornament, hung over the classroom like an occupational phantasm. One by one, as we went around the room introducing ourselves on the first day of class, my university students shared their favorite sports journalist.Bill Simmons.Bill Simmons.Bill Simmons.“Why?” I asked.The answers, rooted in perception, varied: because he gets to be on TV; because of how he writes; because he’s freaking loaded; because ESPN lets him do whatever he wants.Like I said. Perception.Last week, ESPN president John Skipper showed that Simmons could Unsurprisingly and understandably, Simmons’ sacking was met with speculative think pieces and Everything about Simmons’ ESPN career made him a pedagogical wrecking ball. His omnipresence. His tone. His freedom. His chutzpah. His reprehensible reporting skills.Bill Simmons.Bill Simmons.Bill Simmons.It never failed. As we went around the room to start each semester, invariably about half would say Simmons was their favorite. Maybe some, uncomfortable being put on the spot, were merely mimicking their classmates. Perhaps Simmons was so visible, so in-your-face Simmons possesses cultural power rarely seen in sports journalism. The power to permeate our lives with a unique personal voice shared from an inescapable pulpit.Sports journalists who have reached this level are few and far between: Grantland Rice, Jimmy Cannon, Hunter Thompson, Dick Schaap, Howard Cosell, Frank Deford. Why them and not others? Because these are the sports media figures who others try to be, whose tones and techniques are aspirational. They’re mimicked because their ambitions stretched far beyond sports media’s status quo.Simmons was inescapable. We’d sometimes make time at the beginning of class to talk about his work — at the students’ request. In 2009 Simmons wrote “Simmons’ “As such, he was as useful in the classroom for his sometimes irresponsible approach as his sometimes prescient insights. ESPN’s “Simmons let us explore the ESPN trotted out Simmons at its “For $6 million you can hire 30 people making 200 grand. It’s a lot of money,” Deadspin editor Tim Marchman said Monday on his publication’s podcast. “And there’s no evidence that he [Simmons] is bringing in financial return anywhere near on par with that.”Maybe, maybe not. Grantlant doesn’t get the clicks that Deadspin and SB Nation generate. Simmons creates other income. In 2013 his BS Report podcast was Employing Simmons also brings non-financial benefits. How can we measure those? Numerous ways. For one, 30 for 30 Beyond altering the class schedule to occasionally discuss Simmons’ stories, we’ve introduced entirely new courses that have loosely followed his career trajectory. I’ve taught Sports and Entertainment Blogging, Entrepreneurial Blogging, and Advanced Digital Media Workshop. The latter trained students to conceive an idea for a website, market and monetize it, learn some new technologies, create content and launch the site.We’ve brought in speakers to discuss the technical and on-air sides of podcasting. We’ve developed units on modern media companies and dynamics between content producers and managers.Simmons built the template on which young sports journalists cast their dreams. That makes some of us shudder, but he got noticed. He became famous. He changed the industry and got paid. Higher education is suffering enormously from budget cuts. Many have adopted Ayn Rand-ian methods of free-market competition to maintain departmental enrollments, including giving students what they want instead of what they need, then adapting those wants into usable teaching tools.We’ll teach students that it’s OK to interject stories with pop-culture references, and then we’ll show them how consumers retaliate on social media and in story comments when those references become outdated. Simmons learned new skills that propelled his content for a decade and a half, but he also suffered the consequences when he ruffled the feathers of advertisers and media partners one too many times. All of these are teachable examples.Ultimately, Simmons allowed college instructors to put a face on the “changing media trends” we’re so fond of heaving at our students. Can he write like Cramer or Thompson? Of course not. Is he on-air smooth like Olbermann and Patrick? Hardly. Will he be coding for Major League Baseball Advanced Media anytime soon? No.But Simmons did take wild advantage of his own ingenuity, ESPN’s global reach, and culture’s emerging technologies to become his generation’s preeminent sports journalist. Not its best, not its most talented, not its wisest … but certainly its most visible (and one of its wealthiest).As an academic, that’s a lot to work with.Mass Communication Ph.D. candidate. Former journalist. Former host: New Books in Journalism podcast. Novelist.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

Over the past seven years I have become one of the best travel agents in the world.I admit, this is only self-proclaimed. I haven’t been formally recognized for my talents (yet). Even worse, I don’t get paid to be a travel agent —and I never have.I have played pro golf since 2007. In trying to climb up the golf ranks, I played on every tour around the world that I could qualify for. I spent the majority of the last seven years in a new location every week. Managing this lifestyle as my own agent made me quite skilled at navigating online travel bookings.That said, existing travel services have generally made these bookings fantastically easy. In terms of booking flights, hotels, and cars, websites like kayak.com have made this experience fairly straightforward. The one particular area of the online travel industry that does seem to have an opportunity for “disruption” is the adventure and activities market. For me, my greatest frustrations in travel come outside of the service offerings of the kayak.com’s of the world. Although sites like Trip Advisor and Lonely Planet offer useful reviews on travel experiences, booking an adventure leaves one with dozens of windows open and no one source to trust. I have wasted far more time attempting to navigate my way through the massive amount of travel activity options than I ever have booking a flight, car, or hotel.Luckily, some startups are providing solutions to this problem. Sites like Get Your Guide, Viator, and relatively new entrant into the marketplace: Peek.com. Peek raised attention on March 5th, 2014 when they raised a $5M second round of funding from a star-studded cast of investors — Eric Schmidt, Jack Dorsey, David Bonderman, SV Angel, and CAA.In an attempt to tap into the reported Although it is While Peek has gotten initial traction with early adopters who were excited to use its curated service, the mainstream market won’t automatically follow these early adopters. Peek could enhance its product and increase its brand awareness by finding the right partners. There are many opportunities for Peek but one that immediately came to (at least my) mind was a partnership with a professional sports organization. While partnerships in pro-sports generally go to the highest bidder, no one is bidding for a partnership in the activities market, Peek’s bread and butter. Such a partnership would bring value offering to organizations like the NHL, NBA, and PGA Tour, none of which have partnerships of this kind.The PGA Tour could be Peek’s best initial foothold in the the sport market. First of all, the customer demographic that travels to watch a PGA Tour event typically has excess disposable income (a perfect fit for some of Peek’s high ticket offerings). The PGA Tour is widely considered This partnership could greatly benefit Peek in many different ways. The “shoot for the stars” outcome for Peek would be to somehow find their way onto the tournament schedule interface (seen below), that already offers golf patrons a link to book tournament tickets, airfare, hotel, and cars for each event.Although this may be an unlikely first step, alternative agreements like a link through the While the partnership’s benefits to the PGA tour may seem limited, there are more than a few reasons it would actually be a great fit. As earlier mentioned, Peek targets a very specific niche market — activities. PGA Tour events themselves are activities that, in the long-term, could be offered on Peek’s website, but the experience the PGA Tour provides to a fan at an event is limited to the golf course. The Peek activity platform would now allow the PGA Tour to offer fans a full travel experience at their events. Golf fans travel from all over the world to attend PGA Tour tournaments—not to mention their subset tours: Champions Tour, Web.com Tour, etc. As you can see in the screenshot above, the Tour partners with travel companies to offer flights, hotels, and car rental services to their patrons. A link to Peek’s local booking service creates a full breadth of offerings, like a virtual concierge service, where local activities pre- or post-golf would complete the fan’s experience.Another opportunity within the partnership for the PGA Tour would be offering tournament ticket packages on Peek’s platform. This would allow the PGA Tour to widen their marketing efforts by showing up on the radar screen of Peek travellers who may not otherwise have considered attending the PGA Tour event. This would be even more beneficial for the PGA Tour’s subset events like the Champions Tour and Web.com, which have a harder time attracting spectators. Although this seems like a conflict of interest for the PGA, due to pre-existing ticketing agreements, Peek could perhaps get around this by not charging their usual percentage from the sale and instead use the opportunity as a price for partnership.An important (but less obvious) benefit for the PGA Tour in a partnership with Peek is in using Peek’s offering as a way to promote all activities and events in the local area in which they are hosting tournaments. Peek, unlike most startups, directs money At the end of the day, this kind of proposed partnership—an early stage activities company and a behemoth of a sports organizations—would be a tough deal to push through to say the least. After all, Peek currently services only 19 cities. But, as they continue to expand into more locations, Peek’s niche value offering is something that could attract the attention of these large sports organizations.I know from my experiences as a player that fans that I talk to at events are always searching for local activities when they leave the course. Hopefully the PGA Tour could see the value in allowing Peek to help them provide a service that they don’t currently offer. This mutually beneficial relationship could be crucial in Peek reaching the mainstream market.

To say Robert Beck, Simon Bruty, Bill Frakes, David E. Klutho, John W. McDonough, and Al Tielemans are good professional photographers would be a major understatement. Their work has graced Sports Illustrated’s pages for countless issues — which makes the magazine’s recent decision to No publication, of course, is immune to layoffs and budget cuts.USA Today laid off Ironically, news of the cuts broke just hours before the premiere of ESPN Films’ “Keepers of the Streak,” an acclaimed documentary that chronicled the longevity of Super Bowl photography coverage over the years. The Neil Leifer film tells the stories of the four photographers — John Biever, Walter Iooss, Mickey Palmer and Tony Tomsic — who have shot each of the 48 Super Bowls that have been played.The Core Four were present when only two linemen from each team and one referee took midfield for the coin toss. They followed the Jets and Colts during Super Bowl III, when media days were much more quaint. They even shot from the benches — a place where credentialed photographers can no longer access in today’s NFL. They captured Super Bowls in sunlight and at dusk, moments that are now extinct, given the present-day Big Game kickoff times and dome atmospheres.Each photographer in the documentary discusses his historic work — allowing viewers to understand how difficult sports photography is today, and what it was like in the past when they used film-based cameras. There are a myriad of factors that go into photography, as it turns out, requiring far more knowledge than just shutter speed, aperture, and ISO.From Iooss’ photo of The six laid-off SI photographers also captured their own timeless images — some of which were featured in Their lenses and vision created so many recognizable photos, but sadly, they no longer bear titles as official SI staff photographers.It is tough to see anyone lose their job, but it becomes more disconcerting considering the “SI Six” make up the absolute upper echelon of their field. Their hard work has fostered incalculable interest in photography, both from people who don’t know how to hold an SLR camera, Sports Illustrated Director of Photography, Brad Smith, told the NPPA the magazine’s “Ultimately, it’s hard to label the news as anything less than discouraging for photographers and their entire industry, but perhaps the juxtaposition between the layoffs and the incredibly flattering picture ESPN’s documentary paints of the profession, will serve to raise awareness.Now, we need creativity and artistry more than ever, especially when it comes the proper depiction of live events — in sports and everywhere else.Multimedia journalist for hire | Former A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

Drugs and alcohol have cost Josh Gordon dearly. That much is undeniable. This week, Gordon wrote at length, Gordon’s piece, which should be read in full, sparked a variety of reactions. Some cast doubt on the veracity of his story, others on the authenticity of his message. And yes, it’s true, there is no way for any reader, commentator, or pundit to verify whether events unfolded exactly as he laid them out. Therein lied his point, though, no?After all, the central premise of his narrative was that no outside observer should presume to know the full circumstances of his life, regardless of what details bubble to the surface as a result of status as a public figure. Momentary lapse on an airplane? Full-blown addiction to alcohol? I have no idea. And neither do you, Charles Barkley, Stephen A. Smith, Cris Carter, or anyone else.Gordon’s rationale, of course, didn’t play well in the wonderful world of sports punditry.Gordon isn’t the only member of the Cleveland Browns making news in the offseason. Quarterback Johnny Manziel was back in the headlines this week, after it was revealed that In a statement, The rest of the world, of course, makes no such promise.Manziel’s relationship with alcohol has been under scrutiny for years — from the moment he first stepped under center at Texas AM. Social media has provided us with Manziel’s drinking is also addressed in the feature, with Thompson noting that his parents and coach Kevin Sumlin mandated alcohol counseling following a 2012 arrest. “I don’t know where the anger comes from,” said his father Paul, “I don’t think he knows. If it comes from his drinking, or if he’s mad at himself for not being a better person when he fails … You can only speculate because you can’t go in there.”No, we can’t literally “go in there,” but that hasn’t kept Manziel’s drinking from being a continuing topic of discussion. In fact, it sparked a sports media kerfuffle of sorts about a month ago, The words were immediately polarizing — because of the person who spoke them, because of the target of his lecture, and because of the understandably sensitive nature of the topic at hand. Any impartial observer would likely surmise that Johnny Football’s hard living is affecting his life and career, but there was probably a more sensitive way of discussing the topic — one that avoided specific labels and judgements without all of the facts.Then again, perhaps the fault lies not with Bayless, or any given commentator, but with the circumstances themselves. The majority of people in this country are afforded the opportunity to confront their demons in private, away from prying eyes, gossip, and speculation about whether they’ll be ready for offseason minicamp. No such luxury exists for Manziel. (Or Gordon.)Manziel is “Johnny Football,” quite literally because every action, every decision, every step, and every stumble is analyzed under the framework of what it means for his career on the gridiron. His travel, his parties, and yes, his drinking, are all matters of national concern, simply because of his ability to throw a football down the field. That’s no one’s fault, per se, but it sure as hell isn’t conducive to any sort of recovery.While Gordon is judged as either a pariah, or a pity case, depending on the time of day — and while the world wonders what a stay in rehab might do for Manziel’s 3rd down accuracy — another football player is being perceived altogether differently.Rob Gronkowski is a Super Bowl champion for the very first time, and, if we can take anything from the headlines he’s generated, America is quite happy to ride the Gronk party bus for the foreseeable future.When we talk about Gronkowski, there is no scolding, no judgement, no shame. Despite the fact that the alcohol undoubtedly flows freely on the “Gronk Goes Wild” tour, there appears to be no moral outrage brewing. Gordon is a lost cause, Manziel is out of control, but Gronkowski is America’s id, a delightful frat boy sent here to charm us all with his singing, dancing, and dramatic readings of the erotica he inspires.Admittedly, there are reasons for this.Unlike Gordon, Gronkowski has never been arrested for driving while impaired. Unlike Manziel, he has never been charged for disorderly conduct stemming from his role in a bar fight, not to mention the fact that he’s actually, you know, legitimately good at football. Also, it’s nigh-impossible to argue that Gronk’s exploits are in any way affecting him on the field, Gronk’s antics while under the influence have, to this point, been strictly of the “entertaining lunkhead” variety — and let’s hope they stay that way. But it’s worth noting, and appreciating, that the line between “harmless diversion” and “dangerous compulsion” can get very blurry, very quickly. That is not meant to in any way admonish America’s favorite club hopper, We bathe our broadcasts in beer commercials, then wonder where our children got the idea to start drinking. We make imbibing a social necessity, while lamenting the scourge of drunk driving. We make alcohol consumption look glamorous, then wonder why anyone would look to a bottle to ease their pain.The reality is, you can’t have the fun, carefree, Wildman Gronk, without also coming to terms with the fact that others may struggle to handle their business. Beyond that, it isn’t remotely just to celebrate the mighty Gronk’s antics, while offering Gordon and Manziel a disappointed shake of the head, or an angry wag of the finger. Substance abuse, as with life, just isn’t that simple.Last year, addiction specialist, and retired professor of Psychiatry Lance Dodes, and his son Zachary, authored Dodes’ argument is not simply that there are flaws in the program’s methodology, but also that the system has been popularized and glorified to such an extent, that it has crowded out all other ideas and options.According to Dodes:The science of addiction is best left to the experts in the field — and the debate seems likely to continue into the foreseeable future — but Dodes’ call for an open mind and his suggestion that a “one-size-fits-all” approach to addiction treatment may be problematic, is worth hearing. Perhaps, given the chemical, emotional, and behavioral issues that can lead to substance abuse — and the undeniable fact that every individual’s struggle is different — it is worth acknowledging that we may not have all the answers.We don’t That won’t stop us — and our pundits — from pretending we know, though. Once a star athlete is steps into the spotlight, we think we know them. We think we understand them, and, if need be, that we can treat whatever ails them. It’s not malicious, it’s just human nature — our inherent need to classify, to label, to follow a series of steps until we’ve solved the problem.Sorry to break it to you, Folks, but life doesn’t follow a checklist. Gordon, however you feel about him, had it right all along. We’ll never fully, comprehensively, or definitively understand his “problem,” because we’ll never, ever stand in his shoes.And acknowledging him might be Writer/Producer for Fox Sports, The Cauldron, Vice Sports, Fansided. Love my family, my friends, my Mets, and my Jambands. A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

In January of 2011, approximately a year and a half prior to the ACL tear in his left knee, Chicago Bulls point guard Derrick Rose missed practices and was eventually hospitalized. The culprit? Stomach ulcers—presumably from From SB Nation to Deadspin, ESPN to Fox Sports Net, The Herd to the Dan Patrick Show, and Twitter to the dreaded “Comments” section, the collective world of sports journalism is hyper-saturated with content producers. And given the inherent 24-hour news cycle that comes from television, radio, and the Internet, if one wants to have a chance at succeeding in sports journalism, one Enter the creation and entrenched implementation of sports narratives. You know how Lord Byron opined in Similarly, care to wager a guess on how many NBA writers have blindly anointed New Orleans Pelicans power forward Anthony Davis “Basketball’s Next Superstar,” Much like how most stereotypes stem from at least some semblance of truth, many sports narratives are just Derrick Rose — who has missed the better part of two seasons with the aforementioned torn ACL and then a meniscus tear in his right knee — now seems permanently ensnared in the “sports narrative zone.” According to a plethora of on-air analysts, writers, and readers  listeners alike, Rose has been metaphorically branded as “soft,” “injury prone,” “weak,” “made of glass,” as well as other, far more pejorative things.Admittedly, when a player misses two consecutive seasons with different injuries, it is both easy and convenient to embrace the injury narrative. But as anyone who has ever stayed in a relationship out of sheer convenience could hastily tell you, what is easy and convenient is not always what is right.During last Friday night’s game against the Cleveland Cavaliers, Rose did what any pickup basketball player who leaps for rebounds and shoots jumpers has done dozens of times: jumped in the air and landed on an opponent’s shoe — in the case of Rose, Kyrie Irving’s sneaker. Despite tweaking Predictably, the talking heads were none too pleased, Rose’s minor injury prompting the masses to quip incessantly about his injury history. On Wednesday night, after missing the Bulls’ previous two games, Rose tweaked his ankles again. Sadly, Rose’s current injuries, as common in basketball as any other (if not more so), will undoubtedly lead to even greater regurgitation of the well-worn sports narrative surrounding him, a problem that is twofold: (1) they are largely absent of critical thought; and (2) sometimes, a tweaked ankle really is Perhaps the greatest indictment against sports narratives is when one narrative blatantly contradicts the other. Remember the earlier narrative that is the seemingly incontestable brilliance and infallibility of San Antonio’s Popovich? Well, his If, however, Derrick Rose misses an inconsequential game or two over nagging ankle injuries—injuries wholly unrelated to When Rose missed practices in 2011 for what very well might have been too much Sriracha consumption, he was presumably experiencing a legitimate medical issue. He had to be anesthetized, and doctors at Chicago’s Rush University Medical Center ended up ramming a camera down his throat.Stomach ulcers are no laughing matter — that is, unless the Derrick Rose sports narrative continues to snowball, and capsaicin becomes the origin story for Rose’s perceived frailty.Thirty-six in a karate class.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

In a Machine Learning’s meetup, we were talking about applying probability to sports. The question was that football has a small amount of goals which makes it hard for prediction. On the other hand, sports like Handball or Basketball have a large amount of goals, letting the errors cancel each other. I’ve already read Nate Silver’s book In a Basketball game, you have 4 times of 12 minutes each (NBA). Given the information on the first time, I want to predict the final result. For instance, suppose team 1 made x1 goals in the first quarter. Then, the probability of making a goal in a given second is: p1 = x1/720, because 720=12*60.In a complete game you have 2880 seconds, therfore, the final score follows a binomial distribution with parameters p = p1 and n = 2880.I will show here two examples using the last Spurs’ games.This games finished with 121 points made by Spurs and 92 made by Wolves. In the first quarter, the result was 29 to 26. Using this data, I’ve computed the distrbution of final resultsAs can be seen, it was very clear that spurs were going to win the game. Actually, the probability of winning the game was 78.3%. The expected result was 116 to 104, but the actual results was in the 95% interval for both teams.This game was more interesting. The final result was 87 to the Nets and 99 to the Spurs while in the first quarter, it was 18 to 25 respectively.The probability for the Nets to win this game was as low as 1.7%The expected result was 100 for the spurs, which is almost the actual result, telling that they behaved the whole match as the first quarter. On the contrary, the expected result for the Nets was 72, much lower than the actual result. Even more, the probability of getting a result at least as big as the actual result is 4.6%. This may imply that something in the final score is different to the first quarter.Actually, the Nets’ full score for quarters was 18 18 28 and 23. Clearly, something changed between the second and third quarter, and I want to know what.For handball, the number of goals per match is lower than for basketball so, I found that using minutes instead of seconds gives good results. In the first third of the match (minute 20 of 60), the score was 10 to 6 to the Home and Away. With this data, we compute the binomial distribution.As you can see, the final result, with the information given in the first third, was quite polarized. The probability of the away team to win was less than 1%. The expected result was: 30 and 18 while the actual result was 30 and 21. The prediction for local was perfect, and the probability for away to have the actual result (or above) was 25%. This means that they did a great job to increase their chances. I was happy with this model and also happy of watching Melisa making goals, moving the bell to the right.Ἐν οἴνῳ ἀλήθεια”. Lo que mata es la entropía

This is a story of many tangents which combined should give a glimpse of the decision making process which lead to the amazing failure down the road. The story is told through an email exchange.Let’s start by introducing a friend of mine who is hoping to kickstart his own This is my response to my friend, read on:“Hey Mikey,Sorry for my late response. I was traveling these past few weeks and didn’t want to give a half-assed answer.So, regarding your e-sports idea. As they said many times, if you have an idea, at least 10.000 people had the same idea and at least 100 are working on making it a reality right now :) Well, I had the same idea end of 2012, beginning of 2013 and back then it made a lot of sense.I’m in love with gaming and e-sports, I’m pretty good at online marketing and know my way around development. So why not, right? All the numbers I put together made sense. Even with minor margins, potential income would be huuuuge. Fucking awesome. I’m gonna do it because everyone else is busy laughing at e-sports, while I believe it’s gonna blow up in 2 years time.The idea was to have everything up and running in time for the Fast forward a month, or two. I needed a prototype. I could have made something myself using a Frankenstein method by bootstrapping a Wordpress/Squarespace website, or something similar, but that would impress no one. It’s a high risk high reward market with half-measures not being tolerated. I’ve made my pick with After a few alterations, I was happy with a presentable product:And another one:In the meantime I’ve talked to a lot of people regarding my idea. (Screw the NDA, it helps no one at this stage). Being a niche of a niche of a niche (gaming-esports-esports betting), it took some convincing and educating on my part, to bring others up to speed, to realise the potential I’ve been seeing for the past few years.While talking to professionals of various backgrounds, I’ve managed to secure €120k of initial investments via verbal agreements (I know, right?). It felt great. I was high as a kite, and ready to rock and roll. Fuckyeah.jpgNext step was an investment meeting with heads of HAMAG BICRO (Croatian investment board), and a few individual investors. The plan was to secure another €100k, and safely venture forward. Set up a small HQ at Isle of Man, having capital for development plus first year marketing and administration costs covered.That’s when the harsh glove or reality slapped me across the face. The situation was similar to Shark Tank. 5 of them sitting at a big table and me presenting my idea and project on a projector screen and whiteboard. As this was my first presentation in front of potential investors, I’ve prepared immensely. Went through all the possible angles, acted out different roles and situations. I’ve prepared materials for all of them. I though I had it covered.Well, as luck would have it, a member of the investor audience was a very high ranking official of the international online betting industry. Thankfully so. But at the time, it seemed like a nightmare. I soon figured out that I’ve covered most of the broad category questions and situations, but as they say, the devil is in the details.To be fair, I’ve searched the internet far and wide. Different knowledge bases, forums, FAQs, wikis, Quora, you name it, in order to get all the details regarding setting up an online betting business the right way (there’s a lot of scammy bullshit out there), but I wasn’t able to get industry info in such detail.It was soon obvious that I didn’t come as prepared as needed. But then, a storm of information started raining my way when the high ranking online betting gentleman started sharing knowledge I’ve missed and everything that was needed to be taken into consideration. One example. My goal starting capital was €200k, where I would be happy to start with €120. His educated opinion was that in order to make a dent in the industry, I would need to secure upwards to €2mil. starting capital. Hell of a difference.This was in December 2014. Since then I’ve received a ton of valuable information, and have talked to heads of some betting companies operating in Luxembourg, but haven’t managed to secure enough capital to start rolling with the project.The moral of the story is, even if you think you know enough about the industry, you don’t know enough about the industry :)Regarding your business plan, a lot of things are not clear to me. Not quite sure I understood what the platform is supposed to look like. A friendly heads up, you might want to check these guys out: Best,Nikola”Why have I decided to share this story? I was hoping to achieve a few goals:Also, for staying with the story for this long, I’m giving you access to the What can you take away from this story?As for me, I’m getting into e-sports one way or the other :)Internet Enthusiast, Digital Nomad, Gamer, xGoogler, Shoutem CMO, Food and Fitness Junkie, in love with Entrepreneurship and Creative People.

Sign up for The Nib’s mailing list New Yorker cartoonist. Maker of Lulu Eightball. Illustratrix. Baker of pies. Owner of cat. Wife of man. Mother of child. Political cartoons, comics journalism, humor and non-fiction. Words plus pictures.

SAN FRANCISCO, August 22, 2014 /PRNewswire/ — Extreme sports athlete Sami Inkinen, a cofounder of the real estate infomediary Trulia Inc. (NYSE: TRLA) today announced that he will attempt to be the first person to ever unicycle across the Antarctic tundra in his attempt to reach the South Pole. If Inkinen is able to complete the challenge, he will set a new Guinness World Record.The perilous pan-Antarctic journey would entail a 623-mile unicycle ride over the course of 23 or 24 days, which Inkinen will attempt in December of 2014. “I’m extremely excited for this next challenge,” said Inkinen, “It will require tremendous physical and mental preparation, and we must learn a lot about high-performance unicycling in a very short period of time.”The Antarctic unicycle announcement comes on the heels of another record-setting adventure by Inkinen: rowing the 2,400 miles from San Francisco to Hawaii this June and July, which Inkinen completed with his wife, Meredith, on behalf of their team: As with the trans-Pacific row, Inkinen will use the polar ride to raise awareness about the dangers of sugar and sugary foods. “I have been a competitive athlete most of my life and despite 10+ hours a week of endurance training, have struggled with weight and blood sugar when I was eating the typical ‘healthy’ low fat and consequently high carbohydrate and highly processed, grain and sugar infused diet. In fact, despite being a top amateur triathlete I was pre-diabetic just a few years ago,” Inkinen says, “Finally we have solid scientific evidence that sugar and processed carbohydrates actually change the biochemistry in our bodies, so that we crave more, eat more, gain fat and develop insulin resistance and diabetes BECAUSE of our over-exposure to sugar.”In a significant shift in his diet, some examples of what Inkinen no longer eats includes: energy bars, KitKat chocolates, taffy, caramelized pop corn, Hot Pockets, or Slim Jims, a company that formerly sponsored him, and for which Inkinen appeared in commercials with “Macho Man” Randy Savage.“I am grateful for the relationship with Slim Jim, and miss working with the company and team at ConAgra, especially the public appearances with Randy,” Inkinen said, “But the sugar and processed foods crisis in America is real, and we must all develop greater awareness about the negative consequences, especially for our children.”Inkinen, who has never ridden unicycle before, has already begun mental preparations for the December ride, including by spending three full days sitting on a perfectly balanced board inside a walk-in refrigerator. He plans to start unicycling next month on custom-made cycles from Semicycle XL — a division of Schwinn specializing in unicycles — built especially for the icy conditions Inkinen will face on the tundra, including platinum studs, and doublewide MTB tires. Under Armour will sponsor the ride.Inkinen, who was inspired for his Pacific journey by the book “I know that it sounds crazy,” Inkinen said, referring to both the pan-Antarctic challenge, and the fact that he does not yet know how to unicycle, “But as the rapper Drake says, ‘You only live once,’ so unicycling to the South Pole seems like the next logical step on my journey towards becoming Superman, my life-long dream, hash-tag ‘yolo.’”Inkinen, who was the cofounder of the real estate information services firm Trulia with one of his Stanford Business School classmates, Pete Flint, “Sami is a special breed,” Flint said with a chuckle, “During the early days of Trulia, he wanted to convert one of the company’s conference rooms into a wind-tunnel to practice skydiving. We obviously couldn’t do that, but his drive and attention to detail became cornerstone values for Trulia. I wish him all the best on this next incredible challenge.Inkinen, who is 38 years old, will be keeping fans appraised of his training progress, as well as the journey itself in a new website, launched today: -30-SOURCE: The BLKSHP Enterprises, Inc.News Provided by Uautaknow MediaFounder  CEO, parliament, inc.; accidental author (LITTLE BETS  TRUE NORTH); and, founder, The BLK SHP (black sheep)

Why I stopped observing and started speaking out.I love sports and I love journalism. I wish I could only talk about those two things, but I don’t have that luxury.Recently, former Minnesota athletic director Norwood Teague resigned. After his resignation, his serial sexual harassment was revealed. And the Star Tribune’s I’m fortunate enough to haven’t been in a situation like that — but I’ve been in a couple that came close.This is my seventh year beat reporting, and I’ve seen a lot of sexism.At first I didn’t say anything. It’s easy to ignore it when you’re not a victim, when you’re not involved.While I covered BU hockey I was relatively unscathed by any of this, and I never had an issue while I was with WTBU Sports, or when I was at Agganis. So I watched from afar, heard others’ stories but never got involved in the conversation.But I still lived it.I had people — mostly other reporters — touch me and comment on my appearance. I had a drunk fan continuously hit on me while I was photographing the Big Ten tournament this year. I was called “honey” when I interned for a newspaper in Australia. And there are so many people who’ve told me I don’t know what I’m talking about because I’m a woman.And then you have to deal with people who are sexist, but you can’t correct them for fear of burning a bridge you need to do your job.That’s just a small piece.I’ve seen fellow women reporters, my colleagues, told not to dress a certain way. People have judged how I and others look and have made assumptions about our interactions that they’d never make with male reporters.But I still never said anything.For the first three years of covering college hockey, I stayed quiet. If someone touched me, I just pretended like it didn’t happen. If a coach, on an interview call, referred to me as “honey,” I said nothing.I kept my head down, I kept working and I just ignored it.And people tell you that. They say keep your head down, just keep working through it. Well, I want to. I don’t want to spend hours writing about it. I would much rather mess around crafting new Princeton hockey interactives, writing features and taking photographs.Honestly, it’s hard to go from a bystander to one who speaks out. I’ve thought a lot about how what I say sadly might hurt my chances of getting a job. I do care what people think of me, especially while I search for a job.After the situation with Teague, I told my mom all of the things people were saying on Twitter. I told her what they said to me after I called out something that was sexist. She told me I shouldn’t say anything, because it probably hurts my chances of getting a job.She’s right, I told her. And Angela Rayno stayed quiet because she was afraid of losing her job, while Teague, initially after he resigned, still could’ve been hired by Minnesota as a consultant.Isn’t that the sad part? People who are sexist can be hired, but those who speak out against sexist comments and actions can be fired.But I also told my mom of what happened last October, when I was walking back after a Devils game to the train station in Newark. This reporter tried to hug and kiss me, and I just dodged it.You always assume you’ll fight it when it happens to you. At least that’s what I thought. But when it happened, I just shrugged it off like it wasn’t a big deal. I called my best friend from the train home, shaken, but tried to act like it was no big deal. I texted my sister-in-law and told her it was weird, but that was all it was. That’s what I told myself, and I stayed quiet.Later it was revealed that this person was was serially sexual harassing women.What if me saying something had kept someone else from an uncomfortable sexual harassment encounter?I don’t have many regrets in life, but that’s one of them.Even after that I stayed quiet. I didn’t need to cover the Devils, and their schedule conflicted with college hockey. I was afraid of being in the same situation again, so I just stopped going back. I spent a lot of money to cover the games and didn’t earn anything, so it was an easy decision.Even after that I didn’t say anything when the drunk Michigan fan at the Joe was harassing me. I didn’t know what to say to him, and I was tired of dealing with it. I didn’t need to take photographs, so I just went back to the press box.I understand why women sports journalists don’t go forward when something happens. These things didn’t even happen on my beat, and I still never said anything. It’s so hard to come forward when you’ve been a victim of sexual harassment, to relive how uncomfortable or violating those situations where. I have so much respect for the women who’ve had the courage to say something.And I do cover a team. I’m fortunate there’s never been an issue either with BU, Princeton or my fellow reporters while I covered these two teams. But I know what it’s like to work really hard to form relationships and worry about losing them. Because in this business, that and your reputation is all you have.I understand the instinct to do what’s best for your beat when something uncomfortable happens.I still consider myself lucky because college hockey shields me from much of the sexism. I know what I deal with isn’t nearly as bad as what other women sports journalists deal with.But even if it’s not happening to me right now, how can I stay silent? I know what it’s like to be in that position where someone makes a comment or touches you inappropriately. Even if it’s one little thing, I would say it if it can keep someone else from dealing with harassment.When you’ve never dealt with sexism, if you’ll never be or have never been in that position, it’s so easy to dismiss it. And so many people do dismiss it. It’s so frustrating to see and frustrating to deal with.I can understand people not knowing why something they say is sexist. But I cannot tolerate when people who cannot experience something — be it racism or sexism — refuse to learn.I’m a non-white female. I didn’t choose whether or not I want to be included in sexist or racist remarks or the discussion around them — that was chosen for me, by those who choose to act sexist and racist.Princeton, ECAC, Big Ten hockey, CHN reporter. Dedicated to NCAA  NJ hockey. Former #BUHockey reporter  broadcaster. BU COM ’13 

Chirpify is quickly becoming a burgeoning new medium for big brands to literally cash-in on the social media waves. Users can simply reply with “yes” on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram, and instantly purchase a piece of art or even a sports ticket to, say, the Portland Trailblazers game.Below is a short interview with Chirpify CEO, Chris Teso.The impetus for Chirpify came from spending many years in the advertising industry. Working with big brands, I saw again and again that their advertising was limited to creating ‘awareness’ or ‘engagement’... which they hoped would eventually lead to a conversion or transaction - but there was no way to connect the dots directly. I built Chirpify to give that advertising a way convert instantly, in the moment, wherever it lives.The sports world revolves around the fans. And those fans are increasingly using social channels to connect with the team and with each other - before, during  after the game.The Miami Heat, for example, have more than 10 million fans and followers between Facebook  Twitter, and MediaBistro reported that “more than 26.7 million tweets were sent throughout the Finals, with game seven alone generating 7.4 million tweets, peaking at a heady 150,000 tweets per minute.” That’s a lot of potentially valuable time and attention.However, sports teams need some new strategies and tools in order to unlock the potential of that social conversation. Take the Miami Heat again... they have a separate account (@MiamiHEATstore) that tries to promote the NBA Championship merchandise to fans. Posting after the the finals, they got only 8 retweets and 1 comment... from The better way for teams to leverage their fans’ attention - which Chirpify enables - is to activate the #hashtags at the center of their social conversations, and let fans respond directly to participate, opt-in or purchase. For example, the Heat could have let fans buy that Championship Shirt instantly, by simply responding to their Tweet with “Buy”.By giving sports teams the ability to both reward and monetize their fans directly via social channels, Chirpify opens up a lot of new opportunities.The Portland Trailblazers, Timbers and Thorns all started leveraging Chirpify earlier this year.The Portland Timbers and Thorns have been offering their fans exclusive experiences via social channels - such as VIP passes to pre-game warm-ups and post-game autographs - using Chirpify as a direct social response platform. It’s mainly a way for them to thank and reward their fans, but also to establish Facebook and Twitter as a two-way channels for more than just cheering on the team.The Trailblazers gave away several sets of tickets during the season - using social as a much more immediate way to offer free tickets to lucky fans (vs. a typical radio contest). And, of course, those social giveaways are amplified as entrants post to their followers on Twitter, Facebook  Instagram.We’re seeing very high participation and conversion around the rewards and events campaigns, with up to 4-5% of these teams’ entire social audience engaging with a post.That’s significantly higher than the ‘average’ engagement rate of 1-3% that Regarding ticket sales, we’re currently seeing teams focus more on programs that activate, reward and engage their fans... vs. trying to drive direct ticket purchases through social. Higher ticket sales will come from having more fans that are more engaged with the team... which is what these social campaigns are driving.Absolutely. And we are in talks with several!What we’re hearing from them - and this is very exciting - is an interest in focusing more and more on participation during the games.From an advertising perspective, this is interesting not just for the fans in the stadium, but also for those watching on TV while on their mobile device (second screen).We view platforms like StubHub as great potential partners for Chirpify. Chirpify can instantly extend their offering in-stream on social through our API. In fact, Chirpify has been approached by numerous traditional web-based ticket services about partnerships.Freelance Writer 

Name a sports franchise more loved by its fans than the Warriors. I’ll wait. #ucantdoitTonight, the Golden State Warriors face off against the Cleveland Cavaliers in Game 1 of the NBA Finals. I’m not worried about LeBron James being the first non-Celtics player to make it five straight times to the NBA Finals. You see, we have 2014–2015 NBA MVP Stephen Curry. Scratch that, we’re a team, that’s why our motto is “Strength in Numbers.” I can’t name all the other players, but I do know we have Klay Thompson. #SplashBrothersAlthough I recently moved to San Francisco for the tech industry, I’ve never seen this type of energy surrounding a team before. Everywhere you go, you see royal blue and golden yellow. We are proud of Not so much with the Dubs. We love the Dubs even though they haven’t won a championship since 1975. We travel all the way to Oakland (18 miles driving or BART or an expensive Uber away) to root for our team. I’d like to see anyone travel that far to Notice how I italicized support. San Franciscans have supported the Warriors when they were a losing team. Can you imagine what will happen once the Dubs And I can’t wait to see it. Oracle Arena sits in the middle of nowhere. Where am I supposed to eat before or after the game? I’m vegetarian, so I’m left with eating French fries and Dippin’ Dots. All that’s going to change once the Dubs build their new billion-dollar stadium in Mission Bay. I’m so excited about seeing all the new bars and restaurants that will surround the development. My rent will drastically increase, again, but it’s certainly worth the convenience of not having to jump on BART and deal with sketchy types. #justsayinAnd before you accuse me of being a racist, remember that the vast majority of the Dubs’ players are Black. That’s the thing about San Francisco, it’s a meritocracy. Only the best make the cut. Curry is literally the best player in the NBA. And Thompson (not sure what his race is, but that’s neither here nor there) is a beast. They deserve to play NBA-level basketball. I realize the tech industry here is only 2% Black, but that just means non-Black people are better at innovative thinking. It’s no different than how Black people are better at basketball. It’s called playing to your strengths. #factsonlyWhether it’s basketball or life, everyone gets a fair shot. Who cares if Curry and Thompson’s fathers both played in the NBA? They went to Davidson and Washington State, respectively. They didn’t let the fact that they didn’t go to UNC like Michael Jordan stop them from achieving greatness. Now they are the stars on a team with Harrison Barnes and James Michael McAdoo. Ironic, indeed. #startedfromthebottomCollege affiliations fade away (no pun intended) when we are talking about a team and not one player who carries the rest. There is no “i” in team, only “we” and “want” and “gold” and “now” in Golden State Warriors. #goldrushAlthough this is his first year as a head coach, Steve Kerr has 5 NBA Championships as a player. He knows how to get to the NBA Finals I’m already planning out what I’m going to wear to the victory parade. I may even stop by the Warriors fan store that recently opened at Westfield Mall instead of purchasing a likely unlicensed one from a street vendor in the Mission District. That’s right, the Warriors are so awesome, they have their own store. And I know the 49ers have a permanent store at the mall, but it’s more of a beta release. The Warriors, on the other hand, are the real deal and can even afford to open up a Speaking of the victory parade, there’s been a lot of speculation about whether the parade will take place in Oakland or San Francisco. Having a parade in Oakland seem a bit silly to me. Who cares if the Warriors have played in Oakland for like forty years? They were the San Francisco Warriors, first. It’s no different than how Native Americans seek back the land that was taken from them. Indeed, the original San Francisco Warriors logo was a That’s why I proudly wear my “The City” logo shirt that was used by the San Francisco Warriors from *It should go without saying, but this article is 100% satirical. My objective was to make absolutely ridiculous arguments seem rational (i.e. Blacks are better at basketball than innovation or the Warriors parade should be in San Francisco because they were here first). This is an article about entitlement in San Francisco. Many people in SF think they can claim the Warriors even though they just moved here or see nothing wrong with stealing away the Warriors from Oakland now that they are good or think they have achieved success on their own. #wakeupStartup/Technology Attorney (located in San Francisco)

With a few notable exceptions, themed bars have had an indifferent history in Colombo — you don’t sell the theme, you sell the place. Although not the first, the Cricket Club took this concept a step further. Theme a pub and a restaurant around the single most popular sport in the country; and oh, show a little footy, some NRL and rugby union on the screens in the bar while you’re at it. The result is a pretty reliably packed pub on match days, and a reputation as a place to go to watch some sports. But actual sports bars? A few places in Colombo bill themselves as such, but it’s difficult to see how they’re much different from any other pub that screens a few matches on a projection screen.So what makes an actual sports bar? Sporting action on display 24/7? Multiple screens of the stuff? Mandatory pushups at the door? A pop quiz on the offside rule in football or on the intricacies of the cover-2 defence in that other sport, also called football? A minimum number of team jersey wearing patrons? It all seems a bit nebulous, like someone offered to carry you places on their back while riding a tricycle, and decided to call themselves a three wheeler.But why have I launched into this rambling exposition? Because the (not quite launched) Playtrix sports bar bills itself explicitly as such, and promises (and mostly delivers on) an experience quite novel to the citizenry of Colombo.What they have, 16 large LCDs piping your choice of sporting event in high definition quality. So what, you snort derisively. Both Cheers Pub and Echelon offer a projection screen or two, and several (4, in the case of Cheers) smaller TVs dot the bar area. Maybe not screening in HD quality, but they do exist. But screening in HD does add to the enjoyment of the viewing experience.Playtrix also takes this sporting wheeze to the next level by offering each table their very own personal sound box. Want to listen to FIFA WC highlights commentary while others watch Wimbledon? Press the appropriate channel button on the box, and you’re sorted.The sound boxes themselves seem to run off a limited range FM transmitter, which brings about an unexpected and not entirely pleasant side effect. Sit just at the edge of transmission range; and other public radio broadcasts bleed into your audio signal. I amusingly spent my time sharing Wimbledon commentary with occasional bursts of a monk chanting Other that that little snafu (completely outside the control of both staff and equipment), the sport spectating experience offered by Playtrix is top drawer. I happily split my attention between Wimbledon and the FIFA WC highlights on screens conveniently placed next to each other. The seating was plush (if a little on the low side for me), and honestly — I’d be hard pressed to compare viewing experience unfavourably with any other sports bar I’ve visited.With sports viewing out of the way, my other favourite pastime involves a tipple and this is where some perspective starts to kick in. The sports viewing experience isn’t bargain basement; and the beverages on offer aren’t either. Not to put too fine a point to it, but the drinks list is extensive, expensive and tends a little towards extravagance. A bottle of Carlsberg (half size 300ml, although I could be wrong about this) retails for 300 rupees while Lion, Heineken, Corona and Tiger beers also make the list. A 25ml shot of local vodka costs LKR 200, while again — plenty of better quality (and considerably more expensive) vodka makes the list. On the nights I visited, mojitos and martinis seemed extremely popular with the crowd, along with extravagant balloon glassfuls of Henessey XO.In two words, not cheap. Just to say that several hours of casual drinking has the ability to leave a severe dent in your wallet region.As for the food, it’s still early days so the menu was painfully limited to about 10-12 finger food dishes. I was told that Friday night was indeed their first day of kitchen operation (food had been sent in from the CRFC kitchens previously); which is fair enough. I had the cheese fritters which therefore surpassed my entirely modest expectation. At 600 bucks a pop, the quantity on offer represented quite good value.Service, I do have to say, started great and then went to shit as the night progressed; and the place filled up. Being fair, the staff and management are well aware (and said as much, very apologetically). This will almost certainly be fixed, and may not even be apparent on less busy nights (of which the days of World Cup screening are definitely not — all tables were reserved on match days). Having said this, though — I certainly had no problem getting refills, bellied up as I was to the bar. I could hear quite audible service mishap carnage swirling around me for most of the night though. The bar was short handed, even with some people wearing Amuseum (one of the three partners of this venture owns the nightclub) tshirts filling in.Playtrix isn’t priced to appeal to everyone, and this is most apparent with their concept of an entry fee on match days. At 500 bucks, the entry fee just gets you in the door, it isn’t a cover charge to be redeemed later. Regular hours, I am informed, which is to say before 1800 on match days, are currently free. Incidentally, their social media listings insist the place is open 24hrs, and the management seem quite intent on honouring this (provided a crowd is there to view the event, see member benefit 5). An interesting example of these hours is the NBA matches, which screen early morning SL time; and I was told would be considered once the season begins.The actual demographic of interest is the members — membership to Playtrix is priced at LKR 25k per annum and comes with free entrance and a 10% discount off the total bill (and a few other useful, if personally less exciting perks).Personally, I’d find membership quite worthwhile and I suspect most fans of a regular season of some kind of sport — be it EPL or rugby or even F1 will feel exactly the same way. Everyone will have their own idea of usage that represents value; if anyone watches sport no more than 2-3 times a month, I’d say a membership easily constitutes good value for money.Reviews, observations and anecdotes about Colombo, Sri Lanka [photo credit: 

As a Washington Nationals fan living in Chicago, the MLB Extra Innings package is more or less the only way to see my team play. Sure, there’s a random Saturday FOX game tossed in here and there, and they do actually come through town once in a blue moon, but effectively, if I want to watch — if I want to be a In related news, this is the first time in three years I haven’t bought the TV package. In fact, so far this year, I have seen zero Nats games. Wearing my Nats hat around, most people ask “Walgreens?” and I can shrug it off. Baseball fans, though, say “Nats fan?” and then ask me how Stephen Strasburg is pitching, and I actually have no idea. Most of the time I say something noncommittal, based on my experience of watching Strasburg’s career, like “he gives us six dominant innings in every seven-inning start,” but I’m not sure if that’s entirely accurate this season.There’s a decent chance, though, that the other person knows all about Strasburg, or, at a minimum, has an opinion on his relative value when pegged against his contract, or whether advanced metrics are favorable to him, or some other thing they “read just the other day.”If you’re reading this, there’s a strong chance that your Facebook wall or Twitter feed suggested that you come here, and you decided to click after a perfunctory calculation of your available time for the next however long. You’re not risking much. Most likely, the time you are spending is time with which you’re not going to be productive anyway. Maybe you’re at a stopping point in your work, refreshing your synapses. Maybe you’re on public transportation. Maybe you’re on the toilet.You clicked because you like sports, but you are bored enough with them that spending a little time thinking about why less sports might be a good idea seems reasonable. Maybe this piece will be funny, or at least easy to read. And ideally, there will be something in here that you object to, something that compels you to repost or retweet. An add-on like “check out THIS garbage” or “no way, Joakim Noah is a BEAST” works perfectly — something that adds your opinion but is innocuous enough that you don’t hesitate before hitting the share button and moving on with your life.This is more or less how we create and consume sports in the age of the social media-driven Internet. My job, as a content creator, is to produce something peripheral about sports and get as many people as possible to, in essence, go “ha ha, LOL!” Your job, as a person who likes sports, is to decide whether my content is worth your time. It’s like we’re playing a quasi-sport of our own; a sport of communication that happens to possess many sportslike qualities. Essentially, I am on offense and you’re the defense.The boundary between “you” and “me” in this nonsport sport of sportslike sportthings is thin. When I finish this piece, I will return back to the Internet to decide which thinkpiece about Daryl Morey or which analysis of Carmelo Anthony to read. When you get done reading this, you will return to whatever application you came from and hopefully post something thematically — but not nominally — about your experience reading this.Don’t get me wrong, the experience of watching sports can be There are also other conversations, like ones about what it’s all supposed to mean, and about how to rate any given player, or about how the salary cap structure will impact player movement, or about how the rules of the most recent collective bargaining agreement have had an impact on competitive parity in the league. There are limitless conversations to be had with limitless people about any damn sports subject possible. That’s just part of how we do things now.So why “the case for less sports?” Economic reasons, for starters. Massive social media and internet revenue infrastructures have developed around analyzing and criticizing sports content. Leagues, essentially, are nothing more than for-profit corporations that have taken advantage of an environment in which revenues and valuations have skyrocketed in conjunction with the perfect marriage of sports, communications and technology. Heck, the entire tone of sports coverage has inexorably morphed from a “heckuva game” beat writers report to data-driven statistical and transactional analysis that could just as easily be at home in the business section. The added layer of sports spin, rumors, investigation and LOLing, by nature, underwrites the often predatory corporate institutions providing the sports content that makes all of this possible.But the case for less sports is not — and probably should not be — an ideological stance against what sports are and what they represent. Rather, it’s Sports are not — and probably should not be — about netting a championship trophy as the return on investment for optimally-leveraged resources. Nor should sports be about knowing more than your neighbor does about the footwork drills being run with aplomb by your team’s third-string quarterback, and hoarding that information in order to one day crush him in a dynasty fantasy league.That’s not sports. That’s business. That’s WORK. Let’s stop working so hard, everybody. They’re just sports.Have you ever gotten into a conversation about sports with someone — like a real-life, in-person conversation — and you soon realize you’re both swapping facts from the same article? One of you finally admits, “Yeah, I read that,” and the conversation quickly veers somewhere else. Have you ever then had the urge to check then your phone to find additional information to buttress your sports know-it-all-ness? All while an actual person is standing right in front of you?That is the case for less sports, in a nutshell.The good news, and the paradoxical aspect of all this runaway sports everything, is that I no longer ever have to watch a Nats game. I can just follow Kilgore’s just being Kilgore, though. And I know I can rely on him to let me know whether or not Soriano’s in for the save while I wait for my girlfriend to be done in the movie theater bathroom. And because he and his ilk are all about sports sports SPORTS — and I love him for this — I actually I don’t have to know anything about Strasburg, but if I ever want to, it’ll all still be there, down to the pitch counts and pitch locations and pitch types and pitch movement and heatmaps against righties and lefties. Kilgore will tell me. Fangraphs will tell me. Sports on Earth and SB Nation and ESPN and Grantland and Deadspin will tell me. Anybody who thinks I might want to hear it will tell me, because they are and want to be hopelessly entrenched in the business of telling me. Because there are millions of potentially Strasburg-curious sports fans out there with smartphones waiting for a table at Red Lobster, and their eyeballs secrete ad revenue.So today, the day on which America has absolutely no sports to watch, you should join me in consciously avoiding sports. It’s nice. Sure, I’ll check out a game here or there, maybe tomorrow, maybe not. I may read some commentary if I like a certain writer. More often, though, I won’t. I won’t DVR a game and then go “la la la don’t tell me I’m recording it” at social gatherings. I will let outcomes be “spoiled.” If I hear that I should really watch a certain thing, maybe I’ll watch it. Maybe with a friend I haven’t seen in a while. I will not book sports as an appointment in advance unless there’s a very high chance that something incredible might happen.I know, I know; I’m “not a real fan” because of this — which is, of course, ridiculous. There are entire branches of discussion related to “bandwagons” and “bandwagon jumping” and when is appropriate to jump on or off. The idea that anyone can paint others with a one-size-fits-all fandom brush— that person watches every game, and that person goes to the grand opening of a supermarket because The time has come to obliterate the myth of the “true fan,” and forget about cap space and amnesty provisions. You can be a fan to the exact degree you want to be. You can know as much or as little as you want to know. There is no right or wrong as to where you fall on the fan spectrum. Just don’t get trapped by the mechanism, don’t purchase $60 team-logo emblazoned cufflinks as a desperate measure to prove your loyalty.Of course, there’s a chance that I basically just called you an idiot by suggesting that your love of and obsession over sports is idiotic, which, hypocritically, flies in the face my call to humanize sports and sports commentary. You might have noticed this inconsistency and disagreed with me. You might feel a need to let me know that you are smarter than I am, that you’ve noticed that my argument has holes in it. In which case, I value your input, and I urge you to retweet and share this article to convince everyone that I have no idea what I am talking about. That would really fix my wagon.Or, how about if we just go play shoot some hoops or toss BP to one another, instead? Let’s just not get into a debate about how much Chandler Parsons should be paid, OK?A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

I get it. I know how you feel because I’m a college sports fan too. It’s weird, it’s unprecedented, it’s scary, but most of all, it’s embarrassing.It’s embarrassing because, after years of truly believing the NCAA’s expansive and finely-tuned “Collegiate athletes did not just become employees last week. They became employees As Peter Sung Ohr, the Chicago regional director of the National Labor Relations Board, pointed out in his There are only four components to the 1. An employee provides the employer with 2. An employee is under 3. An employee agrees to give the employer some level of 4. So finally, an employee receives Simple.So those who still somehow believe that these individuals are not indeed simultaneously students and employees of the universities must fall into one of two camps: Either they do not know the common law definition of an employee (in which case they should frankly educate themselves before participating in the discussion and forming their opinions), or they are deceiving themselves so that they can clasp onto a false ideal that has worked out so well for them for so long.I have to believe that the NCAA falls into the latter category. Surely these executives, These oligarchs have spun lie after lie, red herring after red herring, in order to get you to believe (or perhaps to get themselves to believe) that somehow college athletes should be treated differently than every single other member of civil society in America. Don’t fall into the trap.Yes, college athletics is probably going to look somewhat different now in certain respects. That’s kind of the whole point of this movement. Thank you So far it’s working. Recent polls show that Before you read any further, I need you to accept a five-word truth that is difficult, and strange, and not what we are often taught to believe in American society today:This is not about you.It’s not about the fans, the coaches, the executives, the I’m sorry that the status quo — a state of affairs that has been so convenient for us and that we have held so dear — is all about to change. But the faster you accept that we were wrong, the easier it will be to get over it. Trust me.If you really think that unionization will have an ultimately negative impact on the lives of college athletes, you should not be trying to convince the NLRB. You should not be trying to convince the Supreme Court, Congress or even the American public. You should be trying to convince the college athletes.After years of being told what to do and think and say, these individuals will finally have some actual control over their own future. They are the employees who will now have the option to vote to form a union — if and when the universities stop pouring millions of dollars into legal fees simply to delay the inevitable.This preliminary debate is not even about what’s ultimately “best” for the athletes, it’s simply about what is right. Ohr’s job as the Chicago director of the NLRB is not to decide what is best for anyone at all, it is to interpret the law, which he did with remarkable clarity.If Congress really does feel strongly about the dangers of unionization, they have the option to make college athletes an exception to the rule through legislation. Personally, I think that such a measure would be an extremely dangerous path to take. If legislators make one exception to the legal definition of employment, what is to stop them from continuously expanding those exemptions to other forms of labor whenever they deem it convenient? But, again, that’s a debate for another day.To be honest, I have no idea whether the athletes should unionize or not. I do not envy them as they wrestle with that decision because it is admittedly a difficult one with nuanced consequences. I have no idea whether such a process would be the best possible solution for everyone involved. But I do know that the athletes have a The idea of students being employed by their university while also studying is hardly new. Work-study jobs have existed for decades at some institutions as a way for students to earn money from the university in order to help pay tuition — working at help desks, the school bookstore, etc. Perhaps work-study is a model that college athletics can move towards, but we’ll only find out if we have the conversation.This story isn’t just about greed, but rather it’s more about simple interests. For decades, the only interests that have been involved in this one-way discussion have been those of the NCAA and their member schools. That’s not how a democratic society works. The other side has gone wholly unrepresented.It is not surprising that the NCAA will do absolutely anything in its power to protect its interests — raking in billions of dollars off the backs of college athletes while incurring minimal costs. That’s what an economic self-interested rational actor is supposed to do. Unfortunately they’ve gone so far as to rig the system such that their voice is the only one at the table. That’s cheating. We have Below are the three most common opposing responses so far to the ruling that college athletes are indeed employees:1. “They already get a free education (2. “It’s not in the athletes’ best interests to be employees.”3. “But… but… It just doesn’t Needless to say, none of these holds any relevance whatsoever to the actual facts of the case and the fact that The NCAA can If we decide that we really want actual amateurism, then the players should voluntarily play for free — meaning no more athletic scholarships. That’s what amateurism means everywhere else in the world. Walk-ons and Division III athletes are the only real amateurs in American college sports. If you receive a scholarship, even if that scholarship is worth one dollar, you are an employee.Alternatively, we can accept that these athletes are what they are, professional employees, and start treating them with the same rights as everyone else, including the ability to negotiate their compensation if they deem that a scholarship is not of accurate value to their proper market worth. (It should be noted that, so far, These negotiations will be difficult. Thank you to Sally Jenkins for pointing that out in her As John Feinstein We should all be thanking a divine power that Jenkins had no role in American development in the 19th and 20th centuries, or progress would have been completely impossible. One can only imagine her likely columns throughout U.S. History:I know that all you fans, like me, were not intentionally suppressing the rights of these athletes because of some sort of malevolent streak. We were all wrong, but we are not evil. Perhaps even the NCAA genuinely did not realize what they have been doing all along. And indeed, many students that might otherwise have been unable to afford a college education have been helped by this system through the decades. But that does not make it right.Of course, in the grand scheme of things, none of this matters. On the list of global priorities, this issue could hardly be any lower. Frankly, nobody outside America gives a flying shit about what happens to our college athletes, nor do they even understand why we take it so seriously to begin with. And a lot of the journalists covering this story, including myself, have been guilty of using plenty of hyperbole and sweeping generalizations to make our point. But just because this topic is not particularly significant does not mean that we should not try our best to fix a blatant flaw in the system.It’s time to stop pretending. It’s time to accept the indisputable evidence. It’s time to start creating solutions so that we can maintain some of the aspects we love about college sports, while reforming those that are clearly wrong. It’s time to move on. So don’t get left behind.Anything and everything that relates to college football.

In 2007 we both worked at Nokia. When Apple announced the iPhone most people shrugged and said things like “Full screen touch will always be a niche”, “Hardware keyboards are way better for texting” or “Our cameras have way more megapixels”. Sports watches emerged with the commercialisation of heart rate monitoring technology. Over the next couple of decades, new sensors like GPS and step counters gave sports watches broader capabilities and enabled sports watch makers to create portfolios of products targeted at runners, cyclists, mountaineers, gym-goers trying to improve their performance. And sports watches, like all watches, allowed us to make a statement. It’s the same fixed-purpose-to-general-purpose shift that the iPhone ushered in and it will consume a large portion of the sports watch market. Here’s why; there’s basically one reason to buy a sport’s watch. Sport. There are hundreds, and soon thousands of reasons to buy an Apple watch, not least of which is because it’s made by Apple. ‘Cycling is the new golf’ and ‘Triathlon is the new marathon’The sports watch market is going to change radically, but there are lessons from the past, which can help companies to adapt and thrive. We live in a world where performance matters to more people than ever before. And while the Apple Watch will kill the Sports Watch as we know it, We are happy to talk and share more of our thoughts, and we are equally interested in hearing your thoughts and ideas. Feel free to drop us a line:Polar introduced the first wearable, wireless heart rate monitor, the Polar Sport Tester PE2000 in 1982 — Garmin introduced the first GPS watch, the ForRunner 101, in 2003 — Smartphones are adopted faster then any other technology in history — Ben Thomason: How Apple will make the wearable market — Marc Andressen: Why software is eating the world — We are power-users and power-makers that believe a changing landscape provides ample opportunities to learn and grow both personally and professionally.

I went out the other night with a couple of girl friends and some guys at a small bar. The night was fun as conversations about work and life ensued. Behind the heads of the guys across from me was a TV. The football game was on. It wasn’t my team — but it was an important game as the outcome would affect my team’s playoff chances. Not to mention, I had a few of my fantasy players in the game, and I was on the verge of being eliminated. As I tried to focus on the conversation in front of me, I often found my eyes traveling up to the screen checking the score.The game was not going as I had hoped. I let out a groan and hit the table. “Are you watching the game?,” one of the guys asked. I explained I wasn’t purposefully watching the game, but I couldn’t help but check the score. I couldn’t stop myself from looking up. The regular season was ending and time was running out! They started to laugh. Not laugh as if I had just told a delightfully clever joke — but laugh as if I were a child who had done something silly. “What do you even know about football anyway?,” one of them asked. And I tried to remain calm.What do I know about football? Ask me anything. I was born and raised in South Texas, where football, for many, is life. You never asked anyone what their plans were on Friday nights because you already knew the answer: they were going to the football game. I watched my older cousins play the game, and I learned to play as soon as I could walk. What do I know about football? I’ve studied plays, receiver routes, penalties, and players — because to play in my family and to live where I’m from, you must know what you’re doing. I witnessed high school classmates get recruited to play in college and followed their careers. What do I know about football? The first jersey I ever owned was a mini Brett Favre #4. For Halloween one year I dressed up as a football player instead of a princess. What do I know about football? I can name past Heisman winners and who the current contenders were. I can tell you which teams won their division in the NFL and who the wildcards are.I didn’t say any of this. No, instead, I simply said, “I know some stuff about football.” They laughed and asked me who my team was. I told them I was a Packers fan because my dad’s family is in Wisconsin. I probably have a crush on some of the players, they thought. They patronized me by asking me “football trivia” that they would never have asked another man. They patronized me again when they said, “You know the Packers aren’t playing right now?” My calm demeanor was quickly evaporating, being replaced by a burning fire inside to scream at them or maybe even hit something.The stereotypes of women having to confine themselves to hobbies such as cooking, knitting, or baking are outdated and absurd. Wake up, it’s 2014! It’s a shame I have to justify the activities I enjoy simply because of my gender. There is a generation of women out there who will undoubtedly know more about sports than men. There are women who are not afraid to get sweaty on the field or on the court, and they play physical. Women who will sometimes drag you out to a bar so they can see the game, instead of going to the fancy restaurant with no TVs.But we are no less womanly because we are passionate about sports. We are just as feminine as the woman who in fact, does enjoy cooking. To tell you the truth, some of us know how to bake a damn good cake, and we will rock that little black dress just as good, or even better than the next woman. We are gentle and loving and compassionate. So please stop condemning us. We don’t want you to look at us as like we are cute for following sports, and we don’t want you to think better of us for that matter either. Women who are crazy about sports are tired of proving they know what they are talking about. We just want to find someone who accepts that about us, without laughing.I have been shark cage diving off the coast of South Africa. I am a writer. Follow my journey: Reflections on building our own paths and overcoming the struggles along the way. Share your path: careers, love, and self-growth, etc.

“You’re a sportswriter, huh? Nice. So how much sexism do you deal with, anyway?”Believe it or not, my male colleagues aren’t asked this question very often. Nor are their wives asked, “Does your wife knowing so much about sports intimidate you?” My husband has been asked that. A lot. Admittedly, though, as often as people inquire about my “working conditions,” they almost immediately follow up with a truly genuine, “Wow, what a cool job!”And it is.I’ve covered guys like Hakeem Nicks, and was there for the rise of Duke football. When basketball season rolls around, I get to cover two Hall of Famers in Roy Williams and Mike Krzyzewski, and sit in the best seat in the house at Cameron Indoor Stadium. I’ve interviewed Danny Green, Ty Lawson and the Plumlees before they became NBA starters (would have predicted one out of four of those, by the way). I’ve covered Mark Gottfried’s revitalization of the North Carolina State program, and witnessed the play of T.J. Warren — one of the best players I’ve ever seen live.So I’m not complaining, per se. Some of my female colleagues have, particularly the ones that work at major newspapers and/or have strong opinions. The amount of pejoratives in their mentions alarms and disturbs me, even though the go-to excuse for that kind of behavior — even by those who don’t engage in it — seems to be they were “asking” for it. It just hasn’t really happened to me. Kind of.And so when I am asked about it, I tell people that I haven’t really had to deal with any sexism at work. Only that isn’t entirely true.Recently, an ACC assistant basketball coach questioned — publicly, I might add — my knowledge of Of the Growing up down South, Ironically, that I am so often asked how much sexism I deal with is, in fact, its own form of benevolent sexism, but it’s so widely engrained, it’s hard to un-blur the lines. And there are many, many degrees of it. When a colleague comments that my husband must be a saint to put up with my weird hours, is that necessarily inappropriate? Considering those observations are often followed by, “My wife can’t stand it, either,” the context lends perspective.When I first entered the sportswriting profession a decade ago, I was fresh out of college, covering players that were my age, and in some cases, a year or two younger. I braced myself for the treatment of women that I’d been warned about, but it never happened. I still talk to many of the male athletes I covered back then, and I realize now that they inadvertently helped me grow comfortable as a journalist.It wasn’t always easy, though. I dressed extremely conservatively as to not draw attention to myself, desperately wanting to be taken seriously. For the first year, I didn’t even ask any questions of players or coaches unless we were alone, out of fear of somehow sounding less knowledgeable than my male peers. Somewhere, in the back of my mind, there was this nagging sense that I had a responsibility to all women until I was absolutely sure that I could do the job.Over the years, when anything even remotely questionable occurred with respect to sexist behavior (benevolent or otherwise), I brushed it off or dismissed it completely. I sure wasn’t going to rock the boat in any way that might make I’m not so green anymore, I dress how I want to dress and I never hesitate to ask questions. I’m more comfortable in my reporting skin, something that has come with both age and experience, probably.But I have never felt more isolated as a woman in the media than I did when the Jameis Winston rape allegations first surfaced last year. The assumptions made about the alleged victim were enough to turn my stomach — and they were made by both men And that was when my self-realization as a so-called feminist became clear. Though I can’t fight every instance of benevolent sexism — nor do I want to try — there are times when I can take a stand. Though I can’t be effective while on the defensive, awaiting the next expected offense, I can do my part to advance the cause. And that holds true whether we are talking about the rights of rape victim or the workplace environment for women working in fields predominantly ruled by men.So as I go about my business this season and next, I do so knowing that this issue isn’t going away anytime soon — especially when sites like I cover all things Triangle/ACC sports as a freelance sportswriter for FOX Sports Carolinas. Also, Im an amateur TV/movie critic. Or wannabe. Whatever.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

I doodle a lot.  thisisindexed.com  jessicahagy.infoCharts, cartoons, visual humor and neat stuff. 

Most people would probably agree that playing catch with a hand grenade is a bad idea. On one occasion in 2005, three young people died in Bosnia while horsing around with one of these small bombs, But throwing is throwing. And over the years, U.S. Army weaponeers have designed grenades shaped just like balls in order to capitalize on soldiers’ existing experience with sports such as football and baseball.When the United States entered World War I, the Army was both inexperienced and ill-equipped compared to its European counterparts. Washington rushed to purchase weapons from its better-prepared allies.The deliveries included French F-1 hand grenades, which the Army quickly copied. The ground combat branch’s iconic Mark II grenade—which troops nicknamed “pineapple” owing to its checkered body—shares its basic structure with the French weapon.While the Mark II was the default grenade for U.S. troops throughout World War II, Army officials were never entirely satisfied with the European-style design.These unspecified personnel included members of the Office of Strategic Services—the predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency. By 1944, the Army Ordnance Department was working with the OSS on various prototypes.OSS specifically proposed a weapon that would be no more than nine and a half inches in circumference and weigh five or so ounces—the same as a regulation baseball. The Mark II was four times as heavy as this proposed design.The new grenade—which the Army designated T-13 and soldiers nicknamed “beano”—also had a special fuze that would explode when the grenade hit the ground. This feature should have prevented a quick-thinking enemy troop from tossing a bomb back at the thrower.Unfortunately, the mechanism was extremely sensitive. To arm the grenade, a soldier pulled a traditional pin and chucked the sphere. In the original design, a plate on top of the fuze flew off and another spring-loaded pin popped out, allowing other parts to move around as intended.A strong throw at the wrong angle might cause the beano to detonate too close to the thrower. The T-13 also gave soldiers no time to run for cover after a weak toss.A redesigned fuze, where the plate acted like a parachute and pulled out the second pin as the grenade flew toward its target, didn’t make the weapon any safer.When World War II ended, the Army finally canned the project as Washington slashed military spending and sent troops home. By that time, Eastman Kodak had produced more than 10,000 grenades with the above fuze types, Dee writes.Over the course of the program, the ground combat branch had also created versions filled with incendiary white phosphorus and fitted with traditional, timed fuzes.The White House’s National Defense Research Committee—created by executive order in 1940—hoped the beano project might “stimulate future developers to successful production of a weapon of this type,” according to a post-war review.Ultimately, the Army Today soldiers typically refer to the small bomb as a “baseball grenade.” “In 1988, I don’t believe there was a soldier in training who had not thrown a baseball,” says Sgt. 1st Class Brent Sauer, a member of the Missouri Army National Guard’s 1st Battalion, 138th Infantry Regiment.During training, “the drill sergeant emphasized that if you could throw a baseball, you could throw these grenades,” Sauer adds. “That first live grenade throw seemed as important as the winning pitch in the World Series.”Though the baseball shape has become popular, Army experiments also included grenades based on the American football.In 1973, the Army’s Land Warfare Laboratory started testing possible designs for an anti-tank grenade. At the time, the ground combat branch lacked a weapon like this.Commanders in Europe had asked for some sort of ordnance for destroying tanks in close quarters. If Warsaw Pact troops had invaded, NATO soldiers could have found themselves taking on armored vehicles in cities and towns.American commanders noticed that the Soviets had special anti-tank grenades for such a scenario. Army technicians offered five different prototypes of their own.The prototype inserted the tank-busting charge inside a hollowed-out Nerf football. Parker Brothers—which introduced the lightweight, foam balls in 1969—doesn’t appear to have been actively involved in the project.The Army testers found that the “ball”—with its weigh in the center—was unstable in flight and “did not work as envisioned,” according to the documentation. Actual footballs are hollow on the inside.In contrast to the baseball-style weapons, the ground combat branch never fielded any football-shaped grenades. The anti-tank grenade itself never caught on in the U.S. military.Current Army manuals make no mention of sports or balls when it comes to grenades. “Since few soldiers throw in the same manner, it is difficult to establish firm rules or techniques for throwing hand grenades,” one handbook points ouit.“If a soldier can achieve more distance and accuracy using his own personal style, he should be allowed to do so as long as his body is facing sideways, towards the enemy’s position, and he throws basically overhand,” the document adds.But at least a decade ago, the sports references still came up regularly during training, Sauer says. “I guess it was just an easy, convenient reference young men can relate too.”Freelance Journalist, Historian, and Military AnalystFrom drones to AKs, high technology to low politics, exploring how and why we fight above, on and below an angry world

“When you’re right, nobody remembers. When you’re wrong, nobody forgets.” “I always know what a dog is thinking. I just look at a dog, and I know. It’s: I’m hungry.” “Every day is great — it’s a day extra.” “You can’t help a motherfucker sitting on his ass, crying the blues.” “When my father hurt the ligaments in his knee, he had to stop playing, and this brought my family many financial problems. I was about 10 years old at the time. My mother had to go out and wash clothes to help support us. My mother told me, ‘Don’t play, because your father played and then he got hurt and now he can’t provide for the family. Get an education.’ It was a different time, but she was right. Finally, she said, ‘You were born to play soccer. You have the talent to play soccer. But you’re never going to be a great man unless you go to school and study.’ That was one of the biggest lessons she ever gave me.” “You get to thinking, “When I first started racing, my father, one of the first things he said, he said, ‘Win the race as slow as you can.’”“I was playin’ American Legion Baseball. Bobby Hoffman, used to play with the Giants, we were on the same team. We never had dugouts. We’re sittin’ on the ground. I always had my legs crossed and my arms folded. Bobby said, ‘You look like a yogi.’ And it stuck.” “A nickname means you belong.” “I love Joe Frazier. He’s been an original from day one. A few years back, Joe, Muhammad, and I did a video in England. After the taping, we were at a charity dinner with some of the royal family. They were serving lamb chops with mint jelly — beautiful food. The waiter asked, ‘Can I get you anything else?’ And Joe said, ‘I want some more green jelly.’ The waiter said, ‘Do you mean mint sauce?’ And Joe said, ‘Same thing.’ And I thought, “Nobody knows where the nose goes when the door’s closed.” The essential Esquire, from 1933 to now.Wit, wisdom, and damn good advice from extraordinary people

Sports are and have been an integral part to any and every culture and society that has existed on earth. From the Sumerians of 3k BC wrestling each other for glory or the competitive hunters before them jockeying for the position of a clan leader to the modern-day skateboarders, and extreme junkies that fuel all of those Red Bull and DC shoe ads.Sports teach us how to set goals.Sports then teach us how to develop our skills over a period of time to help us meet those goals.Sports teach us how to work together as a team for something greater than individual ambition.Sports teach us that we are not going to be great at everything we do.Sports teach us how to be humble winners and not so sore losers.Sports are what gets this lazy screen addicted culture moving again.Sports bring passion and excitement to spectators, allowing them to forget about the conflicts and world around them even for just a short while.Sports are there supporting us at every stage of our lives, from toddler ball thrower to little league star to letterman jacket to weekend pick up games and then for most, just fans of the same teams of our fathers and mothers. Generations of fans from child to great grandparent all routing together for the same win in the same house. Name something else other than religion or tragedy that can bring families together like this?Sports do so much good in this world that to think about banning them would leave a gap too wide to fill in our hearts and culture.There have always been risks when participating in any sport just like any other activity we undertake. It is up to the individual to weigh those risks for themselves and determine if it is worth it. How many people still get into a car every morning to drive to work even though millions of people get hurt in accidents? We weigh the risks against our goals and take action from there. Unfortuatley, our society places an emphasis on the wrong goals.Sports and athletes have been evangelized to the point where becoming a professional athlete is akin to winning the lottery and being set for life. Many children look at athletes as both an idol and lucky ticket holder and aspire to become that athlete at the pinnacle of their career without having awareness of what comes next. It is only just recently that we are becoming more aware of the long-term effects of professional sports. Not only the injury but also the debt of living a baller lifestyle too young without long term planning.With access to this new information, both children and adults can then make better choices for themselves on whether or not they want to take a chance at greatness knowing what can happen. Because having that choice and freedom is something we cannot just take away. Who are we to judge others dreams just because of the risk? How many actors and actresses trek out to LA to become a star just to end up on the streets or in the adult film industry? How many soldiers joined the military after 9/11 to come back mentally or physically destroyed? There are risks in every job and in the process to achieve to any goal.Maybe if we as a culture promoted teachers and civil servants as much as athletes and actors, our children would want to become more like them instead. But that does not align with how we talk to our children. We tell them they can be anything they want as long as they work hard enough. Our billboards and media show them that they need to be rich and successful. For the children who dont have access to VC funding, this means sports.Your real challenge here is changing the definition of what success looks like in our culture and changing the reward model to support it. Instead of a million dollar sign-on bonus for an athlete maybe it should go to the teacher of the year.Maybe you should change your slogan from #bansports to #ChangeWhatSuccessLooksLikeImagine something different. Engage to make change. Evolve what you are.

How you play a sport says a lot about your leadership qualities. Sport tests your true potential, challenges your fears and pushes your limits. So if you think it’s time to break past those limits and become a truly inspiring leader, here’s what you should do: head out to the playing field. If not, switch on the TV and watch the game like they did in the old days. Some of the best lessons on leadership are hidden in there. Here, we take a look at some of the most important ones.We often take failure to heart and let it affect our self esteem. This spiral of negativity continues till we succeed. Until then, we remain stuck in an abyss of constant disappointment and live miserably. But sports alters the way we look at failure. It helps us adopt a new perspective and use our setbacks to fuel our passion.Leaders should, therefore, focus on what failure has to offer rather than its consequences. Whether it’s instability in cash flow or a nerve-racking sales call, just focus on learning from those lows and aim for a high the next time.A sportsperson knows that success is all about timing: knowing when to play safe and when to take risks.It’s possible to get carried away by a moment and jump right in, without assessing the risk involved. For example, we might want to start a business and spend all our savings on it. Or quit a job within a month of joining. But these hasty decisions aren’t likely to work out if you’re not prepared to handle the consequences of these risky moves.Sports teaches us that we need to train hard to play the game constantly well, and sometimes take risks to get to the next level.Even in business, though it’s important to take risks, it’s equally important to know when not to take them. Use both your mind and heart to decide when to play safe and when to take a risk.We all have fears. No matter how experienced we are in our spheres, we feel moments of great anxiety. If you’ve ever played a sport, you’ve probably experienced this many times. But do you see that you always managed to surpass those moments of fear? How did that happen?It happened because the challenges we faced while playing transformed our fears into a lethal force.We must learn to do the same at our workplace. We should not let our feelings take away the focus from productivity and performance. Instead we must use our anxiety to work better and succeed.We can work alone and develop our skills. But for true success, it’s important to know how to team up and use team skills to succeed. In sports, you can’t win by playing alone. You have to work with your team, improve on your individual skills and win together.As an entrepreneur or a project manager, you can’t ignore the fact that you’re a leader and can’t afford to just think about yourself. Sport, in that sense, is a powerful symbol of teamwork. It teaches us coordination, helps build mutual trust, keeps our energies clear and shuts the door on our egos.Limitless is here to spread knowledge into the information age, because information may provide data, but knowledge can free your mind.Curated Writings where Information becomes Knowledge. Look around and become Limitless!

Stop treating sports journalism like a get-rich-quick scheme.It’s not.It’s one of the most competitive fields you can break into, and entering the sports media job market isn’t as straightforward as it is other careers. It takes more than “knowing about sports.” Sportswriting is entertainment as much as it is informative. People need a reason to read you, watch you or listen to you — and simply “Each and every day, I receive multiple emails or messages on Twitter from young (or vintage) writers looking for advice on how to get into the industry. So, here’s my best advice in seven simple steps:Again, there is no template for success. This is just my best advice that was passed down to me from generations of news men and women. Hopefully it helps.Content Lead at Staance.com | Past NBA writer for Fox Sports, Turner Sports, NBA.com, NBC Sports and The Sacramento Bee. Opinions are my own.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

New Yorker cartoonist. Maker of Lulu Eightball. Illustratrix. Baker of pies. Owner of cat. Wife of man. Mother of child. Political cartoons, comics journalism, humor and non-fiction. Words plus pictures.

So, are sports fans ready to cheer on openly gay players?A body of recent research suggests they are. A number of studies published over the last three years have found a steep decline in homophobic attitudes among both athletes and fans.There’s no question that NBA player “Research on masculinities and homophobia today shows that, even in the traditionally conservative institution of sport, matters have shifted dramatically,” Anderson, who became America’s first openly gay high-school coach in 2000, knows this as well as anyone; he has been researching homosexuality in sports for well over a decade. During that time, he has seen a dramatic shift in attitudes, which he charts in In it, he describes 52 interviews he conducted with gay male athletes on school-affiliated teams in the United States. Twenty-six of them went public with their sexual orientation between 2000 and 2002; the other 26 did so between 2008 and 2010. Those in the latter group “have had better experiences after coming out than those in the earlier cohort,” he reports, “experiencing less heterosexism and maintaining better support among their teammates.”Anderson’s tentative conclusion: “Either sport in America has ‘learned’ from pioneering openly gay athletes, or (much more likely) cultural homophobia has decreased among the local cultures that the 26 men of the 2010 sample inhabit.”In all versions of the article, the player was described as a hard-working, well-liked five-year veteran of the team. But some of the study participants also read that he had recently come out as gay. Afterwards, they rated him on positive and negative characteristics, and described whether he was right for the team or should be traded.Surprisingly, “participants rated the gay male player significantly more favorably than the heterosexual team member,” the researchers reported in the OK, but that’s a group of college students. How about the hard-core sports fans—those who post comments on message boards? Surely we’ll find homophobia there.Yes, but not as much as you’d think. At least, that’s the central finding of Despite “some orthodox views toward homosexuality,” he writes, “a majority of (a team’s) supporters demonstrate more inclusivity through the rejection of posts that they feel have pernicious homophobic intent.” He found that fans “frequently challenge” posts deriding players due to their sexual orientation, “and suggest that on-the-field performance is what is valued the most.”Presuming Collins returns to the NBA next season, it seems likely that most fans of his new team will have a similar reaction: We’re happy to have you, so long as you help our team win.Pacific Standard tells stories about society’s biggest problems, both established and emerging, and the people attempting to solve them.Pacific Standard covers the nation’s biggest issues in economics, education, the environment, and justice by focusing on what shapes human behavior.

When I awoke to the news that a handful of FIFA officials had been A total of 14 men were charged, and seven were arrested in Zurich early Wednesday, as the result of an FBI investigation Meanwhile, the Swiss attorney general’s office announced a We all know FIFA is On the one hand, that it took this long for FIFA president Sepp Blatter to face a serious challenge to his power is mind-boggling. It’s yet to be determined — Attorney General Loretta Lynch says the investigation into other FIFA members is ongoing — exactly how much blood Blatter has directly on his hands, but at the least, he sits powerfully atop a thoroughly corrupt organization and has profited handsomely from that power.Today’s events are still cause for optimism, though. Perhaps soccer, the beautiful game, can be saved from the hideous governing body with which it’s become synonymous. Perhaps the same will go for football and the NFL; big-time college sports and the NCAA; the Olympics and the IOC.That might sound naïve, but I’m not saying a sports utopia is going to arrive tomorrow. I am saying it’s no coincidence that, over the past several years, all four of the aforementioned sports monoliths have suffered significant public relations blows. The NFL has been exposed for Here’s the problem for Sepp Blatter types in 2015: keeping a secret these days is damn near impossible. The Dr. Evil underground lair approach doesn’t work anymore. Donald Sterling In 2015, when people learn they’re being swindled, manipulated and lied to, they tend to speak up. They fight back. They demand better. Same goes for athletes, who have become increasingly willing to raise middle fingers to the sports-industrial machine and question their position within it.Don’t get me wrong: my optimism is cautious. The fact that the U.S. Department of Justice is responsible for the FIFA investigation doesn’t exactly fill me with hope that justice will be served. But regardless of how this case plays out, FIFA’s reputation has been delivered a crushing blow. This could lead to the withdrawal of World Cup sponsorships by the likes of Whether you believe sports can truly be “saved” from its corrupting forces — amoral governing bodies, greedy owners, corporate influence, globalization itself — probably depends on your view of where our entire planet is headed. If you believe what Regardless, after what happened Wednesday morning, it would seem disingenuous to just throw up your hands, admit that sports are morally screwed, and carry on assuming nothing will ever change. Sports, if they can’t be totally saved, can at least be better.Soccer can be so much better. It got better today.Journalist. Have written for MLB dot com, SI and the Boston Globe. Tufts Daily alum. Talker of sports and politics.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

No sense easing you into it. I might as well dive right in and let you know that human growth hormone is legal in the NFL now. Back in 2013, where you’re from, the They also weren’t sure the extent to which it would impact performance, muscle mass or injury recovery. In the last 17 years, doctors have actually found that the negative side effects are minimal, and that HGH can be an effective healing tool when used in the right circumstances under doctor supervision.HGH is now legal for the purpose of injury recovery and by prescription only. Treatment is supervised by a team of independent physicians contracted by the National Football League. A regular testing program was also implemented to combat improper use of the substance.Speaking of injury recovery, Kobe’s knee treatment was finally approved by the FDA and is now legal in the United States. This procedure, also known as the One of those discreet components has been found to increase natural healing abilities and reduce inflammation. Following the manipulation of the blood, this liquid is injected back into the athlete’s affected area. This treatment is now commonplace, primarily for knee and other joint injuries.In 2013, researchers were already on the verge of even more sophisticated treatments including This is often used for athletes who have experienced injuries such as torn knee cartilage. Derrick Rose, already on the brink of an injury-plagued career in 2013, suffered yet another knee injury in 2015.Instead of opting for surgery, as he had after 2013’s torn meniscus, Rose was one of the first American athletes to opt for the new stem cell procedure instead. He went on to play 12 additional years in the NBA, winning two national championships and a total of three MVP awards.Old procedures are also more common than ever now. Due to the dominance of pitching in your time, Major League Baseball decided to lower the mound again in 2015 (one of the first major acts of new commissioner Rob Manfred).The aim of generating more runs also had the negative consequence of forcing pitchers to exert even more effort to throw at the same or lower speeds. Tommy John surgery is done on virtually almost every big league pitcher with at least 500 innings now.Under Manfred’s tenor, baseball has also done a complete 180, becoming a leader in instant replay technology. Yes, the baseball purists lost the war. Somewhere around your time, the powers-that-be realized that the advancement of technology was quickly and inevitably becoming a trend that would continue to shape the face of sports on a regular basis. MLB was concerned about removing the human element of the game but finally ceded to pressure to keep up with its other professional league counterparts.As you know, in 2014, baseball began using an enhanced replay system, allowing for manager challenges during games. At that time, all replays were handled by one central review facility in New York. Now, similar to college football, every play of the game is automatically reviewed (excluding balls and strikes). Each stadium has review capabilities in-house. If an umpire calls a safe man out at first, he immediately hears the correct call from the booth through a headset.He himself wouldn’t make the correction — saving the time of having to look at footage. A member of the umpiring squad is assigned to the booth position. A change is only made when evidence is “indisputable” to borrow a term you surely recognize. Managers still have challenges, but still just the two that they had back in 2014. The difference with challenges now is that managers can challenge a called strike three.The concern was always that enhanced replay would slow the game down. In baseball, this couldn’t be further from the truth. Quick and clear calls have put an end to managers arguing. That is, in fact, illegal now except in circumstances not related to play outcomes (e.g. Alex Rodriguez getting plunked by Ryan Dempster in 2013).Commissioner Manfred also cracked down on an already existing rule, the time limit between pitches. Unbeknownst to many baseball fans in your day, the rules state that a pitcher can use only 12 seconds between pitches. In 2013, the actual average time between pitches was an astounding 27 seconds! Manfred simply began enforcing the 12-second rule, vastly shortening the length of games and allowing more time to be used for replay when needed.Auto-officiating has helped speed things along as well. In 2013, a company called InfoMotion Sports Technologies developed a groundbreaking new basketball called the Also in 2013, sensors on players were being developed by a German football club. The sensors were placed on the athletes’ bodies with the goal of measuring various aspects of performance such as speed, acceleration, and ball contact.Now, these two concepts have been combined and enhanced to include GPS functionality and ultimately enable auto-officiating in applicable circumstances. For example, the NFL uses footballs with not just sensors to measure movement data, but also with a GPS function. Using this function, spots are no longer made by officials, but by the ball itself automatically.The sensors on the player and the ball work together — pinpointing the precise location of the ball when the players’ knee hits the ground. An app sends the information directly to the official, who physically spots the ball.Regarding the NFL, player safety continued to be a concern even after the CTE lawsuit was settled. The legalization of HGH came about as a result of the increasing pressure on the NFL to do something about player safety. There was no testing for HGH, and therefore the likelihood was that some players were using and some weren’t — thereby UN-leveling the playing field.All sports continued to make safety a major priority, with the NFL and NHL making significant advancements in helmets to fight off concussions. Safety continues to be an issue, yet both leagues are doing well as businesses. The real consequence of safety concerns is a dramatic drop in youth participation. In 2030, we can already see the effect this has on the shrinking of the talent pool across the both football and hockey.Training methods and talent assessment have evolved as well. In 2013, Dr. Jocelyn Faubert of the University of Montreal was doing some These methods helped improve athletes’ abilities to track multiple objects at varying speeds and make quicker decisions due to faster and more efficient processing of information inside their heads. All major team sports (professional and college) now regularly use cognitive training methods based on Dr. Faubert’s studies.Along these lines, cognitive abilities are now part of player assessments. The wonderlic is (thankfully) long-gone, and the traditional drills done at the NFL Combine carry less weight than they did in 2013. Physical assessments are still done, but in conjunction with mental ones.As you know, social media was booming in 2013, drastically impacting the way teams, leagues and brands engaged fans. Twitter and YouTube are not only still being used as useful marketing tools, but they are in fact the primary tools. Every professional sports franchise has a social media department, sprawling with tech and marketing experts. Fan engagement is the number one priority in sports marketing, and integration of various social media platforms has blossomed as well.I’m sad to inform you that the secondary ticket market did, as you might have predicted, dramatically impact the way fans view games. We are in an archaic society of “haves” and “have-nots” in the sports fan world, and almost everyone who attends the big games in professional and revenue-college sports is someone’s client, someone’s agency representative, or just plain rich.A positive byproduct of that has been that the in-home viewing experience is outstanding. Fans now view sports in their homes on huge 3D televisions. Creative camera angles and player helmet cameras are the norm. The 2013 partnership between Microsoft and the NFL that produced a new level of fan engagement with the Xbox One was revolutionary. Fans now partake in video social networking as they watch games through devices like the original Xbox One.Sports writing has changed dramatically as well. The only sports content generated by actual human imagination is creative content. All game recaps are generated automatically now by software. In 2013, Well, those are pretty much the highlights. Oh and just for kicks, I thought you might like to know that the NCAA lost the Rumblings from the intersection of sports and technology.

Yes, basketball free throws are slow.They are certainly not for people who toss back double espressos while charging through Twitter. Think about it: In the time it takes Tim Duncan to shoot a pair from the charity stripe, the quick-typing can share their dismay in 140 characters But free throws, at least to me, remain a compelling facet of the game. The act demands poise and focus, and also requires players to specialize — in shooting! (A novel idea, I know.) Maybe, just maybe … if players can’t consistently make a 15-foot freebie, it’s time to get ‘em off the floor.In this year’s NBA playoffs, coaches have typically left their worst shooters on the floor in crunch time, watching them absorb foul after foul only to fumble free throw attempts like Hugh Grant in, well, everything. In fact, some players’ inability to consistently covert (read: at all) has prompted even more fouling. See, e.g., Dwight Howard of the Houston Rockets and DeAndre Jordan of the Los Angeles Clippers.Beyond the poor aesthetics, though, the reemergence of the “Hack a Shaq” strategy has also managed to slow down the overall pace of games this postseason.Fans are divided. Purists love the strategic element of it all, while those concerned with “entertainment value” are beside themselves. The latter can be found collecting petition signatures and calling their local members of Congress to get basketball’s rule book amended. Those folks, however — perhaps just outraged for outrage’s sake — are missing the bigger picture.Listen, good shooting isn’t If you need evidence of this, simply watch the Rockets’ James Harden, runner-up for the league’s MVP Award this year. He’s made an elite NBA career out of drawing fouls! Watch him toy with defenders, dribble incessantly and draw a remarkable amount of contact — or not. I certainly do.Consider, for a moment, And yet, now, in an era that tends to filter the experience of life through an Internet browser, everything about sports is made so much smaller (and more immediate). Tiny pieces of arbitrary information are fired at us by giant content services like BuzzFeed, Yahoo and The Huffington Post, producing “everything” at every minute of every hour. The result is that larger sports narratives are too often reduced to fleeting moments. What we are left with are eye-popping headlines and looped clips of a fan spilling his beer while catching a fly ball.Surely, no one has time for free throws amid such chaos.Look, I get it. There’s an ongoing challenge for media outlets to fill up 24 hours’ worth of content space. That is the beauty and horror of online publishing; it never sleeps. But while writers and editors devote so much time to gossip magazine style segments and aggregating TMZ scoops, we sports fans are left feeling like our plane has been hijacked, and then diverted to a place we never signed up for.It’s not just in basketball, either. Stoppages for free throws have no place anymore, it seems. But then again, neither do nine innings of baseball. Come to think of it, it’s happening outside of sports, too. It’s the reason why we can’t, you know, have movies with characters who don’t possess super powers.And it’s not just the web that revels in #FastTakes. Popular TV and radio have become notorious contributors to this state of play. For example, there’s SportsCenter, ESPN’s flagship offering, where a dazzling mix of graphics and sound overwhelms the viewer in a permanent cacophonous disarray. The viewer doesn’t know whether to follow the ball, break out the glow sticks and pacifiers, pull up IMDB to decipher the anchors’ movie references.None of this would be such an issue if the general trend wasn’t headed at breakneck speed toward unbridled sensationalism. ESPN is no longer a I know, it’s easy to be nostalgic for the sports shows or columns we miss, but maybe it’s something deeper? Maybe, just maybe, they were also good? I remember listening to football games on the radio with my dad as a six year old, for example, and few things beyond Star Wars were better. The wonder of any sporting narrative when spoken — without imagery — is that there are no distractions. I’d lay there in the late afternoon, thinking about the ball being thrown, or kicked, or ricocheting between players, and wonder how the game might end. Who would make the one play that would send the broadcaster’s voice to a crescendo?The excitement of those radio calls came from being fixed in a moment, and I am not ashamed to say that I miss these occasions. Sadly, they are just so much harder to come by given today’s never-ending jumble of rapid reactions.Which, forgive my ambling, brings me back to free throws and the sudden distaste for them. Yes, we all want the “best product,” but must we All sports have their slower moments; be it the change of pitcher in baseball; the huddle or timeout in football; or setting up a free kick in soccer. And there are many, many sports fans who still appreciate such BREAKS IN THE ACTION(!) because they’re connected to in-game strategy or a prompted by a tactical move, and therefore, are not only necessary, but intriguing.Sure, interludes and considered moments might not arouse somebody desperate to share a zany GIF with their followers, but they help to form the plot lines of the best stories in sports, both the epic sagas So keep doing what you do, James Harden. I will be watching every single free throw attempt, and I won’t be the only one.Journalist. Coffee drinker. Football fan.A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

When you read an article about the games you love, and unexpectedly find that the pieces happens to touch upon politics, economics, a societal ill, or It’s okay, your impulse is understandable. I’ve written more than once that flipping on the game, settling into that well-worn Barcalounger, and turning off the ol’ cerebral cortex is not only a reasonable response to our world’s unending cavalcade of horrors, but also a downright healthy diversion.But if that’s the case, then “Sports” needs to keep up its end of the bargain. I’d be happy to never again cross these sacrosanct streams if only the powers-that-be will stop putting their chocolate-y politics in the peanut butter of my sports.F’rinstance, on Monday afternoon, I tuned in to watch something called “Hoops for Troops,” an ESPN broadcast of a practice/scrimmage/barely organized goof-around session for USA Basketball held at the United States Military Academy at West Point. I watched it because I have a junkie-needing-a-fix-level compulsion about the NBA, but in case you’re not similarly afflicted, don’t worry. It wasn’t sports as much as it was a two-hour advertorial for the armed forces.Now, for the most part, Hoops for Troops, self-described on its official website as “a year-round initiative led by the NBA, its teams and players in collaboration with the Department of Defense, USO and other military and veteran serving organizations to honor active and retired service men and women and their families,” is doing good work. The organization offers free tickets to military families and other special events, Jay Bilas, Fran Fraschilla and others were on the sidelines to call the action, but aside from standard-brand chatter about the roster’s composition for the upcoming FIBA Basketball World Cup, there wasn’t a whole lot to say about Anthony Davis half ass-ing a layup drill or a scrimmage that had all the excitement and intensity of a A resting Derrick Rose sat down with the ESPN team and kvelled about how much he loved the discipline that was being taught at the academy, before practically turning to the camera and telling all the kids at home, “And that’s going to help you later in life.”It was made patently clear that bringing the team to West Point would have a direct, measurable impact on how they’ll do in the FIBA World Championships. This was, “an experience they’ll never forget,” and a trip to the cemetery was part and parcel of coming to “understand what service is all about,” as if choosing to suit up for USA Basketball team was in some way equivalent to putting one’s life on the line.Later, Bilas and Fraschilla highlighted the military’s ability to adapt to difficult circumstances within combat situations, and used it as the perfect jumping-off point for a conversation/debate about how the team will cope with the loss of Kevin Durant An actual General then dropped by the booth to chat, and barked, “West Point is all about winning and putting together winning teams.” Before I could point out that America actually has “lost” a couple of times over the last 40-odd years, (and I’m paraphrasing here because I was starting to sputter and seethe and missed his exact quote) he mused, “Maybe that will spill on to Team USA.”Finally, if the theme wasn’t already crystal clear, Coach K (an Academy alum) grabbed the mic to address the cadets in attendance, declaring, “We feel the best team in the world is the United States military, and we want to be the best basketball team.”No. No, no, by all that is holy and good, no.The United States military is not a None of this even speaks to all the things that To be clear, I’m no pie-in-the-sky, utopian doof prone to handing out flowers and flyers on the meridian while babbling about giving peace a chance. It’s a dangerous planet, and as such, America needs the armed forces. Period. But it’s for that exact reason that I think the military should never, ever be the object of If we were to blindly pick up what the broadcast of that hoops exhibition was putting down, it’s a tacit agreement that right now, the military and military’s actions are so intertwined with civilian life that it’s totally acceptable that they be utilized to up the brand value of freaking If we don’t question their presence, or our patriotism is oppugned when we do, well, that’s a very frightening, simplistic, fan-like guide to how one should behave as an American. A There’s a quote that’s been attributed to everyone from Mao Zedong to Toni Morrison, which says Sometimes it’s as obvious as the U.S. hoops team grabbing pompoms and cheerleading for the military. And sometimes it requires that you notice the hypocrisy of Roger Goodell There are those who would like it very much if you were So until the day comes in which we can build a Maginot Line between Sportsball and the rest of existence (Spoiler alert: we can’t), feel free to have USA Basketball perform for the troops, but don’t televise it.Don’t have the Blue Angels do flyovers before football games.Don’t unfurl 100-yard versions of Ol’ Glory across the field before the Super Bowl.Don’t bedeck the Mets, the Padres or the So, yeah, if you still want me to “stick to sports,” that’s totally fine. I really wish I could. But Sports has to stick to Sports first. And they really, really should.I write words for The Daily Beast, Knickerblogger, ESPN , VICE, The Classical, Deadspin. Salon, and more. Buy this book!...A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)



The following are things I’ve written about New York Knicks (soon-to-be former, hopefully) point guard Raymond Felton. In the interest of not typing until the sun explodes, I’ve culled these from the 2013-’14 season only:A more self-respecting reporter might react to these flagrant abuses of authorial power with a simple, pointed question: “Don’t you feel Nope.The explosion of blogs—team-centric or otherwise—has completely transformed the world of sports reporting. For the better, I’d wager, ledger considered in full.The profession’s upper echelon, however, remains mysteriously beholden to that most mendacious of monoliths: Here’s the thing: You can have an opinion or a perspective—a view from somewhere—and still get your facts straight. Or the facts that can be universally deemed important, anyway. Let’s take statistics, for example. There’s just no earthly reason to write that Raymond Felton shot 2-of-19 with 11 turnovers if it didn’t actually happen. (Which it probably did, so…bad example.)How a writer synthesizes those facts to include a personal perspective shouldn’t be seen as taking away from the power and poignancy of a piece. If anything, the resulting honesty—hostile though the tone and tenor may be—reminds the reader that these writers are a lot like them: sports Stalinists who demand perfection and punish even the smallest athletic missteps with unrelenting prosaic damnation.The suggestion here isn’t that reporter subjectivity is somehow being subjugated. The most obvious example — the seemingly never ending success of Bill Simmons — proves there’s a market for the unabashedly biased. That we have given forums to a billion different biased voices is a boon, not a burden, to the case for reporter plurality. And that fantastic growth of sports websites—many of which celebrate those biases—the case can be made that objectivity for the sake of itself is finally, mercifully in retreat.Consider your typical NBA arena. Every seat, from first-row folding chair to that guy with an entire section to himself huffing glue in the rafters, has its own view. No two people can possibly see the game from the same perspective. Everyone has (gasp) their own take on how things played out.This logic applies just as easily to reporting. The arena angles, in this case, are our own preconceived biases that inform the way we think and feel about a given game or specific team.Is it? Some writers and reporters will heed this dictum, often to brilliant, bombastic ends. After all, the degree of difficulty in rendering what is rigid to appear engaging —of letting facts and quotes submerge whatever poetry lies below—is inherently higher. The limited lexicon demands as much.The question is why we limit it to begin with. Objectivity makes some semblance of sense in the political sphere, where the societal stakes are so much higher. To the extent that the goal is to give the public the most information possible (heavy, heavy emphasis on “the goal”), bringing personal biases into the discourse only works on the farthest fringes. Although at it’s Hunter-Thompson-best, it can do more to elicit change and engagement than any upper-fold fodder from the Sports, at their core, are pastimes, our respite from the rancid rancor of politics and the monotony of daily life. It’s an outlet—social, emotional and psychological—through which we exercise our innate competitiveness in an arena that isn’t nearly as rancorous as Washington or as frustratingly mundane as our living rooms are. Watching the Knicks, for me, is a chance to frolic in a fucked-up alternate universe where nothing makes sense. Where nothing is Why, then, do sports media’s most widely-consumed outlets—your ESPNs, your daily papers—continue to act as if objectivity is what the masses want? It’s easy to see Simmons as a sign of sports subjectivity’s rise. In reality, his role on Style and substance aside, “The Sports Guy” has helped cleave open a long-neglected niche. Still, there remains a very real stigma against cavalier reporting, particularly on the beat. Which, it must be noted, remains a steady source of inspired prose in its own right. I would name names, but even mini manifestos on subjectivity aren’t beyond 5,000 word limits.The propagation of biased content—compelling, well-conceived biased content—is doubtless a wonderful thing. But how many of the most nationally renowned writers regularly take the kind of risks that have become commonplace within the greater sports blogosphere? They can’t. They’d literally be fired. And that’s as much a reflection of print media’s existential struggles as it is the sad product of policy.Even beat reporters have their biases, of course. They just come through in different ways—in their sources and subjects, in whom they choose to focus on and why. But it’s the commitment to objective reporting, rather than the impossible accomplishment thereof, that remains the last, staunchest obstacle to a full-blown sportswriting revolution.That it’s a buyer’s market for perspectival sports journalism isn’t a secret: With a seemingly limitless supply of content and only so many eyes and minds to consume it—and only so many advertising dollars going to an exclusive few outlets—the craft remains, for most, an unpaid passion.But, as with any rising sea change swelling against generational breakers, it’s only a matter of time before the wave takes the shore. Because it’s only reasonable to believe the fans that crave creativity from their favorite athletes will eventually demand some semblance of same from those who cover them…Intelligent Sports Storytelling. Shared. | A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

The pecking order of each of the Big Three sports apparel companies is abundantly clear: Nike is the gold standard, Under Armour is the millennial brand and adidas is a running joke.Just how bad are things for the Three Stripes?Even more alarming than the new pecking order is how adidas has become the butt of jokes:The number of missteps adidas has taken over the last two decades to fall behind an apparel company that didn’t even exist in 1995 are long and numerous.They range from botching a shoe deal with Kobe Bryant back in 1996, to acquiring the sinking ship known as Reebok, to having its splashiest recent endorsement deals in basketball and football backfire. See, e.g., Derrick Rose, Dwight Howard, Jeremy Lin and Robert Griffin III, just to name a few.In fact, the biggest name to endorse adidas right now isn’t even an athlete, it’s Kanye West.Meanwhile, Nike has a who’s who of sports clientele (Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy, LeBron James, Kevin Durant, Aaron Rodgers, Mike Trout, etc.) and Under Armour is partnered with the two biggest rising stars in their respective sports, Stephen Curry and Jordan Spieth — not to mention the super couple of Tom Brady and Gisele Bündchen.Just pouring salt in the wound, Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank called adidas “our dumbest competitor” this past February — and he wasn’t wrong.While there are certainly plenty of hurdles facing the company and adidas America president Mark King if it wants to reverse course in the U.S. market, adidas must start with repairing its tattered image.When I was growing up in the 1990s, I viewed adidas as Europe’s version of Nike. While it wasn’t marketed much in the United States, I associated it with luxury because it was classic and foreign. Sadly, much of the company’s demise is attributable to the heinous uniforms its been responsible for in the last several years.Yes, That includes sleeved NBA jerseys and college basketball abominations like the infamous “Zubaz” and “Made in March” uniforms.Making good-looking sports uniforms isn’t rocket science. All it takes is basic fashion rules and common sense. Unfortunately, adidas no longer has either.As a result, you will find an unlimited amount of college sports fans on the Internet who hate that the Three Stripes outfits their favorite schools and can’t wait until their apparel contracts expire.Notre Dame left adidas for Under Armour last year, which was cause for celebration in South Bend. And adidas’ other biggest college client, Michigan, is thinking about leaving the company after a revolt by its fanbase.It’s hard to blame either group. Adidas took arguably the two best uniforms in college football and mucked them up with eye-searing alternates that must have had Knute Rockne and Bo Schembechler rolling over in their graves:Adding to the embarrassment, Even the base uniforms for adidas schools are fugly, as the football uniforms have a ridiculous shredded pattern on the shoulders and the basketball uniforms keep getting tinkered with — usually for the worse.Adidas needs to stick with a classic and clean look that honor the uniforms of yesteryear at its partner schools — especially with nostalgia so popular these days — and put just a couple modern touches to bring the uniforms forward to the year 2015.For instance, the University of Miami just started its partnership with adidas. It’s an easy, two-step process:2. Update the fabric, fit and font for the present day, like designer Jake Nevill did with these:And voila! You have a masterpiece.Adidas should do the same with fellow new client Arizona State, ditching Of course, adidas won’t do that. It wants to make a big news splash with its new clients, which means coming up with ridiculous new concepts.It appears the company already has plans on changing Miami’s facemask to I don’t want to hear that classic uniforms don’t appeal to 18-year-old kids. High school recruits will love wearing After all, Alabama never changes its uniforms, and the Crimson Tide isn’t exactly hurting on the recruiting trail.The same logic goes for alternate uniforms. Alternates are fine, as long as they are done the right way. But there’s no reason for adidas to keep pushing the brink of sanity, like with these “Uncaged” Louisville football uniforms unveiled last week that look like they need an exorcism.There are plenty of great alternate uniforms to be had with throwbacks. And if adidas is intent on designing new alternate uniforms, make it sleek and keep it simple. The best example of that is Baylor’s gold chrome helmet designed by Nike that has proven to be wildly popular.Adidas’ recent decline starts with a very basic rule of fashion: Image is everything.And right now, adidas’ image is a Zubaz-ified mess.LostLettermen.com Founder  Vayner Publishing ManagerA Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

A Sports Illustrated® publication. (By way of Medium.)

On my kids’ sports teams, we emphasize three rules:(3) Listen to the coaches.That has been the mantra since my oldest kid was in kindergarten. Now, Gabe is in third grade, and he and his elementary-school buddies have been on the same teams going on nearly a dozen seasons — they know the “three rules” by heart.And I am on my umpteenth team as a Sports Parent — I coach the basketball team. I enthusiastically assist the soccer and flag football coaches.Tomorrow, Gabe is participating in the Gabe is going to be on a kickoff panel with a few other kids — including Little League World Series hero Mo’Ne Davis — talking about the appeal of sports from the kids’ perspective.Both the Project Play data and the conversations with Gabe and his friends support the same conclusion:Fun is No. 1.Not winning. Not making the travel team. Not training from fancy tutors. Not the might-as-well-be-mythical scholarship in the distant future.Kids want all sorts of things out of sports, but having fun is their top priority. Unfortunately, it is typically parents and local sports organizations that undermine that simple goal.Last basketball season, I tried something: As our team warmed up, I took a portable speaker and put on layup-line music — just like they see at the local high school, college and NBA games. Nothing inappropriate — it was “Happy.” (This season, it’s “Centuries,” because they’re 9 and they still think it’s the greatest song ever.) The kids loved it. Their parents loved it. The opposing parents looked at us (OK: me) a little funny, but it sure looked like their kids enjoyed it, too.We set up a night with the entirely amicable local high school varsity team where our kids got to stand in the player introduction line, high-fiving the prep players, and even sit in the locker room before and after the game.When our local flag football league saved themselves some trouble this past fall by not putting numbers on the back of the league t-shirts like they had in previous years, the kids were demonstrably bummed out. Our coach put up the $20 to put iron-on numbers on the back; the kids were elated. (The same coach also taught the kids how to run the famous “Statue of Liberty” trick play, which they used successfully in a game and seemed to delight parents on the sidelines — both ours and the opponent’s — as much as the kids.)This isn’t “travel team” quasi-professionalism, with the expensive uniforms, overbearing intensity and exclusionary mission — this is trying to crack what a bunch of 8-year-olds think might be fun. As it turns out: Low- (or no-) cost ideas, modest creativity and inclusive gestures, in part borrowing from the pro theatrics that enthrall the kids.Whether you have kids or not, it is totally worth your time to Right at the top of the list, Challenge No. 1: “Youth sports is organized by adults.” And, as you might notice on your average youth soccer or baseball or basketball sidelines, adults are not necessarily all that great at the task.Project Play’s solution is simple: When you do ask them, the answer, resoundingly, is just as simple — yet so powerful: And if the kids have fun now, they are more likely to stick with sports throughout their youth, do better in school, have more self-confidence and stay active (and healthier) throughout adulthood.As it turns out, “have fun” is more than a guideline for the kids: It’s a handy “rule” that every parent — even (perhaps especially) the most enthusiastic and well-intentioned of us — might keep in mind as our own No. 1 priority for the kids.Founder, Quickish. Now: USA TODAY Sports. Ex-: Fans (AOL), Starwave, SI, Bolt (1.0), AC (Y!), Varsity Letters, Tim Teblog. Teach: Georgetown. Ed: Medill, HBS.

