I draw comics Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Salman Khan has received global acclaim for his videos on He understands the difficulty of changing large systems and so he hasnt written a manifesto. Rather, the book is a mixture of personal anecdotes, a history lesson, and some very detailed ideas for change that are breathtaking in their scope. Since those are not getting enough attention, I want to paraphrase a few below.Kids either understand a concept or they dont. It is a disservice to allow advancement when certain core concepts are not understood, because they usually build on one another. Kids do not advance unless they can demonstrate mastery (like answering 10 questions in a row correctly).Rather than trying to teach assembly-line style, provide the resources for kids to pursue knowledge at their own. This means allowing kids of mixed ages to coexist and help each other. Older kids learn responsibility, younger kids learn from the older ones and everyone acts more mature.Since knowledge is naturally connected and kids have different gifts, let them explore at their own pace and see how things connect when they are ready. Some may want to go deep into a technical subject, while others may pursue open-ended thinking and creativity.Allow students to watch lectures at home, or on their own time. Then they can bring their questions and homework into the classroom to work through problems with their peers and teachers.Since various separate classrooms have been combined in this model, teachers too can combine and help one another in a physical classroom and via the web around the world. This takes advantage of various strengths to address this multifaceted job. Further, they would act more like coaches helping them win (rather than a gatekeeper).A three month vacation every year robs students of momentum and causes unlearning. Instead, save vacations for when an individual needs one (like adults take). They cant miss class because they are working at their own pace. And the multi-age-no-grade thing would remove any stigma. Breaks can happen without shutting down the entire system.In addition to testing, add things that measure the individual in a qualitative way:Develop relationships with local establishments so that kids can experience how knowledge gets used in the real world and even taking on more challenging problems. If the students were actually developing valuable skills, paid internships might even address the growing problem of educational cost.Learning happens independent of a university’s ability to give a degree. If a student has received a great education, it shouldnt matter where it came from. The removal of name-brand credentialing would level the playing field and help address rising costs.What I love about these examples is how they combine wisdom and skill. Rather than treating them as mutually exclusive goals, he outlines how wisdom can be attained through skill. In his conclusion, he also addresses the question of Mr. Khan acknowledges the problems of a one-size-fits-all model, particularly globally. So, his proposals are mainly to help us realize that education can happen in a very different way.CEO of Learning Machine.A collection of awesome stories about education on Medium.com

You and I are both immersed in the challenges and opportunities of innovation in education. You’re working to evolve the ways our country is learning with the support of technology. Over here at IDEO, we’re working to design tools, experiences, and systems that engage and inspire the learners, teachers, leaders, and parents that are all part of the education ecosystem. We are both focused on innovation, but from very different angles.I’ve been thinking a lot about innovation in education over the years and have been intrigued about how much the conversation has changed lately. Did you notice how many proposed sessions for SxSWedu this year included the words “innovation” or “design thinking”? Yes, of course, springtime in Austin is the most likely venue for conversations about innovation in education… but it seems, to me, that innovation may have finally gone mainstream.Overall, there’s a lot more awareness out there that everything and each of us (including our systems) need to learn and grow and thoughtfully evolve with the times. The current way might not be the optimal way, and we’re at risk of continually creating the best dinosaur out there.What I love about the conversations happening at SXSWedu, though, is that many are teacher-led. It’s not the suits leading the conversations, it’s the teachers. They are sharing new pedagogical approaches alongside EdTech developers who are showcasing their products alongside folks from foundations who are emerging points of view about scale and impact.The innovation conversation feels born from the ground, with educators trying new approaches in their classrooms and schools and sharing them so that others can learn.So many questions are discussed around innovation in education — Are things changing too fast? Too slowly? Should the innovations come from the ground, or from the government? If it doesn’t scale quickly is it worth it? Will technology save us? Or is the answer in our teachers? Do we really need to redesign education? Or do we risk losing something we’ve already got figured out?I always joke that when people say “we need to redesign education,” they’re saying something like “let’s redesign Here’s a starter list for pulling apart the word innovation:When we talk about innovation, are we talking about new solutions that build upon what we’re currently doing, or radical leaps of practice? Seems we’re rarely that radical. Unless, of course, you’re We’re constantly going between these questions. What should we be teaching? How should we be teaching? They’re clearly interrelated, and yet not the same.We tend to assume that change in education is policy-defined and top-down — but some of the most exciting innovations seem to be coming from teachers and schools.Is the goal to get great new solutions out there, or get more people to create new solutions? I’m a little biased toward the latter, because the more people that are applying their creativity in education, the more innovations we will see, routinely, over time. And they’ll have the benefit of being locally defined. But clearly, both are needed.I know you’re working on many big initiatives, including the revamp of the National Education Technology Plan, and I’m wondering how you think about innovation. How do you define it? How do you see it happening across the country? What’s inspiring you these days?BrightManaging Director, Education Innovation in Education

We are both working to solve the problem of equity in education. I’ve spent my career in education, first as a teacher, and then as a lifelong advocate of improving learning opportunities for EVERYONE through technology.I am sure you see — as I do — pockets of excellence in education. You know, those places where kids are designing, making, composing, filming, animating, publishing, talking with each other. Students that are presented with complex challenges, like water availability and food security, and work to figure them out. I’m so happy when I see students connecting across cultural and national borders with video chats and building their learning portfolios. There are moments that make me wish I could stay a student!But there are also too many places where that is not happening. In those places, all too often, the teacher’s focus is on classroom management. Learning is mostly measured through tests. Students may occasionally use technology, like headphones, for simple grammar drills. No one seems to be having much fun.I have tried to understand how technology can best “power up” the opportunity for these students to actively learn. A few hundred years ago, the printing press and free public libraries caused literacy rates in Europe to soar by making books readily available to all.But to actually realize the full advantages of learning, we have to close the As a first step, educators, parents, and policymakers (that includes us) have to figure out how to enable access to personal technology and the Internet, both at school and at home. Second step: all learners and educators must gain sufficient digital literacy to participate fully and responsibly. Without knowing the whys and the hows, access can be meaningless. Third, students must ALL have ample opportunities to use the technology to solve, collaborate, research, design, create, and publish — so they can be lifelong learners.I’m guessing you will agree with this premise. If so, I am interested in your take on how we can best make this happen. Let’s be real about the bumps we need to be wary of along the way.BrightImproving the opportunity to learn.Innovation in Education

Being a student starts at age five. For 180 days a year, you sit in a room for six hours a day and memorize facts and skills. You have no input on which skills you’ll be memorizing, of course, except that most quickly decide the question, “will this be on the test?” is very worthy of memorization.This goes on for six or seven years, before you’re allowed some Repeat for another eight years. Some of your teachers will be better than the rest: they explain why some of these facts are important and exciting. Occasionally you get Eventually, you make it to college, where you spend another year or two taking required classes. Finally, by the time you’re twenty, you declare your major, and take a year or so of classes which are interesting to you.With all those math and humanities courses you took, you did find something which interests you, right? Oh, and your major better not be a humanity. You’ll end up as just another jobless Millennial. The journalists told you so.Perhaps you’re a very idealistic Millennial. You believe you can make a difference in the next generation; help them discover what they’re passionate about. When you graduate, you become a teacher.This is to the strong disapproval of your parents. “Teachers don’t make much.”Being a teacher is actually more difficult than it seemed. For one, most students don’t actually want to learn, it’s just a requirement to get into college. Given that condition, many choose to do as little work as necessary.So you start spending your nights grading homework and tests, and harassing students who are starting to fall behind.Oh, by the way, how are you doing? No, really, the government wants to know exactly how you’re doing. You’re directly shaping the futures of these students, so you better be good. The government, in the 2001 So, from the public perspective, your entire job boils down to how well the kids you teach do on a standardized test.But, as it turns out, there are very few Standardized Testing lobbyists, if any. Education reform isn’t possible until we change our priorities.Society is responsible, because we know each of our own children is better than the rest, and we need to make sure the school system is doing a good job of educating them. So we measure it. To measure it, we assume everyone needs the same skills.Society is responsible, because we don’t value learning, we value money and careers. Good careers: maybe a scientist, or a CEO. No one wants their child to be a waiter, or a hairdresser, even though we rely on these people hundreds of times each day.Whether you blame the students, the teachers, or the government, you are encouraging the system, because you are a member of society.Program director at StudentRND. 

Over the past 24 months since we started developing Bibblio, my head has often hurt from the sheer volume of new knowledge I’ve accumulated about how we learn. I’ve read, seen and digested more than I can express in a pithy statement, but fortunately Joi Ito found an important and short maxim that’s a good place to start:The quote opens a fundamental and interesting discussion about the nature of learning, and what we can do to support it. Surely learning and formal education are not entirely the same thing? But what exactly is the difference?What I can say is that after these last two years, I have become increasingly convinced that there is a paradigm shift underway. One in which technology is acting as a catalyst for an explosion in the production and publication of free learning materials. There is a natural divide appearing — with different stops on the route to education and learning.Here it is visually represented:Most of us are very familiar with the left side of this graphic. We went to school, university, or some other formal education, and we are largely familiar with the rules of engagement. You listen to the teacher, stick it out, jump through the hoops and get your reward in the form of an accreditation. While many people flourish in this system, many others don’t. It remains the basis for most formal education around the world.The current paradox is that while the price of education is rising exponentially in most countries, the cost of learning is actually trending towards zero — with millions of great learning materials freely available online. As we move forward, the process of testing against a standardised curriculum will increasingly be challenged by a new collective opportunity to learn anything we want, as well as choosing the content, time, teacher and device we want to learn with.Here I am echoing the words of Brandon Busteed, Director of Education from Gallup. His However, when you ask people about open and free learning, the answers you get are often very vague. Most of us intuitively feel that we learn best outside of the formal system — through work and throughout life. But how can we understand this informal learning process? And how does it work compared to a more formal educational structure? Let’s go back to the education vs learning paradigm for a definition of how they are different.“Education is largely considered formal, a notion that shapes resources from the top down. Formalised education flows start with an institution that offers accreditation and then provides resources and groupings that meet that expressed goal. On the other hand learning starts with individuals and communities. The desire to learn, a natural desire, is often constructed as informal learning and comes from individuals or groups with interests, who may organise and access resources in pursuit of that interest.” (1)For the vast majority of us, learning “stops” when we wave goodbye to our last educational institution. So — we then have at least 50-60 years of our lives left… not learning anything? Various commentators suggest that as much as 70% of learning might occur outside of formal educational settings, yet informal learning rarely gets mentioned and appreciated (2  3).I am not in favour of spreading doom and gloom about formal education. It serves a valuable role in society, and many talented and intelligent people do passionate work every day inside the formal educational system with great outcomes — not just knowledge, but behavioural and social functions are developed which simply couldn’t be replaced by a screen.However, the aim of this article is to argue that we can do a better job of connecting an ecosystem of content creators, educators and learners for informal learning purposes of many kinds. It is increasingly clear that the formal education system and the publishing industry surrounding it are doing a relatively poor job of recycling and distributing all the public knowledge that is being created — and we’re reaching a tipping point.It’s not simply a case of making knowledge available, but also making it accessible.Why am I so convinced change is near? Well, for one thing, this man:Do you know him?His name is Michael Stevens and his show, People like Michael represent a new generation of creators and educators who make learning voluntary, free and social. It is on-demand and highly engaging for the same reason. Now, compare that to the average university lecture. Vsauce has more subscribers than all of the major US universities combined. The point is not that all of those seven million shouldn’t educate themselves in formal settings in the future, but that social learning increasingly have the power to assist a vast audience of curious individuals.So, if we accept that learning can happen outside of educational establishments, do we know exactly what happens when we learn? Interestingly, the most progressive concepts in the history of education were actually introduced over 150 years ago. Educational pragmatism was conceived by Charles Sanders Peirce, and the idea was further developed by his student John Dewey in to a progressive view on education often called constructivism. This favours, at heart, a view on learning that is based on experience. With my own background in communication, I would add that learning is essentially what the students hear and understand — not what the teacher says.Later, Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget and Italian physician Maria Montessori pioneered how these ideas could be formalised and applied to childhood development. Montessori’s greatest insight was perhaps that everyone learns differently, at his or her own pace. We’re natural learners, she said, born with an insatiable curiosity. Other contemporary European approaches, spearheaded by such figures as Reggio Emilia and Rudolf Steiner, agree with the constructivist idea that experience is central to achieving a positive learning outcome. They value curiosity at least equal to curriculum, and they respect the emergent nature of learning.While the Montessori principles are primarily espoused and used in childhood development, it is increasingly apparent that people of all ages can learn when their curiosity and intrinsic motivations to explore the world are sufficiently ignited.Perhaps no single phenomenon reflects the positive potential of human nature as much as intrinsic motivation; the inherent tendency to seek out novelty and challenges, to extend and exercise one’s capacities, to explore and to learn. Developmentalists acknowledge that from the time of birth, children, in their healthiest states, are active, inquisitive, curious and playful, even in the absence of specific rewards (4).Professors Jeff Dyer of Brigham Young University and Hal Gregersen of globe-spanning business school INSEAD surveyed over 3,000 executives and interviewed 500 people who had either started innovative companies or invented significant new products (7). They documented a series of very interesting results, showing a vast statistical imbalance in Montessori children that go on to become ‘outliers’ as adults. The phenomenon has even been named the “And In only 15 years, the internet has delivered not just one but several landmark achievements in the aggregation and sharing of knowledge. Early digital platforms like Wikipedia and Google have already transformed how we search for information. However, it can reasonably be argued that learning is fundamentally different from search. It is only now, as the internet enters its truly semantic age, with millions of videos, slides, podcasts and advanced social tools, that we face a truly Cambrian moment in the possibilities of learning technology to set learners free.While the initial wave of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) have succeeded in scaling the reach of formal school and university curricula to a broader audience, and should be applauded for doing so, they largely stay true to the traditional form and structure. You have to go to places such as YouTube, Slideshare or Soundcloud to find significant innovation. It is outside the established institutions that the majority of new content, formats and ideas are being developed. Khan Academy and TED are obvious examples but the truth is that there are now thousands of great learning channels scattered across the web.And it’s here that we took the inspiration for Bibblio. Put simply, the world needs a library which makes all these great things easier to find and easier to benefit from. Availability is one thing — accessibility quite another.It’s also helped us to refine our Howard Gardner, with his concept of “5 minds for the future” argues forcefully that we can and should cultivate many forms of wisdom and literacy, some which cannot easily be measured. The learning design of Bibblio is heavily inspired by Gardner. The platform aims to develop discipline, synthesis, creativity, respect and ethics among its users using a peer-to-peer learning model. This way Bibblio will become a free, vibrant and curiosity driven supplement to formal education.Canning and Callan reported on three higher-education institutions in the UK that have used a self-determined approach to learning (8). Their research shows that it supports an individual’s control of learning, professional development, critical thinking and reflection. Reflective practice helped students to gain more control over their learning, comprehend it and apply it to practical situations. Many other studies provide similar results (9).We have only just embarked on what is, without a doubt, more a marathon than a sprint, but Bibblio wants to develop these ideas and help set learning free. In many ways, our learning design is aligned to other digital age theories in that it places an importance on ‘learning to learn’ and sharing, rather than the hoarding of knowledge.Ultimately, the point is strikingly simple. While the cost of education is exploding, learners are increasingly going to be able to develop and grow at their own pace.Why don’t you (1) Research in Learning Technology, Vol 20, 2012.(2) Dobbs, K. (2000) Simple Moments of Learning. (3) Cross, J. (2006) Informal Learning: Rediscovering the natural pathways that inspire innovation and performance.(4) Harter, S. (1978). Effectance motivation reconsidered. Towards a developmental model.(5) Csikszentmihalyi, M.  Rathunde, K. (1993). The measurement of flow in everyday life: Towards a theory of emergent motivation. (6) Ryan, R. M. (1995). Psychological needs and the facilitation of integrative processes. (7) Dyer, J. H., Gregersen, H. B.,  Christensen, C.M. (2009). The Innovator’s DNA. (8) Canning, N.  Callan, S. (2010). Heutagogy: Spirals of reflection to empower learners in higher education. (9) Blaschke, L. M (2012). Heutagogy and Lifelong Learning: A Review of Heutagogical Practice and Self-Determined Learning. Posts about education, self-determined learning, heutagogy and edtechAuthentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Remember when a On this question, we usually hear from teachers, parents, administrators, tech companies, and investors clamoring to fund them. Now, it’s time for teens to talk. Let me tell you what my friends and I really think about technology in the classroom. Some of it’s great, but for those EdTech enthusiasts out there, well, hold on because the truth may hurt.For as much educational value as tablets can contribute, theyWise to tablets’ distraction potential, some teachers have banned them completely. But that seems ridiculous, considering that sometimes students were required to buy tablets, therefore wasting a couple hundred bucks by not using them. Teachers need to find a happy medium, like having tablet-free lessons followed by a tablet-integrated activity. Also, teachers should consider using laptops instead. They feel more serious, and the addition of a keyboard facilitates actual work and note taking. Laptops may lack the sleek design appeal of their tablet counterparts, but they are far more functional as teaching tools, and a better long-term investment in EdTech.So yes, tablets can be used to create a new age of interconnected classrooms of the future — but they are just as likely to turn into procrastination stations. You have been warned.Like a good little pupil, my first move after school everyday is to boot up my teachers’ websites on an oh-so-eager hunt for my homework assignments. If I’m lucky, a teacher proficient in the dark arts of web design will gift me with a clean, easy-to-use web page. Conversely, an — ahem — older faculty member might construct a lime-green monstrosity that truly should be ashamed to call itself a website.I pity the poor English teacher out there who definitely didn’t sign up for web design when applying for the job, but times are changing. Nowadays, students often have more knowledge than teachers when it comes to tech. So if teachers are struggling even to post homework, or are leaving students to navigate a site that looks like MySpace circa 1999, it makes them look, to put it simply, outdated.To remedy the inconsistency, my suggestion is to teach the teachers. Introducing, drum roll please, teacher website building bootcamp! All joking aside, schools should introduce technical support for struggling teachers so that students won’t have to suffer through any more clumsy attempts at websites.The system seems great for tech-savvy teachers, but it does put a few stressful requirements on students. In order to use it effectively in a classroom, everyone needs a tablet or laptop, which gets expensive and introduces distractions.Right now, only one of my teachers has a Google Classroom page, so it doesn’t have a big impact on my schooling. However, if I look into my tech-predicting crystal ball, I can see Google Classroom playing a larger role in education — as long as there is uniform adoption throughout a school.Homework. My adult friends say it still shows up in nightmares decades after graduation. Truly, there is nothing more upsetting than not understanding a subject and not being able to find help quickly. Well, fret no more. Khan Academy is a web-based program that provides explanations, tools, and support on a vast array of topics. Khan Academy started as a Youtube channel but has now expanded into an online community and an easy-to-use app. With an arsenal of thousands of free videos that teach lessons ranging from trigonometry to Prehistoric art in Europe and West Asia, Khan Academy is like an at-home personal tutor.For the sake of complete disclosure, Khan Academy has saved my life. In my most desperate of hours, after spending an agonizing night trying to figure out what in the world a derivative is, I turned to Khan. To my relief, the website had video after video of explanations and examples. It was like the angry storm clouds of calculus broke and I could see the light. Actually, I just went to sleep, but still!However, the drawback of relying too heavily on good ol’ Khan is that its videos simply cannot provide students with everything we need to know. I see Khan Academy as an amazing Hi, my name is Soraya and I am a social media-holic. I, like many of my teenage peers, spend copious amounts of time compulsively checking social media.The chime of a tweet, the flash of a notification, and the beep of a Facebook message all seem to capture youth attention, which is why there has been a push to integrate social media into education. A leader in the social EdTech charge is Twitter, the home of vibrant conversations confined to 140 characters or less. Teachers use Twitter as a platform to track major events with hashtags, pose discussion questions, or update students with daily assignments.Teachers: Before you use social media for education, consider the risks. Twitter conversations are public and completely subject to trolling, when people purposefully target, provoke, and offend online. Trolling can cause a perfectly educational discussion to devolve into a heated argument that a teacher cannot control. Cyberbullying is still alive and well. Imagine a student trying to add an important, poignant comment to a class Twitter feed and not only getting no retweets or likes, but also being ridiculed for sharing an opinion. Teachers and students will be at the mercy of the Wild West of Twitter. The Internet can be swift and cruel. Twitter especially is not for the faint of heart.Despite the rather scary picture I just painted, Twitter holds immense But the way most teens use Twitter does not foster in-depth academic dialogue. People share trivial things like “Just ate breakfast #yum” or cat pics. The character constraints can make real conversations on Twitter harried and unfocused. So also consider blog settings like Tumblr.A touch capable projector screen… Yeah, I don’t see the big whoop for this one. It’s cheaper to hook an iPad up to a projector than to splurge on this thing. Clunky, expensive, and dare I say sometimes dumb, interactive white boards have not been the wave of the future as expected. The biggest selling point is how students can interact with the board. But the limited applications make these boards not worth their price tag, which can run $1,000 and up.Really though, I should be honest with you. The truth is I will never like Evernote or other note-taking apps because I am an old-timey pen and paper type gal. A tactile learner, if you will. So when my AP English teacher required that we use Evernote to download daily schedules and to share our in-class notes with her, I just wasn’t having it. People have been trying to capture the notebook experience with the addition of styluses and connectable keyboards, but for me, nothing will be the same as flipping open the real thing. Sorry, Evernote: it’s not you, it’s me.Remember when you used to have to carry around school supplies? Lol, how silly was that! Now, you can just log into Google Drive and have access to folders filled with Docs, Sheets, Slides, and so much more. Sure, it’s a total rip off of Microsoft Word, but who cares…it’s Google.I love the sharability of work on Drive. Or is that a negative? On the one hand, being able to share docs can create a collaborative experience in which students help each other and teachers can comment and make corrections. On the other hand, students will be students, and sharability can transform into peer sabotage and, sometimes, cheating. The idea of academic integrity and privacy only becomes more complex as classrooms ramp up their interconnectivity.TBH, while a few teens can be vindictive, I think the real reason to share a Doc is so you can chat with your friends. I mean, English class can get boooorrring.My favorite thing about Google drive (sarcasm alert) is doing online group projects. There is nothing better than harassing and cajoling partners into doing their share of the project. Even better is when one partner types over what you just wrote!Though EdTech seems like it’s here to stay, I think that technology in the classroom has a long way to go before being used effectively. The issues that plague EdTech are major — cheating, distraction, privacy concerns, inconsistency in implementation, inequality in access, and price.I truly believe that the most memorable parts of my education have come when a teacher has taken the time to sit down and talk me through an equation, or given an impassioned speech on how sodium and chlorine become salt. The next step for EdTech is to foster and enhance those memorable moments in school, get teens excited to learn, and make students feel invested in their education anew. While I still have qualms about where EdTech is today, I predict that with time, there will only be more technology saturation, more tech-literate kids, and more opportunities to use tech in the classroom.One day, I’ll become the crotchety old grandma who says, “Back in my day, we only had iPads, not hologram decks.” And some young whippersnapper will respond, “Well, let me tell you how teens really feel about holograms.”BrightInnovation in Education

Start-ups are one of the most exciting parts of today’s economy. Local leaders across the country are racing to build economies that foster entrepreneurship, experimentation and innovation. Yet in public education, we routinely struggle to lean into educators’ innovative instincts. What if we celebrated great schools the same way that we celebrate great start-ups? What if we thought of educators in the same way that we look up to leading innovators? To galvanize education leaders, the Department of Education is partnering with Medium to launch a series of conversations centered on innovation and education. We will hear from educators, thought leaders from education and technology, and many other innovators who are affecting change across our country.They may not be household names like Elon Musk or Sheryl Sandberg, but throughout the country, public education innovators are inspiring fellow educators and improving education for America’s students. There are innovators like Scott Given at First, we would all readily know the names of incredible educators leading dramatic gains in students’ achievement. Cities and communities would compete to attract and retain great educators. And we would talk about the schools where these educators work like we talk about sports teams. We would say to each other, “Did you see that students at Second, there would be fierce competition to invest plentiful resources in educators and schools. Funders, cities, and companies would provide facilities, training, and resources for educators to attempt new and innovative methods. When these new methods demonstrate success, public and private funders alike would elbow their way to the front of the pack to make large investments to scale across schools and communities. And if a new model did not produce better outcomes, we would push ourselves to understand why and apply these lessons to a new iteration. Our own experience indicates that educators are hungry for financial support that enables innovation — and that they’re willing to take an honest look in the mirror to understand their impact: In 2010, the Department launched the Investing in Innovation (i3) grant program; over the last five grant cycles, we received over 4,000 applications for just 143 grants. Each of these organizations commits to rigorously measuring its results so that it can learn from the experience — and share its learnings with others. While the demand is clear, there are currently insufficient Federal and private-sector resources that support education innovation.Finally, we would dedicate ourselves to creating and sustaining large-scale innovation that fundamentally and dramatically improves educational outcomes for our most disadvantaged students. In the entrepreneurial ecosystem, when the status quo is failing, someone creates a new model. Sharing economy startups, for example, are helping small businesses and individuals access office space, lodging, and transportation; and crowdfunding start-ups are helping raise money for entrepreneurs who may not access conventional sources of funds. Too often in education, we rely on models that are failing students, especially our most vulnerable. We need to change this by investing in models that are proven to work for our most disadvantaged students. One example is Although we are proud and excited to launch a discussion on innovation in education through our partnership with Medium, these success stories can’t just live online. We need your voice and your action on the ground. There are pockets — such as Tennessee’s iZone schools and U.S. Secretary of Education

The good news is that we’re seeing progress on many fronts. From almost no venture capital seven years ago, we saw What I think is missing is a disciplined approach toMost investors, whether they’re profit-seeking entities or foundations interested in social impact, act in one of two ways: (1) They assume someone else is doing the work to create new ideas; or (2) They assume new ideas just come from the ether, and that philanthropy can’t actually impact the number, quality, or diversity of ideas. Their approach is mostly passive.My question is this: How can we make as many smart $10, $100, $1,000 and $10,000 bets on promising ideas and promising entrepreneurs as we can? How can investors help push the idea forward when it is tiny, when the leader isn’t sure yet if it will work? What do people need at this stage?Here’s an example of the path walked by an entrepreneur named Eric Nelson, who we coached at 4.0 Schools. Procurement laws have made it difficult for school districts to work in an iterative way with EdTech partners (say, to test new cloud software with biology teachers). And most school districts don’t have physical places to try new approaches and tools. Many state charter school laws outlawed innovation by requiring proof-of-concept. Innovation is also difficult for districts because it creates temporary inequities inside classrooms — some students may be part of an experiment, and others not — making it really important for districts to communicate goals, equity commitments, planned phases.When they launched the personalized math program School of One (now There are some bright spots, though. Houston A+, an education nonprofit, launched a small tuition-free private school to pilot This is where Let’s take a look at how food entrepreneurs work today. Back in the old days, it took $1 million to open a new restaurant. These days, my friends in New Orleans who open restaurants follow a very different path. It starts with a pop-up — renting out for maybe $1,000 an existing restaurant to test your menu in one evening. For many, the next step is to buy a food truck for about $10,000, to test your food with more customers in more neighborhoods. In some cities, a food incubator takes the process one step further; aspiring entrepreneurs can set up shop for a month or two in a facility acknowledged to be a place where innovation happens, and where failure is more accepted.This approach to new restaurant development — I believe — encourages more people to try new ideas while actually lowering the cost and the pain of failure, for both the entrepreneur and eater.How might we apply this concept to schooling? That’s exactly what my organization seeks to answer.Our testing of new ideas happens in stages — a $10 test of an idea impacts only a handful of people; a $100 test impacts the same people, but for a few hours and not minutes; a $1,000 test of an idea impacts a willing group of volunteers for a week or two. In New Orleans and in New York, where 4.0 has dedicated innovation labs, we’ve built a network of teachers, students, and family members who have volunteered to test new ideas and education at an early stage. This gives us an opportunity to make sure ideas are ready for prime time. I believe this kind of space in fact changes the nature of experimentation in education.Some microschools like AltSchool (the San Francisco school that’s raised $100 million from Mark Zuckerberg, among other investments) are I’d argue that schools like The key to mitigating risk is small experiments and short cycle trials. Digital tools and continuous feedback make it easy to support iterative development. This is the secret sauce behind new models like AltSchool and The future of school, and the future of school reform, means experimenting with, and not on, each other.BrightInnovation in Education

Inside one sprawling warehouse in West Oakland, California is a cacophony of heat and sound. There is the roar of furnaces, the clanging of metal on metal, the crackle of sparks. Jimi Hendrix plays in a distant corner. Leather-clad workers roam around the space, wielding fire, metal, and glass.But these Hendrix fans are not grizzled motor heads at work. They’re kids. Highly confident, capable kids.What once was an old paper tube factory is now the Crucible, the largest nonprofit industrial arts education facility in the United States. Founded by artist and teacher Michael Sturtz in 1999 — with a grant of just $1,750 — the goal was to reinvent arts education by democratizing the skills and materials traditionally reserved for experienced craftsmen. Since then, the Crucible has grown rapidly, with 90 faculty members now serving over 8,000 students every year.Ismael Plasencia, who works with the youth program, is the unofficial tour guide for the facility. He wears a flat brimmed Golden State Warriors hat and sports a thick beard. Everyone calls him Iz. “In simplest terms,” he said, “a crucible is a container, like this one here, that holds hot liquid metal.” He held up a small, well-used ceramic urn as he spoke.Students at the Crucible learn functional skills like welding, blacksmithing, blowing glass, turning wood, and working leather. But there may also be some outsize benefits to the organization’s “maker”-inspired curriculum.“Holding a torch, being able to light that torch, and cut metal,” said Carla Hall, who directs youth programs, “there is incredible growth that happens. In our space, on the making path, [students] learn life skills; confidence, creative problem solving, tactile learning.”“There’s great joy in trying something that you have absolutely no idea if it will work,” said Sudhu Tewari, who leads Crucible’s bike building programs, among its most popular offerings. “Hands-on learning really reaches some people in ways that textbook learning can’t, ever.” Tewari is an industrial artist and a champion of what he calls “Let’s say your brakes don’t work,” he said. “What do you do? You look at something similar and you make your thing look like that. Just experiment. Try something. If it makes it worse, try something else. If it makes it better, keep doing more of that until your thing is awesome.”Gabriel is one of many students at the Crucible who ascribes to Tewari’s philosophy of making awesome things. He is energetic, a fast talker, and gives the impression of almost being too smart for his own good. He’s 10, and despite being adorable (or more likely because of it), he hates being called cute.“Making stuff, like masks, robots, and cars,” is Gabriel’s favorite thing about the Crucible. “But then testing stuff. I like the testing stuff better.”“You have to suck for awhile,” said Tewari. “When you learn to do something, you have to be terrible at it. That’s just how it is. It’s a great equalizer.” Traditional classrooms, he and other staff members said, rarely allow students the freedom to fail hard and often.17-year-old Kobe has braces and a touch of ‘fro. He recently became a Fuego Intern — the Crucible equivalent of a teaching assistant.“Being here is a unique opportunity,” he said. “I have to value my time here, to actually make the most out of every moment. Unlike school, you know, which feels more like a time drain. You have to be there working towards credit, classes, prerequisites, and what not.”In contrast, at the Crucible, Kobe drives his own progress. He has dabbled in most of the organization’s offerings, but TIG (tungsten inert gas) welding is his favorite. “It is really precise, and really clean,” Kobe said. “And those are things that I value. It’s pretty hard, so there’s always room to improve.”Over the last couple weeks, he has been hard at work on his crowning achievement to date. He describes it as “kind of a mecha, Godzilla thing” (to the uninitiated, it looks like a metal robot lizard).“I thought of an idea for the body,” he said, with the passion of a wild inventor. “I did the legs, something it can stand on. It just came part by part. These things that I had for the fingers, they were just the byproduct of cutting up the pieces for another part. I noticed they looked like claws, so I just went with it.”“They come up with the wildest, craziest ideas out of this random stuff we give them,” said Tewari. “They’re not bound the same way that adults are bound by the inhibitions of ‘Oh I don’t know how this is going to work,’ or ‘I don’t know how to do that.’”To Kobe, this process has become second nature. “The first idea always leaves a lot of things open,” he said. “And then I just go from there.”Despite the overt differences between building robot lizards and studying Shakespearean literature, there may be links between the workshop and the classroom. “There are really specific ties with science, around chemistry and physics in particular,” said Hall. “Math, as well. And art. Obviously art.”Elaina is 16 and has a few streaks of purple hair. She’s currently arc welding a cat, using a process similar to Kobe’s — lots of scrap metal and an inventive openness.For her, the maker education she receives at the Crucible isn’t just about creative freedom. “I want to be a biomedical engineer,” she said with a glowing certainty. “I want to solve scientific problems, so I can make vaccines, prosthetic legs, incubators for newborns. Who wouldn’t want to help so many people at once?”Her work at the Crucible, she explained, is a vital piece of her education. “There’s so much science in what we’re doing here,” she said. “You do arc welding, but you also do oxyacetylene torch cutting. So I learn about oxyacetylene in school, I learn the science behind it in chemistry, but then I come here and I actually Even social studies teachers, like Bobby Glasser, have found value in the Crucible’s approach. When his sixth grade students at Orinda Intermediate School learn about ancient civilizations, he takes them to the workshop to have, in his words, “the ultimate field trip.”“All the ancient civilizations had the technology the Crucible works with,” he said. “Instead of just reading about this stuff, we went in there, and the connections were immediate. Pictures and words do not do these things justice.”Glasser acknowledged that it’s nearly impossible to replicate the Crucible experience in the traditional classroom — and that for many teachers, such a field trip would be logistically impossible. In those cases, there may be alternatives. “There are students doing amazing stuff with video and technology,” he said. “And that’s hugely important. I love what students can do with a computer and a 3D printer.”In a warehouse full of hot metal, sharp tools, and heavy machinery, safety and respect for the space and one another are paramount.But it’s not just about physical safety and respect for the dangers of the work. It’s about emotional safety. “You have all these students from different places, different classes, races, ethnicities, and ages,” Hall said, “but they’re all making art, they have that common thread of process. They’re working in diverse, collaborative environments; the team building, the conflict resolution is so important.”Students are also taught to respect the materials they are given. In fashioning art and machines out of discarded scrap, they learn how to make what they want out of what they’ve got. And in a world that is ever-changing, in which resources will become ever scarcer, this is the most essential lesson that anyone can learn. This is what it is to be an innovator.writer, reader, skier, lover of dogs  reggaeInnovation in Education

My father worked for the post office for 30 years. Growing up, I often dreamed of following in his footsteps.One day when I was around 8 years old, he took me along on his route. It just so happened to be one of the coldest days of the year. We trudged around in the snow for hours, delivering mail and fighting off the cold for a long, exhausting day. The experience not only gave me a new appreciation for how hard he worked, it also helped me begin to realize that perhaps working as a postman may not be my dream career after all.I didn’t grasp it at the time, but in his own sly way, my father had made his point: I didn’t necessarily have to follow in his footsteps. He put himself through school with the help of the GI Bill after serving in the military, and then took on a career with the postal service. My path was wide open to decide whether I wanted to work as a postman or something else entirely. Thanks to the quality education my parents had ensured for me, I would have choices that hadn’t been available to them.This lesson has stuck with me since childhood. I believe there is more truth today than ever before in the idea that education equals opportunity. In today’s society, education is the great equalizer, a way to offer everyone — regardless of skin color, ZIP code, or financial status — the opportunity to succeed.For far too many students today, however, high-quality education is inaccessible. Success for students depends on where they were born, where they live, and how much money their families make.In other words, too many futures are still left up to the lottery of birth.At the Bill  Melinda Gates Foundation, we focus on trying to solve this. The foundation is well known for its overseas work, but through the U.S.-focused initiative I lead, we work to make opportunity and prosperity possible for more Americans. Our ambition is to ensure that all students receive the education they need to succeed in college and beyond, working toward solutions that are powerful for everyone but truly transformational for low-income and traditionally underserved communities of color.This goal is certainly a work in progress. That said, we have both learned a lot and seen some promising results in recent years. Although on a national scale, achievement on the SAT, ACT, and National Assessment of Educational Progress has been staying flat or declining for years, those national numbers conceal some important success stories.In Kentucky, ACT scores have been going up in both low-income and high-income schools since 2011. The graduation rate has risen from 80 percent to 86 percent since 2010, and is well above the national average of 81 percent.In Denver, the percentage of students who scored 21 or higher on the ACT has gone up by half in the past five years, from 16 percent to 24 percent.And in the public schools of Washington, D.C., students taking the 4th-grade and 8th-grade NAEP in math outgained their peers in every single state between 2007 and 2013.Today, we are at a turning point; we have the opportunity to bridge the gap of inequality faced by too many young people. There are many signs of progress and reasons to be optimistic. We know more than ever before about what it takes to ensure that students are on track for success, teachers are supported and engaged, and policymakers have the evidence they need to lead us in the right direction.At the Gates Foundation, we believe now is the time to share the lessons we have learned from years of working to create a successful education system, and to spark more conversations with all of our partners — teachers, parents, students, policymakers, advocates — who are deeply invested in this same goal.To start this conversation, here are One of the defining challenges for our schools today is the gap that exists between what it takes to graduate from high school and what it takes to be ready for college or the workforce. This gap is why we developed the We should care enough about our students to hold them to high expectations early in their schooling, so as to ensure that they’re learning the essential skills and knowledge to succeed in college and beyond.Setting consistently high expectations isn’t only good for students. It also promotes collaboration among teachers, encouraging them to share best practices and identify ways to innovate.We believe the Common Core State Standards are a key component of improving outcomes for students and for supporting effective teaching. And they’re working:Teachers tell us that Common Core standards are helping their students to think deeper and understand what they are being taught. A math teacher in New York said “The kids are more successful because instead of looking for a clue word as we did in the past, they are working to understand what is happening in the problem.” Another elementary school math teacher said her students “are becoming problem solvers because they understand the concepts.”But implementing Common Core has been a rocky road. In some states, teachers haven’t had adequate time to incorporate the standards into the curriculum successfully. In others, the Common Core has turned into a controversial political issue. But in still others, implementation is going smoothly and having a positive impact on both students and teachers.We believe now is the time to strengthen implementation of the Common Core so that teachers and students have the support they need to translate higher expectations into better learning outcomes.You may have seen a recent I love this quote from Bill Gates, which captures the problem exactly: “Doctors don’t sit alone in their offices trying to design new tools for healing. Athletes don’t stay late at the stadium trying to design themselves a lighter shoe. They’re supported by huge industries that are designing new tools to give them an edge.”For a long time, we have asked our nation’s four million teachers to ensure that our schoolchildren — a full 25 percent of our population and 100 percent of our future — learn the skills they need to succeed in college, life, and beyond. Yet we have given them no clear standards, no meaningful feedback, and precious little support on how, exactly, to do that.One of the biggest projects that we’ve undertaken over the last few years is the Our study proved that we need more than just test scores to measure teacher success. While Educators should benefit from the same focus, investment, and innovation as other professionals do. Excellent teachers are the number one key to student success, and we must support their growth and performance with an equal measure of urgency.We all learn differently. What if we honor our differences by giving teachers and students the specific tools they need to succeed?Personalized learning allows us to do exactly that. Think about personal trainers at a gym — they tailor custom programs to unique needs, goals, and skill levels of every client.The same concepts are being applied in education. A single dad studying for his degree needs the flexibility to learn on his own schedule. A high school student may learn more about speed, velocity, and momentum from a trip to the skate park than a traditional physics lesson.The concept of personalized learning is still evolving, as new research, models, tools, and approaches emerge. According to the interim results from a multiyear And as two of my colleagues We see value in personalized learning not only in K-12, but also in helping more students succeed in college. In September 2014, we selected Our hope is that the solutions developed from this challenge will exceed what is currently available in terms of quality, price, scalability, and adaptability and will improve the postsecondary success of more than one million low-income students by 2018.In many ways, our education system has remained stagnant for decades. We must build a new groundswell movement — with students and educators at its core — if we want to truly capitalize on the promising results we’re seeing, continue to drive positive change, and succeed in our mission.As a foundation, reflecting on 15 years of lessons learned is not just a time for thinking and talking — it’s a time for action. We’ve seen progress and know what is required for continued success, but we cannot do it alone. It’s time to put more of what we know works into the hands of more students and teachers, in more places.There is so much more work to do, and more lessons to learn along the way. I look forward to working with our partners in the coming years to discover solutions to our most pressing education problems and identify new opportunities for growth.Positive change for students, teachers, and families across the United States is our goal. Working together, with the brilliant, compassionate, committed people whom I know wake up every day driven by this mission, I’m optimistic that we can get there.President, U.S. Program, Bill  Melinda Gates Foundation.Thoughtful conversations on building a better world.

“How will we educate children in the future?”This is a question that I’ve been asked for years. However, there’s often an underlying tone to it. My work has historically related to international education, and many people are too polite to directly ask, “How about educating our kids here in the United States? Why go out seeking to educate children in remote parts of the developing world — Laos, Guatemala, Ghana — when we have so many issues here at home?”Oftentimes, these same people will pose their own answer: If we can better educate our kids here first, then maybe the developing world can eventually learn from us and progress.As a quick note, I use the word “developing” to refer to the fact that most of these communities face longstanding poverty, lack access to modern infrastructure and have no formalized education systems. Of course, the developing world is enormous and includes communities with diverse political, social, legal and economic situations.But I’ve found some important similarities in the rural communities that my organization, Pencils of Promise, works in within Ghana, Guatemala and Laos. And I’ve found that they have a lot to teach us. Here are four things I think the US education system can learn from its counterparts abroad:When you think about a traditional classroom in the US, you’re told over and over as a child to pay attention, stop fidgeting, sit at your desk. And yet in many parts of the developing world, children don’t have proper desks; kids are standing up, they’re sitting down, they’re moving around a classroom. In between classes, they get up, go outside, play by the river.When you look at the data, what you’ll see is that a We often think of reading as purely the act of holding a piece of paper, scanning eyes from one side to the other. But the reality is that literacy is actually the conversion of a symbol into a sound. Our brains have the ability to process (both separately and simultaneously) visual and auditory stimulation.But what about a third element?What about spatial recognition or movement of body? What we’re now piloting in our PoP schools, and seeing incredible results around, is the use of sign language to supplement traditional methods of teaching all students literacy skills in early childhood development. If you’ve ever seen a kid in the classroom, the hardest thing is getting him or her excited. But you watch a child learning sign language, learning through motion and moving beyond what’s happening in their brain, that’s a student who is truly learning and engaged through education.When you think about a teacher in a classroom, we often have an image of a wise educator standing in front of a room of young children. But in the developing world, particularly in places without enough trained teachers, you may see children unsupervised by adults. And in that case, what happens next: the eight-year-old teaches the six-year-old.In a similar vein, Pencils of Promise has partnered with Sugata Mitra though Microsoft’s Work Wonders Project to bring Mitra’s Put simply, SOLE is student-centric learning, where the teacher poses a larger question (like, why is the blue whale the biggest in the ocean?) and students “self-organize” and use technology to find the answer. We saw children in rural Ghana, within 30 minutes of introducing the lesson, successfully researching a brand new topic and producing a PowerPoint to share with their classmates.The main idea behind SOLE is that students don’t necessarily always need a formal teacher; we can use technology to spark their imagination and creativity, and they will inherently work together to learn and educate themselves.I believe there’s an inherent capability in developing countries to leapfrog older methods of innovation in order to adopt new ones. For example, there’s often little broadband technology in developing countries; mobile brings all necessary capabilities.In the US education system, we’re slowly shifting to a reality where tablets and other electronic devices are acceptable tools in a classroom. But technology itself is not the solution; it’s the adoption and integration of solutions that technology enables that produces the breakthrough.Some teachers in the US stubbornly refuse to allow new innovations, saying that learning happens best with a pen and paper — even for students who will now have more or less been born with an iPhone in hand. I’ve found much less skepticism in the developing world.At the same time, innovation doesn’t always correlate with technology. What we’ve learned from the developing world is that it’s okay to be scrappy. Materials are key, but they don’t make or break the teacher. I’ve seen educators excel at engaging their students with nothing more than dirt and a stick — a form of innovative thinking and teaching in its own right. Classrooms don’t need to be overrun with posters on the wall or toys in bins. Even empty rooms can be purposeful and guide children to the right sorts of learning.Since founding PoP in 2008, my team and I have continued to learn from the communities and countries in which we work. We’re an organization led by local teams; our four countries directors in Ghana, Guatemala and Laos are all from the country that they direct, which is something we believe to be essential to long term sustainability.Ultimately, though, education isn’t just about BrightFounder of Innovation in Education

I don’t regret going to university. I don’t regret earning my Bachelor’s degree. But if I could do my Masters over again, I wouldnt waste the money.Fresh out of high school, going to Uni was a life-changing event. I walked in the doors as a shy, awkward social failure, and came out a confident and proud young woman. I met amazing people and learned a great deal about life, friendship, networking and drinking. If you live in a country where a Bachelor’s degree is affordable, just do it.My Masters, on the other hand, cost me a bunch of money and taught me nothing at all. The thing is, if you have one degree, don’t bother paying for another. Or if you have held any sort of office job for a year, save your money for more important things. My Masters, bless its little cotton socks, is ostensibly in Food Security. That’s what it says right there on the label. I did a lot of readings, wrote a few essays and there I was. Master (or Mistress) in Food Security. Elated as I was to have graduated, I also felt rather depressed. I’d been so busy trying to fit a study schedule around a full-time job and a full-time social life that I’d forgotten to learn. I was still passionate about the topic, though, and I was determined to keep learning. Which is right about when MOOCs hit the world. And me. In a big way.(*MOOC = massive open online course)I enrolled in “Since then, Ive gone on to learn about global health, water biology, epidemiology, mapping, community journalism and even accounting. And Im not done by a long way. I just enrolled in some maths and engineering courses. No university in the world can offer me the rich and varied Masters that Im currently making for myself.And it’s not just MOOCs. There are so many resources available out there, from YouTube to Slideshare, webinars and podcasts, as well as good old fashioned institutions like libraries and pubs.It’s 2015, and it is entirely possible to build your own personally-tailored Masters in Whatever the Hell You Want (MWHYW).I started off by saying that if you want to go to Uni, go right ahead and do it. It’ll probably be the best experience of your life. But if your motivation is to learn a new skill or deepen your understanding of a new field, there are better ways. If you already have an idea of how tertiary education is structured, you can just dive right in to the mad world of online learning. If this is you, never fear. There are a number of courses which are specifically for people who think that they’re not ready to learn. And they’re free! If you’re considering studying and you’re a bit nervous, check out some of the foundation courses that are available.If you have these skills, I reckon you can learn just about anything.Find a MOOC and do it.That’s it.You want to do a DIY MBA? Go to Coursera, look at the options under Business  Management or Economics  Finance.Find something that looks interesting.And do it.You have nothing to lose.Ditto Environmental Science, Global Health, Computer Science, Chemistry, Law  Policy or whatever else floats your intellectual boat.And then when you know a thing or two more than you did before, go to the pub and talk to your mates about it.The biggest advantage of online learning is that there is no anxiety. A MOOC is not going anywhere. I watch the videos on my computer at breakfast, do the readings on my phone at lunch. Or not. If I fall behind, I can’t send the Prof an email asking for more time. She’s not there. She doesnt care. If I fall too far behind, it doesnt matter. I can keep auditing the course. I can do it again later in the year. And there is no financial penalty. This freedom actually makes me feel But if you are committed to actually completing a course, you have to find the time each week to do it. There’s no getting around it. A MOOC can only ever offer a basic introduction to a topic and not a complete understanding. I think that’s true of most university courses. But if you know where to look, and if you actually want to learn something new, the resources are out there. Doing an introductory course in financial accounting may make you want to learn more about double entry bookkeeping. A webinar about designing posters may get you excited about fonts. At the end of the day, That’s not to say that there arent plenty of courses that are worth your dollars. The Wharton School has a Business Foundations course that will cost you $90 per unit and give you a solid basis for a DIY MBA. No it won’t tell you everything you need to know, but it’ll give you a good start. It might even blow your mind a bit (when I did the Marketing course, I was completely blown away. Ive been working for 15 years and really had no idea how a business runs). And $380 for a certification from the University of Pennsylvania is not a bad investment.I’m lucky — I got to go to university and study and learn a bunch of stuff. And now I’m sitting here in my home office saying — oh, you don’t need to go to university. Nice for some, right?But really, if you want to get a little bit ahead in this crazy world, and if you think investing thousands of dollars into a degree will help you, just pause a moment. See what else is out there. See how you can do it differently. Especially if you don’t have those thousands of dollars. Even if youve never been to uni, even if youve never finished high school, it doesnt mean you can’t learn exciting things that can make you a more informed, interesting and educated person.Go out there and learn something new. Hell, learn Australian writer at large | living and loving all over the placeSharing our ideas and experiences

But in the case of education, reality is way behind the dream.I want to feel the way Adrienne did. I want to feel like what kids are getting is even better than the dream, not less exciting. At the end of 2013, I threw out fMaybe looking back at what did and didn’t happen can help us understand where we go from here.Most “No excuses” schools are public charter schools that accept no excuses for getting every kid into college. Why aren’t we asking successful schools like these to do more aggressive research on what’s next? If we’re going to think about what the future of school might look like, I’d love to see more of these schools testing new ideas. Unfortunately, that’s not happening as much as it could.Most public school leaders —both in charters and traditional districts — remain unconvinced that foundations or political leaders will reward bold attempts to test new school designs.And the balance between “scaling what works” and testing more creative and responsive school designs is still too heavily weighted towards the former. The greatest pressure to play it safe is coming from foundations. It’s one reason why our schools spend It’s really hard to test a new school design, especially for a public school. You’re dealing with real kids, real parents, and real public dollars. Many people think the best way to get new school ideas out there is by starting charter schools. I’ve been spending lots of my time over the past 20 years on this.Chartering takes a lot of time and money. Charter school approval takes two years from idea to opening day, at least. It requires that you build a big board, and that you start with more kids than the 12–30 students you need to test a new design most effectively. You’ll need around a half million dollars to pull it off.Chartering also relies on a decision maker we have no control over — the state or local authorizer. These entities are rarely willing to take risks, even appropriately sized ones on new school models. They’re often focused on traditional profiles of leadership and are unwilling to let someone with a less traditional background start a new school.But what about a parent? Or a scientist? Or an entrepreneur? Why can’t they have a shot at trying to provide a better way to teach kids?At 4.0, we’ve seen remarkable leaders with less traditional backgrounds prove they can teach, and we’re committed to finding ways to give more people a shot at trying. We’re more interested in building small scale pilots of new schools than starting schools serving more than 50 kids in year one.In focusing on smaller experiments, we reduce the costs of failure and speed the feedback process so we can get smarter about what works and what doesn’t. And we get students and families more involved in the process.We spend more than any other large, industrialized nation on education. Our 100 biggest public school districts only deliver 51 That’s one reason it is difficult to get into this topic without catching heat from hard-working teachers: Many hear “cost-cutting” and think of districts slashing and burning everything in classrooms — We’ve got to get pretty bold about rethinking the existing model of school. Is it too wasteful. It has endured new demand after new demand after new demand, with no appropriate re-engineering to compensate for the new tasks we’ve assigned it over the last century. It was designed for to educate only a subset of our population to a basic level of literacy in a less global economy, not to equip every one of our students to find their identity and compete in a rapidly changing international landscape.The changes we need have nothing to do with switching from two-ply to one-ply or no-ply toilet paper; they must come from bold educators willing to create genuine alternatives to how we’ve done school for generations. Very few people are rethinking the wasteful, slow-to-respond model of education in the US.I’ve been working on a draft scorecard for tracking what a more efficient school model might look like. It awards a school up to 8 points for specific design elements. Half of the points are focused on cutting out waste and making the school more focused on students:I think we’ve got much more value to bring to kids for every dollar we’ll spend. Having a better idea of what we want to spend that dollar building is one way to start.The reason I put this out there is that I value the mindset software developers bring to challenges. We’ve had McKinsey and other big-ticket consultants wandering the halls of our school districts for decades. What would happen if we had a bunch of no-BS, “tell me what problem you’re trying to solve here” developers instead? I think we’d learn quickly where we can get some money back.Today, a few schools are rethinking the entire education Entrepreneurs like AltSchool’s Max Ventilla and NOLA Micro Schools’ Kim Gibson are putting software developers in their schools. I think this is a great way to think about building lean, no-middle-management school designs. Here are some excerpts from Kim’s latest I see many parallels between the communities being built by sharing/When AirBnb challenged the idea that hotels were the only option for lodging, it created an opportunity to build a business without the same hard to optimize fixed costs we have in education. On average, I’ve been trying to meet homeschooling parents this year. They display all the traits of traditionally disruptive actors, and I want to understand how they make decisions.Another member of 4.0’s 10th Launch cohort, Ty Salvant, is a veteran homeschooler who’s created I’d still like to see more examples of pods of parents leaving schools, especially when they recruit a teacher to come with them, because learning more about what drives people to take this leap, and what would give more people the courage to try it for themselves, will teach us much about how the future of school can be more about student learning than managing big groups of adults.Sharing platform operators like Airbnb have to be great at creating community between people who can help each other out. For AirBnB it’s a community of people who need a place to stay and people who have space. For Uber its people with wheels and time and people who need to get somewhere.The reason these sharing economy startups are so interesting to the people that use them — and to people who want to invest in them — is that they’ve dared to rethink an entire industry by thinking about sharing resources instead of spending big money upfront on hyper-specialized resources. In fact, what many of these sharing platforms see as their job is to create community — between those willing to share and those who need help.A sharing community focused on getting people who need help what they need — that sounds like the future of school to me.BrightHelping people start schools, edu startups  ecosystems at Innovation in Education

I always appreciate your insight into issues of education and innovation — and am particularly impressed that you were able to work in some post-it notes (even in an email)!Figuring out what we mean by “innovation” is key to making sense out of this word that is buzzing around with increasing frequency. I wish I could see the thought-bubble that appears whenever people talk about innovation in education. I could almost guarantee that there would be a very different picture in each one. That’s not a bad thing — but it does mean that taking a few minutes to make sure we are clear about what we mean will keep us from just talking past each other.The elements in your “post-it notes” could be used to label approaches as being either innovative or not. However, I think we would quickly find that every one of your elements is in fact innovative in different ways.Innovation happens from the ground up To test this out, I plotted 3 different innovations: flipped classrooms (i.e., when students do “homework” in the classroom and watch lectures at home), the Common Core, and Khan Academy. Flipped classrooms turns out to be an incremental, how-focused, ground-up innovation with medium impact. The Common Core is radical, what-focused, top-down, and has large impact. And Khan Academy is radical, how-focused, ground-up, and has a large impact.If we could plot all the educational innovations that showed up in everyone’s respective thought-bubbles, we would start to see some trends. For example, we would likely see few radical innovations at a large scale. This is particularly unfortunate since radical innovation is what we need the most. So why is that?I think it boils down to two issues. First, education has a culture of being very comfortable with the status quo, even if it is dysfunctional. And radical innovations can be uncomfortable.At some point we have to decide to stop tweaking the existing model and move to a model that will provide exponential benefits. In education, it’s more comfortable to keep sharpening existing practice than trying to leave it behind for approaches that have the potential to be transformative.The second issue is that it is too difficult to bring innovations to scale in education. We are shamefully slow at recognizing and diffusing new approaches that make an impact. Other industries have found ways to mobilize much more quickly around the adoption of innovation than we have. This may be due to the fact that we don’t have easy channels through which to share innovations between and among the 100,000 K-12 and 7,000 higher education schools in this country. The Department of Education will soon be launching an “Example Engine” — a place for educators, parents, and researchers to see some of the radical innovations taking place in schools. We hope that will begin to accelerate the ability to take innovations to scale, but clearly more will need to be done.So what should we be doing to increase radical innovations at scale in education? And how do we measure whether an innovation is actually making a difference? It’s possible to have an innovation that is widely adopted, but doesn’t actually transform learning. How do we move farther faster? I hope you have some answers!BrightThe future is already here, its just not very evenly distributed. -W.GibsonInnovation in Education

Everywhere I read, the internet is inundated with claims that American public education is falling behind. But everybody knows that.It’s been nearly a decade since Ken Robinson spoke those words, and it doesn’t feel like we’ve grown any closer to grasping the future. Regardless of how many times you’ve watched a TED talk pop up on education reform, or read a depressing It’s because we don’t know how to effectively voice our thoughts.In my twelve years in the American school system, I’ve gone to schools in Colorado, Indiana, and now Ohio. As I draw ever closer to achieving the mediocrity of a High School diploma, I look back and I wonder what I’ve been doing. The number of worksheets that I’ve turned in probably accounts for a major chunk of deforestation in The Amazon.But it’s been years since these reform talks started, and here we are.None of what I’m saying is new. But I hope that for those of you reading, you may glean something out of this — whether that’s in the form of a confirmation that you were right, or in a new perspective on what it’s like in our schools. These are a few of my thoughts.The world is And the internet is BIG data. This new mindset on how students go about learning threatens an age-old paradigm: the teacher as the provider of knowledge. If this new way of thinking were to be followed, I cannot tell you the number of times that a teacher attempts to use a Smartboard only to be held up by a UI issue that half of the class knows how to fix. Quit paying for teachers to get technology education when the most technologically literate generation is 10 feet in front of them. Let the students teach the teachers. There’s this misconception that when it comes to technology, students are irresponsible and prone to losing focus. This can partially be blamed on administrative policies that ineffectively address the issue of technology usage in the classroom. Students are entirely capable of utilizing technology in a responsible way. In an By embracing mobile devices and implementing them as a part of their curriculum, teachers could better connect with students. It comes down to nomenclature; instead of referring to phones as I’m going to draw a parallel between something a rock star said and our schools. Describing the CIA’s analysis of how to create lasting peace in northern Nigeria, Now, this may be a stretch, but the cultural disconnect that Nigerian Muslims would feel from Western-founded schools in Nigeria is similar to what students feel in the American classroom. The culture that students are a part of, as defined by their experiences on Twitter, Instagram, Tumblr, Reddit, and Facebook (to name a few) is almost entirely absent from the classroom. Like Bono said about the Nigerian Muslims, students feel like they have no stake in their education. The essay is quickly taking on a new form: the post. This evolution of the written word is flexible, interactive, and effective. It allows for stronger reader comprehension and retention, and a closer relationship between reader and writer.Solomon’s description of the effects of user interaction with an app sounds similar to the goals of an essay, doesn’t it? Because it is. The kind of reader-writer interaction that takes place in a post is almost impossible to replicate in printed media. English teachers should be teaching HTML, not MLA.I have had more teachers that I’ve loved than teachers that I haven’t. Teachers are some of the most inspiring people that I’ve met, and their ability to engage students with the restraints they have is astonishing.But they are so, so tired.I don’t know how teachers manage to raise a family, maintain personal relationships, and do their jobs with the 24 hours a day that they have. They are vastly underpaid. It is despicable that our society undervalues the people that we entrust with the education of our children. Teachers fight against misguided parents, state-mandated testing, curriculum requirements, archaic administration models, and a lack of resources.And I love them for it.I think the way I do because of the teachers that have been a part of my life, and the same goes for everyone on this site. Regardless of the state of our schools, there are teachers out there who are I get frustrated as often as any other student with my teachers. But I can honestly say that everything I’ve said in this piece would be entirely impossible without teachers being there to implement and promote a shift like this. So what’s holding them back?Indubitably extricated.How to Turn Learning Into Opportunity

Designers create tailored experiences to solve problems for a particular segment of users. Without a tailored experience, that segment is left with tools designed for the masses. And that means only a fraction of their problems get solved — often in largely superficial ways.It’s like this: you’ve cut a piece of pie, and now you need to get it on your plate. You At Traditionally, The problems we solve are challenging but critical. Since designers are focusing more and more on creating these kinds of tailored experiences, we thought we’d share a few things we’ve learned along the way.We have 3 vastly different types of users who interact with our product in distinct ways.The 2 most similar user types: Even with these noble goals, most students tend to overlook passive communication. For instance, how do you keep track of email when you have texts, Instagram notifications, and Snapchat messages to deal with?Parents feel overwhelmed by the sheer Then there are Given these distinct user needs, teachers initiate the most communication and need the biggest breadth of control in the product. That’s why we focus most of our research efforts on teachers. By solving problems for the central user, you’re Complex user controls are an easy trap, especially in sectors where safety is important. Clunky controls usually lead to too much complexity and can actually diminish the power of your product.It’s a huge challenge, yes, but For example, Remind started with 1-way broadcast messaging because we wanted to ensure teachers had full control over how they communicated with students and families. But we realized these controls were hampering their goals of providing timely, more personalized support. Teachers needed 2-way communication options that still offered the ability to create boundaries between school and life at home.With that in mind, we eventually introduced Chat, a 2-way messaging feature that included an easy way to set boundaries: office hours. This change improved the product for all of our users, not just teachers.Our new projects begin with putting Every time we consider introducing a new feature, we conduct both exploratory and summative research. We do 5 to 8 user interviews a week along with Some of the biggest mistakes we’ve made in the past have been due to what we assumed teachers would want. When we didn’t do enough Be aware of any other How are your designs supposed to simplify your users life if they can’t even see your painstakingly crafted UI/UX work?If our designers don’t think about accessibility and a child has a vision impairment, it can be catastrophic to the child’s confidence. That confidence is key to how well students do in school, the quality of their educational experiences, and even their chances of graduating.We should be Combing through your product to increase accessibility can also be a great opportunity to take a critical look at your visual system. For us, it increases our system design consistency and gave us a running start to kick off a much-needed brand exploration.Back when we were thinking of ways that Chat might fit into the product, we knew it was going to be just as important as the 1-way messaging feature that had defined us until then. We needed to embrace what we really were: a messaging app. That required us to revamp all platforms to align with this idea.Unfortunately, both native mobile and our web app had different navigation structures and UI patterns, and neither really supported that idea of balance between the 2 main features we envisioned.For iOS and Android, we knew we needed to cut out the redundancies in our product. The biggest: the class message feed that the user initially landed on. The feed didn’t allow users to immediately recognize which classes had new messages, so it diluted the importance of the message itself. Also, we already had a “Classes” view that was displaying those same messages, just in a different way.We removed the message feed and rebuilt “Classes” to function more like a Additionally, our web dashboard was old — and it showed. It caused a ton of churn every time we had to design a new feature within its outdated structure. We rethought, redesigned, and rewrote it from the ground up in React. In the process, we gave the same priority to classes and Chat that you’ll see in our Revamping our mobile and web platforms lets us move so much faster and allows our users to have a very similar experience, no matter the platform.To help solve the needs of our users by introducing 2-way communication, we needed to take a big step back from how we viewed our product. Reimagining how our users consumed content, navigated the product, and behaved across all platforms helped us simplify our product and create an even more powerful tailored communication experience for education.Even if you aren’t introducing a large feature, don’t be afraid to take that step back and debate with yourself. Questions to ask:It’s hard to see the bigger issues if you’re looking at something from 6 inches away. Tools designed for the masses make an impact on the world, but designing tools tailored for specific segments focuses and amplifies that impact. And that’s the power of tailored experiences.Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

Socrates once said something that sounded like Back when I was in 4th grade, I used to think I still had a long way to go in school. At the time, education seemed more linear to me. I thought I’d grow up, go to school, learn, and all of sudden know everything I needed to once I was done with what I considered the standard school procedure. So, although I felt far away from the finish line, I understood the goal. Quickly, I realized my 4th grade self was wrong about that (and probably some other things too…). Education was not linear, but continuous. And looking back, I believe it’s not in classes that I learned most.The other night, I had this inner conversation with myself (happens quite a lot), and was thinking about the influence sports had in my life, especially in forming my personality, fueling my passions, and directing how I interact with others. Like any other athlete would probably admit, I would not be the same guy without all those games, trainings, practices, victories, crushing defeats, doubts, celebrations, coaches, and teammates.My short career in sports helped me learn valuable lessons and I feel grateful that I had the chance to go through many life-changing experiences over the years. To this day, I am convinced organized sports provide the best education avenue.I could tell you sports teached me discipline, hard work, and respect.Although it surely did, I also had the chance to go through more concrete lessons.Here are some of them.I always felt like the strong leaders in the different teams I played with were able to stay away from tensions with the help of sincere humility. I looked up to these guys, and they helped me realize that true self-confidence is being humble.You can’t expect anything in life if you don’t give. Perform, and you’ll get playing time. Be generous, and you’ll earn respect. Be dedicated, and people will salute your motivation. Those are all things I really understood because of sports.Through my many years in sports, I was able to comprehend how important it is to pursue something that you’re really passionate about. Not only it provides a daily dose of happiness to undertake something you love, but it’s also the greatest way to be a good at what you do.Sports made me fall in love with success. Whether it’s team accomplishments or individual honors, there is always something to go after in the world of sports. Every little achievement made me proud, and still today I believe my desire to succeed is directly linked to how inspired I felt after important team victories, clutch goals, or late-game comebacks.Above everything, I believe athletics provide individuals with the will to continuously improve in all aspects of their lives.That, I think, is the single most important concept somebody can learn.If you liked this article, please don’t hesitate to recommend below :) !Again, thanks to my friend CBDO at Athlex, golfer, loyal friend

And why we’ll abandon 200 years of rote education faster than you think.PayPal co-founder and venture capitalist Peter Thiel has famously said that the secret to building a successful business is believing something contrarian that no one else believes to be true (and being right).Ten months ago, I moved to Los Angeles to co-found an edtech startup called Once considered an alternative to the rote instructional model that dominates traditional school, Project Based Learning is gaining rapid adoption as teachers and But why, you might ask, would we abandon our emphasis on the rote, fact-based model of school that we’ve relied on for over 200 years?Here are 5 reasons the future is project-based:Traditional school was designed in the industrial revolution to train kids from the farm to become factory workers. Applying the principles of mass production and standardization to education trained students with the skills needed at that time. It also resulted in making public education available for more students than any other time in human history.Society has changed a great deal since the 19th Century, but our teaching methods have not. The rote memorization, worksheets, quizzes, and even rows of desks that exemplify most of our experiences of school came out of the Industrial Era. According to the OECD, only 75% of US students graduate high school, and the 63% of North Americans who graduate Thanks to the Internet we can search for nearly any fact we need in seconds. It’s no longer as important what you know as what you The traditional model of school was born from the needs of a bygone era of standardization and mass production. If we can learn anything from observing the innovative workspaces of the 21st Century, it’s that collaborating on projects is a pretty important part of work in the information age.Would you rather have your kids learn in a classroom structured like Google or a 19th Century factory?Imagine a world where playing baseball was deemed an important school subject that would be crucial to success in the real world after graduation. Taking a traditional fact-based approach, your teacher would give lectures and assign reading and homework on the rules, strategy of the game, history, etc. You would take quizzes and tests to assess how well you learned about playing baseball.When you graduated from school and were hired to play on the field, how good of a baseball player would you be? How effective would it be to study the sport without spending much time on the field? Would baseball seem fun or relevant to you?Human beings learn by doing. There are countless ways that learning facts are crucial to becoming an expert at everything from baseball to computer science. However, we need more Project Based Learning in schools to create fun and engaging connections between academic concepts and real world applications. Once students make these connections, A recent Oxford study With Project Based Learning, students work in teams to make projects that solve real world challenges. Through making a project, students master 21st Century skills like Critical Thinking, Creativity, Collaboration and Communication that are hard to teach through traditional lectures, worksheets, and tests.In the US, academic standards like the Common Core now require these 21st Century skills be taught in school for a reason. If today’s students can learn to identify problems and put together teams to solve them, we’ll help create a generation of innovative problem solvers capable of taking on this century’s greatest challenges (including challenges we haven’t imagined yet). What type of education could better equip students for whatever the future holds?I’ve heard some educators express concerns about technology attempting to eliminate teaching as a profession. If you consider teaching’s primary function the dispensing of information into students’ minds, you are on the path to irrelevance because the internet stores and organizes more facts better than the human mind.Instructional, fact-based learning will continue to be important for becoming an expert at anything. However, internet hosted video has made personal in-class instruction less important ever. Using fact-based videos from websites like YouTube and Kahn Academy make it easy for teachers to flip their classrooms by allowing students to digest instructional content at their own time and pace.This is a transformational opportunity for teachers because it frees up class time for us to spend less time instructing and more time offering personalized coaching and support to students as they practical projects in class. Empowered by technology, we as teachers can move from being ‘Sages on the Stage’ to ‘Coaches on the Court’.As a child of the 80s, my experience of technology in school was playing Oregon Trail and learning typing on Apple IIe’s in the computer lab. The only projects we could afford to make involved cardboard, markers, and the occasional dry ice volcano.Today, thanks to Moore’s Law, radically low cost computing makes it possible for students to make projects like movies, blogs, apps, presentations, podcasts, TED talks, robots, and 3D printed projects at close to zero cost. While it can help to have one laptop per child, I’ve seen students film and edit movies on $100 smart phones.Imagine what’s possible if we can empower more kids to combine technology with creative projects that solve real world challenges.Sound too good to be true? Check out a team of 5th graders in Fresno who While a growing number of teachers are turning to Project Based Learning to create fun and engaging learning experiences for their students, there are some notable limitations to scale.Developing and teaching traditional project-based curriculum is time intensive, and each teacher reinvents the wheel one classroom at a time. Also, many teachers need some professional development in order to get started. It’s unlikely to expect every teacher to create quality curriculum in every classroom given their time constraints. That’s why we created CrowdSchool.If every teacher could create a few great project-based lessons and share them, we can build a digital library of quality curriculum to deliver transformative project-based experiences in classrooms around the world.Co-Founder  CEO Education writing on all things related to PBL. Share your thoughts and ideas about PBL, and similar approaches to teaching and learning.

1)Teachers often teach how they were taught. I certainly did at first. Rows, lecture, and unflinching obedience were my models. My job was to keep kids quiet. My job was to talk and command control. Their job was to sit quietly and listen. This is what I thought education was. The cycle must be broken, but one of the most difficult steps in a teacher’s journey is overcoming the way they were taught.2)Traditionally, the best teachers were the ones who had the most control. A master teacher was one who could keep his students absolutely silent. R3) A passive education create passive people. In some sense, this is exactly the point. Most economic models need obedient workers ready to do the beck and call of the boss. If people do not believe they have the ability to think, to question, to differ, to change, they move through life unflinching. They will do exactly what others tell them to do. They will be totally reliant to those with power. Many adults are skeptical of massive pedagogical change in education. After all, very few people have control over their lives. How could it be possible for schools to empower 4) There are pedagogical approaches that empower rather than devalue. Allowing students time and autonomy to develop and share passions may sound radical, but really it is simply humane. Inviting students to identify problems and create solutions may be hard to fit into a schedule, but is surely more relevant than scripted textbooks. Constructing knowledge with students may lead to uncomfortable conversations, but also reinforces the value of their experience. While no pedagogical practice is a silver bullet, approaches like problem based learning, inquiry learning, and genius hour value the child as more than an object.5) What does a pedagogy of love and trust look like? What does it look like if we give students more freedom and control because we believe in their potential and promise? What if we planned for the best instead of expecting the worst? What if we cherished each individual, each culture, and truly believed that no one was better than the rest? What if we asked, 6)I was once on a call with an education organization that shall remain nameless. I asked them about providing creative learning opportunities and open-ended projects to students in low income, urban schools. The response was shocking. It angered me. The representative of the organization claimed that students in low income schools could not enjoy projects and opportunities of the sort. They were too far behind. They needed to catch up and could not focus time on ‘non-academic’ activities. What type of message does this reinforce? Only a certain class is qualified enough to create, engage, and question.7) Reward. Punish. Reward. Punish. Reward. Punish. How can we find new ways to motivate (control) students? There is a whole niche of education technology devoted to this behaviorist outlook on the world. How many schools reward students with tickets or prizes if they read a certain number of pages? How many schools hold elaborate ceremonies for those who perform the best on quizzes and tests? Schools are masters of manipulation. They create program after program to design students exactly how those in power want.8) School is competition. Inherent to the structure is the idea that some should fail. The system incentivizes destructive behavior. I should do whatever possible to get a leg up on my peers. I am disincentivized from supporting my classmates because they are my competitors. Parents get trapped into a mindset of awards and certificates without thinking of the implications. Every honors bumper sticker explicitly reinforces the notion that we don’t mind seeing some students held down as long as others are held up. Therefore, I must play the game of school. My parents encourage me to do so. I must do exactly what teachers tell me to do. I must blindly accept every word, idea, and thought. If schools ordain those who succeed and those who will fail, I must play their game. The rules of the game are set from above, yet it does not matter.BeardedTeacher — CA to SC | MS Teacher | PhD Student My student was late for class, claiming he was in the bathroom. I think he was stalling. Submissions always welcomed: 

School is hard. Design school is especially hard because so much of it exists within the abstract, the opinion. There are few, if any, absolutes as you go through design school. Much of design education is about learning some key techniques and then trying to apply them to your work in interesting ways. The following are some thoughts I have about how to go through a design program and get the most out of the experience, and beyond as a creative professional.Be aggressive in terms of your academics as well. There are two kinds of design professors at school: pushers and pullers. Some professors will push their knowledge on you. Others will make you pull what you need from them. Ask questions of both. Challenge their statements. Ask for precedents. Beyond the curriculum of the class, ask your favorite faculty who they know that needs an intern (because they do know people, I assure you). Ask faculty if they need any assistance with their own work. Find out which exhibits they enjoyed at local museums. It is very important that as a design student you do not sit back and let things happen to you. Be aggressive and create your own luck and opportunities.But, that does not mean just be a contrarian for its own sake. It does not mean ignore any and all guidelines. It means take the requirements into consideration and break past them with good reasons and solid ideas. Breaking the rules just to be different is foolish, breaking the rules because you have a much better idea is smart.There are plenty of designers out there who punch a clock in the morning, mindlessly flow some text into InDesign all day, and then leave at five and don’t think about design until the next morning. There are designers who casually ignore art and design while they look for the next reality show on TV. Then there are the other designers who make more design in their spare time. Their idea of a good time is to look at typography or experiment with painting or photography. These are designers who are fully immersed in working visually, designers who are actively engaged in becoming better at what they do every day.A designer needs to act like a cop. When you are a designer, you are a designer 24/7/365. Always noticing, always observing, always designing, even if only in your head. Carrying a camera with you at all times is a good habit — capture interesting details you come across, not just because you have an assignment due, but because it is in your nature as a visual artist to observe and process the world around you. Inspiration comes from everywhere and nowhere, all at the same time.One of the greatest things about being a designer is that you do not finish your design education when you leave design school. You continue learning for the rest of you life, and you should carry these ideas with you as you develop and mature into a creative professional.Design Professor at RIT. RISD  VCU alum. Co-host of A collection of awesome stories about education on Medium.com

I promise you this post is way more than its click-baiting, attention seeking title. I’m genuinely serious. We do not need education reform. This is why.Ask a regular citizen, student, or parent about education in the United States and you’ll hear a litany of grievances. People point to multiple areas of dissatisfaction, but I commonly hear the following concerns: Therefore it is easy to see why education reform (ed reform) is a handy cause célèbre. It seems everyone has an idea to reshape or reform the current system of education. That’s the problem. We need to question almost all parts of our current system, not gradually aim to reshape its disparate and dysfunctional pieces. Ed reform solutions and suggestions simply refine the current paradigms of education. Reform, often introduced by people never to step foot in a classroom, takes the current pieces of education, mixes them up, offers slight improvements, and then spits back out a minimally better looking form of the original. There is not true change, just an incremental tweak to the current form of school. The basis of the education system stays the same even as some new programs are introduced or attempted. Ed reform places a nice, shiny coat of paint to cover up the dings in a wall. What is really needed is a brand new wall.To get a better idea of how shiny new wrapping paper masquerades for reform let’s take a closer look at two reforms:We do not need more of the same. We cannot offer new window dressing to a system of schooling designed for a bygone era. The current form of education was envisioned to prepare students to be obedient, compliant workers. This 19th century model of schooling aimed to take kids from farmhouses to factory. Students needed to be submissive receptacles of information. Why not stop offering new forms (reform) of this systemic paradigm?We don’t need new forms of the current models and paradigms of education. We need a radically new approach. We need an approach that fits the world we live in. We need an approach that prepares students for an uncertain future. We need an approach that empowers young people to take ownership of their learning. We need an approach that honors students and teachers as creators and change makers. We need an approach that recognizes how people learn best.So we don’t need reform, we need to reimagine. We don’t need new flavors of nachos, we need a visionary main course. When we look at the skills and knowledge students need, we will see an emphasis on creativity, collaboration, and critical thinking. We will not see a need for new forms of memorization and regurgitation.Reimagining school may lead to some radical stuff. We may see schools fashioned to be Schools and classrooms of the future should not be a recycled or enhanced version of yesteryear. We don’t need ed reform, we need education to be reimagined.BeardedTeacher — CA to SC | MS Teacher | PhD Student Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

This is — I think (I hope) — the last keynote I will deliver this year. It’s the 11th that I’ve done. I try to prepare a new talk each time I present, in no small part because it keeps me interested and engaged, pushing my thinking and writing forward, That this is my last keynote of the year does not mean that I’m on vacation until 2016. If you’re familiar with my website Hack Education, you know that I spend the final month or so of each year reviewing everything that’s happened in the previous 12 months, writing an in-depth analysis of the predominant trends in education technology. I try in my work to balance this recent history with a deeper, longer view: what do we know about education technology today based on education technology this year, this decade, this century — what might that tell us about the shape of things to come.In my review of “the year in ed-tech,” I look to see where the money’s gone — this has been a record-setting year for venture capital investment in education technology, for what it’s worth (over $3.76 billion). I look to see what entrepreneurs and engineers are building and what educators and students are adopting and what politicians are demanding, sanctioning. I look for, I listen to the stories.Today I want to talk about three of these trends — “themes” is perhaps the more accurate word: I have the phrase “future of education” in the title to this talk, but I don’t want to imply that either austerity or automation or algorithms are pre-ordained. There is no inevitability to the future of education, to any of this — there is no inevitability to what school or technology will look like; there is no inevitability to our disinvestment in public education. These are deeply political issues — issues of labor, information, infrastructure, publicness, power. We can (we must) actively work to mold this future, to engage in public and political dialogue and not simply hand over the future to industry.Austerity looms over so much of what is happening right now in education. Schools are now tasked to “do more with less,” which is often code, if you will, for utilizing digital technologies to curb “inefficiencies” and to “scale” services. The application of the language and practices of scientific management to education isn’t new. Not remotely. Raymond Callahan wrote a book called As Seymour Papert — MIT professor and probably one of the most visionary people in education technology — wrote in his 1993 book For Papert, that consolidation involved technology, administration, and (capital-S) School. Under austerity, however, we must ask what happens to “School’s ways.” Do they increasingly become “businesses’ ways,” “markets’ ways”? What else might “the subversive features of the computer” serve to erode — and erode in ways (this is what concerns me) that are far from optimal for learning, for equity, for justice?I first included “I wondered then, “How might the field of artificial intelligence — ‘the science of creating intelligent machines’ — shape education?” Or rather, how does this particular discipline view “intelligence” and “learning” of machines and how might that be extrapolated to humans?The field of artificial intelligence relies in part on a notion of “machine learning” — that is, teaching computers to adapt their behaviors algorithmically (in other words, to “learn”) — as well as on “natural language processing” — that is, teaching computers to understand input from humans that isn’t written in code. (Yes, this is a greatly oversimplified explanation. I didn’t last too long in Sebastian Thrun’s AI MOOC.)Despite the popularity and the hype surrounding MOOCs, Thrun may still be best known for his work on the Google self-driving car. And I’d argue we can look at autonomous vehicles — not only the technology, but the business, the marketing, the politics — and see some connections to how AI might construe education as well. If nothing else, much like the self-driving car with its sensors and cameras and knowledge of the Google-mapped-world, we are gathering immense amounts of data on students via their interactions with hardware, software, websites, and apps. And more data, so the argument goes, equals better modeling.Fine-tuning these models and “teaching machines” has been the Holy Grail for education technology for a hundred years — that is to say, there has long been a quest to write software that offers “personalized feedback,” that responds to each individual student’s skills and needs. That’s the promise of today’s “adaptive learning,” the promise of both automation and algorithms.What makes ed-tech programming “adaptive” is that the AI assesses a student’s answer (typically to a multiple choice question), then follows up with the “next best” question, aimed at the “right” level of difficulty. This doesn’t have to require a particularly complicated algorithm, and the idea actually based on “item response theory” which dates back to the 1950s and the rise of the psychometrician. Despite the intervening decades, quite honestly, these systems haven’t become terribly sophisticated, in no small part because they tend to rely on multiple choice tests.And yet the marketing surrounding these adaptive learning systems is full of wildly exaggerated claims about their potential and their capabilities. Arguably the worst offender: Knewton.In August, Knewton “Think of it as a friendly robot-tutor in the sky,” Jose Ferreira, Knewton founder and CEO, said in the company’s A couple of years ago, he was giving similar interviews: “What if you could learn everything,” was “We literally know everything about what you know and how you learn best, everything” Ferreira says in a video posted on the Department of Education website. “We have five orders of magnitude more data about you than Google has. …We literally have more data about our students than any company has about anybody else about anything, and it’s not even close.”The way that Knewton describes it, this technology is an incredible, first-of-its-kind breakthrough in “personalization” — that is, the individualization of instruction and assessment, mediated through technology in this case. “Personalization” as it’s often framed it meant to counter the “one-size-fits-all” education that, stereotypically at least, the traditional classroom provides.And if the phrase “semi-read your mind” didn’t set off your bullshit detector, I’ll add this: there’s a dearth of evidence — nothing published in peer-reviewed research journals — that Knewton actually Yet that seems to be beside the point. The company, which has raised some The efforts to create, as Ferreira puts it, a “robot-tutor” are actually quite long-running. Indeed the history of education technology throughout the twentieth and now twenty-first centuries could be told by looking at these endeavors. Even the earliest teaching machines — those developed before the advent of the computer — strove to function much like today’s “adaptive technologies.” These devices would allow students, their inventors argued, to “learn at their own pace,” a cornerstone of “personalization” via technology.It’s easy perhaps to scoff at the crudity of these machines, particularly when compared to the hype and flash from today’s ed-tech industry. Ohio State University professor Sidney Pressey built the prototype for his device “It’s Harvard psychology professor and radical behaviorist B. F. Skinner who is often credited as the inventor of the first teaching machine, even though Pressey’s work predated Skinner’s by several decades. Skinner insisted that his machines were different: while Pressey’s This incrementalism was important for Skinner because he believed that the machines could be used to minimize the number of errors that students made along the way, maximizing the positive reinforcement that students received. (This was a key feature of his behaviorist model of learning.) Educational materials should be be broken down into small chunks and organized in a logical fashion for students to move through. Skinner called this process “programmed instruction.”In some ways, this is akin to what Knewton claims to do today: taking the content associated with a particular course or textbook and breaking it down into small “learning objects.” Again, to quote Ferreira in the company’s latest press release, “Knewton plucks the perfect bits of content for you from the cloud and assembles them according to the ideal learning strategy for you, as determined by the combined data-power of millions of other students.”That assembly of content based on “data-power” is distinct from what either Pressey or Skinner’s machines could do. That capability, of course, is a result of the advent of the computer. Students using these early teaching machines still had to work through the type and the order of questions as these machines presented them; they could only control the It’s hardly a surprise that echoing this relationship has been a goal that education technology has strived for. A private tutor is often imagined to be the best possible form of instruction, superior to “whole class instruction” associated with the public school system. And it’s what royalty and the rich have provided their children historically; parents can still spend a great deal of money in providing a private tutor for their child.A tutor is purportedly the pinnacle of “individualized instruction.” Some common assumptions: A tutor pays attention — full attention — to only one student. The lessons are crafted and scaffolded specifically for that student, and a tutor does not move on to the next lesson until the student masters the concept at hand. A tutor offers immediate feedback, stepping in to correct errors in reasoning or knowledge. A tutor keeps the student on task and sufficiently motivated, through a blend of subject-matter expertise, teaching skills, encouragement, compassion, and rigor. But a student can also take control of the exchange, asking questions or change the topic. Working with a tutor, student is a more actively engaged learner — indeed, a tutor provides an opportunity for a student to Now But here’s the challenge that Bloom identified: one-to-one tutoring is “too costly for most societies to bear on a large scale.” It might work for the elite, but one tutor for every student simply won’t work for public education.Enter the computer — and a rekindling of interesting in building “robot tutors.”While the “robot tutor” can trace its lineage through the early teaching machines of Pressey and Skinner, it owes much to the work of early researchers in artificial intelligence as well, and as such, the successes and failures of “intelligent tutoring systems” can be mapped to a field that was, at its outset in the early 1950s, was quite certain it was on the verge of creating a breakthrough in “thinking machines.” And once we could could build a machine that thinks, surely we could build machines to teach humans how to think and how to learn. “Within a generation,” MIT AI professor Marvin Minsky famously predicted in 1967, “the problem of creating ‘artificial intelligence’ will substantially be solved.”The previous year, Stanford education professor Patrick Suppes made a similar pronouncement in the Of course, we have yet to solve the problems of artificial intelligence, let alone the problem of creating “intelligent tutoring systems,” despite decades of research.These systems — “robot tutors” — have to be able to perform a number of tasks, far more complex than those that early twentieth century teaching machines could accomplish. To match the ideal humor tutor, robot tutors have to be programmed with enough material to be subject matter experts (or at least experts in the course materials. That’s not new or unique — pre-digital teaching machines did that too.) But they also should be able to respond with more nuance than just “right” or “wrong.” They must be able to account for what students’ misconceptions mean — In the 1960s, many researchers began to take advantage of mainframe computers and time-sharing to develop computer assisted instructional (CAI) systems. Much like earlier, pre-digital teaching machines, these were often fairly crude — Early examples of CAI include the work of Patrick Suppes and Richard Atkinson at their lab at Stanford, the Institute for Mathematical Studies in the Social Sciences. They developed a system that taught reading and arithmetic to elementary students in Palo Alto as well as in rural Kentucky and Mississippi. In 1967, the two founded the Computer Curriculum Corporation, which sold CAI systems — mainframes, terminals, and curriculum — to schools.(The company was acquired in 1990 by Simon  Schuster, which a few years later sold the CAI software to Pearson.)Meanwhile, at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, another CAI system was under development, no small part due to the work by then graduate student Don Bitzer on the university’s ILLIAC–1 mainframe. He called it Programmed Logic for Automatic Teaching Operations or PLATO. Bitzer recognized that the user interface would be key for any sort of educational endeavor, and as such he thought that the terminals that students used should offer more than text-based Teletype, which at the time was the common computer interface. Bitzer helped develop a screen that could display both text and graphics. And more than just display, the screen enabled touch. PLATO boasted another feature too: the programming language TUTOR which (ostensibly at least) allowed anyone to build lessons for the system.(Much like CCC, PLATO was eventually spun out of the university lab into a commercial product, sold by the Control Data Corporation. CDC sold the trademark “PLATO” in 1989 to The Roach Organization which changed its name to PLATO Learning. Another online network based on PLATO called NovaNet was developed by the UIUC, later purchased by National Computer Systems which in turn was acquired by Pearson. Work on computer-assisted instruction continued in the 1970s and 1980s — the term “intelligent tutoring system” (ITS) was coined in 1982 by D. Sleeman and J.S. Brown. Research focused on modeling student knowledge, including their misconceptions or “bugs” that led to their making errors. In general, artificial intelligence had also made strides in natural language processing that boosted computers’ capabilities to process students’ input and queries — beyond their choosing one answer in a multiple choice question. The emerging field of cognitive science also began to shape research in education technology as well. Intelligent tutoring systems have remained one of the key areas in the overlap between AI and ed-tech research.Nevertheless many of the early claims about the coming of “robot tutors” were also challenged early, in no small part because buying these systems proved to be even more expensive for schools and districts than hiring human teachers. And as MIT researcher Ronni Rosenberg wrote in a So in the almost thirty years since Ronenberg’s article, has there been a major breakthrough in “robot tutors”? Not really. Rather there’s been a steady progress of work on the topic, driven in part by a belief in the superiority of individualized instruction as exemplified by a human tutor. And there’s a ton of marketing hype. We seem to love the story of a “robot tutor.”As I joked at the beginning of this keynote, the discussions and development of automation are fundamentally labor issues: the robots, we’re told, are coming for our jobs.Now everyone from B. F. Skinner to Knewton’s CEO Jose Ferreira likes to insist that they don’t intend for their machines to I was recently contacted by a writer for Slate magazine who was working on a story on adaptive technologies. We all know the plot by now: these stories stress the fact that this software is “reshaping the entire educational experience in some settings.” (That last phrase — “in some settings” — is key.) That teachers no longer “teach”; they tutor. They walk around the class and help when an individual student gets stuck. Students can move at their own pace. “This strikes me as a promising approach in a setting like a developmental math course at a community college,” the journalist wrote to me. And I asked him why the most vulnerable students should get the robot — a robot, remember, that does not care.A 2011 article by Overall the research on “robot tutors” is pretty mixed. As MIT education researcher Justin Reich has pointed out, “Some rigorous studies show no effects of adaptive systems as compared to traditional instruction, and others show small to moderate effects. In the aggregate, most education policy experts don’t consider it to be a reliability effective approach to improve mathematics learning.”Robot tutors are not, as Knewton’s CEO has boasted, “magic pills.”So as Reich says, we should be cautious about what exactly these adaptive systems can really do and if it’s the type of thing we really value. Reich writes that,“Robot tutors,” it is worth noting, are not the only path that computers in education can follow. As Seymour Papert wrote in his 1980 book Papert envisioned instead “the child programming the computer,” and he believed that computers could be a powerful tool for students to construct their own knowledge. That’s “personalization” that a skilled human tutor could help facilitate — fostering student inquiry and student agency. But “robot tutors,” despite the venture capital and the headlines, can’t yet get beyond their script.And that’s a problem with algorithms as well.Algorithms increasingly drive our world: what we see on Facebook or Twitter, what Amazon or Netflix suggest we buy or watch, the search results that Google returns, our credit scores, whether we’re selected by TSA for additional security, and so on. Algorithms drive educational software too — this is the boast of a company like Knewton. But it’s the claim of other companies as well: how TurnItIn can identify plagiarism, how Civitas Learning can identify potential drop-outs, how Degree Compass can recommend college classes, and so on.Now I confess, I’m a literature person. I’m a cultural studies person. I’m not a statistics person. I’m not a math person. Some days I play the role of a technology person, but only on the Internet. So although I want to push for more “algorithmic transparency,” a counter-balance to what law professor Frank Pasquale has called “the black box society,” it’s not like showing me the code is really going to do much good. But we can nevertheless, I think, still look at the human inputs — the culture, the values, the goals of the engineers and entrepreneurs — and ask questions about the algorithms and the paths they want to push students down.(I saw a headline from MIT this morning — “Why Self-Driving Cars Must Be Programmed to Kill” — for an article calling for “algorithmic morality.” I reckon that is something for the humanities scholars and the social scientists among us to consider; not simply the computer scientists at MIT.)We can surmise what feeds the algorithms that drive educational technologies. It is, as I noted earlier, often administrative goals. This might include: improving graduation rates, improving attendance, identifying classes that students will easily pass. (That is not to say these might not be students’ goals as well; it’s just that they are distinct, I’d contend, from learning goals.) The algorithms that drive ed-tech often serve the platform or the software’s goals too: more clicking, which means more “engagement,” which does not necessarily mean more learning, but it can make for a nice graph for you to show your investors.Algorithms circumscribe, all while giving us the appearance of choice, the appearance of personalization: Netflix thinks you’ll like the new Daredevil series, for example, based on the fact you’ve watched Thor half a dozen times. But it won’t, it can’t suggest you pick up and read Marvel’s Black Panther. And it won’t suggest you watch the DC animated comics series, either, because it no longer has a license to stream them. What’s the analogy of this to education? What are algorithms going to suggests? What does that recommendation engine look like?Serendipity and curiosity are such important elements in learning. Why would we engineer those out of our systems and schools? (And which systems and which schools?)Austerity. I think that can explain (partially) why.Many of us in education technology talk about this being a moment of great abundance — information abundance — thanks to digital technologies. But I think we are actually / also at a moment of great austerity. And when we talk about the future of education, we should question if we are serving a world of abundance or if we are serving a world of austerity. I believe that automation and algorithms, these utterly fundamental features of much of ed-tech, do serve austerity. And it isn’t simply that “robot tutors” (or robot keynote speakers) are coming to take our jobs; it’s that they could limit the possibilities for, the necessities of care and curiosity.That’s not a future I want for anyone.education writer, recovering academic, serial dropout, ed-tech’s Cassandra, author of The Monsters of Education Technology. (And coming soon: Teaching Machines)Essays on the history of ed-tech

Hillary Clinton wants to reform higher education using the same failed approach that has been tried in Washington for decades: she wants to raise taxes and pour more money into the current outdated system rather than take the initiative to modernize it.Our higher education system is antiquated and broken in multiple ways. It is too expensive, too time consuming, and too inflexible for busy single parents and working adults. At a time when higher education is a requirement for most high-paying jobs, too many Americans do not have the time or money to earn a degree, and too many degrees do not lead to jobs.Allowing every American the opportunity to earn an affordable degree that equips them for a modern high-paying job will be a top priority of my presidency. We cannot restore the American Dream if we fail in this task. So what is Hillary Clinton’s solution to this generation-defining challenge? To raise taxes and pump $350 billion into the current outdated system without making any fundamental changes to increase accessibility, competition, or choice.In fact, not only would Hillary Clinton’s plan fail to solve the underlying problems, it would actually make the underlying problems worse. As history clearly shows, whenever government increases higher education spending, schools happily raise tuition since they know the federal government will foot the bill. One study found the impact of increased government funding on rising tuition rates was as high as 65 percent. So Hillary Clinton’s proposal will likely cost taxpayers even more than its initial daunting price tag.I will take a different approach. Rather than spend more to maintain the current flawed system, I will fix higher education by promoting choice, competition, greater access, and lower costs. I have proposed specific reforms that will achieve these goals throughout my time in the Senate, and I will enact them as president.Chief among these reforms is my plan to fix accreditation, which is the process by which institutions become certified to provide degrees. This process is currently controlled by a cartel of established colleges and universities, which use their power to block competitors from emerging. This is why flexible online degrees often cost just as much as traditional on-campus education: because brick-and-mortar schools don’t want to compete with more accessible options.As president, I will establish a new, independent accrediting entity designed to welcome affordable and innovative education providers. This would transform higher education by exposing it to the market forces of choice and competition, which inevitably bring down prices for consumers. It would give rise to new ways of earning a degree or certification. For example, people could finally get credit for what they learn everyday using the resources all around them, such as free online tools, apprenticeships, mentorships and personal instruction.I’ve also proposed changes to how graduates repay their student loans. As president, I will make payments automatically proportional to a graduate’s earnings, thus reducing the financial risks of pursuing a degree. I will also allow students to avoid loan debt altogether by partnering with investors who will pay their tuition in return for a small percentage of their salary for a set number of years after graduation. This way, the risk would lie with the investor rather than students and taxpayers.When I am president, college applicants will also be provided with information about how much they can expect to earn with a major from a given school, allowing them to make an informed decision about whether the financial costs of their chosen degree will be worth it.Reforming higher education isn’t just good policy — for me, it’s deeply personal. I had over $100,000 in student loan debt as recently as four years ago. I know what it’s like to have your biggest monthly expense be the loan payment to Sallie Mae. I understand this challenge, and I understand how to solve it. That is why I will apply the same common sense to higher education as I will to all our outdated institutions: I will mend our broken system rather than spend more to maintain it. It’s the only way to bring our nation into the 21st century and empower all our people to achieve the American Dream.United States Senator from Florida. Candidate for President of the United States. Fighting for a New American Century

The digital revolution in higher education has happened. In the fall of 2012, the most recent semester with complete data in the U.S., four million undergraduates The first for-credit classes appeared online You wouldn’t know this from public conversation, where online courses are discussed as something that might be a big deal some day, rather than as ordinary reality for one student in four. The dramatic expansion of online classes has been largely ignored because it’s been driven by non-traditional students, which is to say students If you’re reading this, you were probably a smart kid who did well at a good school, and that description extends to almost everyone you know. The gap between the conversation about college and its reality exists because the people who drive that conversation — you and me and our friends — mostly talk about elite schools.With the explosion of interest at the beginning of this decade, there was talk of how online education was going to be so excellent students would choose it over four-year residential schools. That conversation was typical of our highly educated tribe — for us to imagine something is good, it has to be good for us. Meanwhile, back in America, online education isn’t succeeding because it is better than Oberlin, it’s succeeding because it’s better than nothing, and nothing is what’s on currently offer for millions of people.Compare the recent threatened closings of Sweet Briar versus the Community College of San Francisco. Sweet Briar has an enrollment of 530 and offers courses in horseback riding; CCSF has an enrollment of 85,000 and offers courses in motorcycle engine repair. Our collective obsession with elite students and institutions means public conversations about college are increasingly irrelevant to the lives of many of the actual students. This becomes clear when you look at the list of things that heighten the risk of a student dropping out of a traditional college:One review of this list dryly notes “The same study notes that “students with higher index of risk had a significantly greater preference for distance education classes.” Among undergraduates taking all their classes online, One common observation about online education is that it will mean ‘bricks for the rich and clicks for the poor.’ Something like this has indeed happened, though ‘…clicks for the poorly served’ would be more accurate. Students taking online classes aren’t looking for bargains; Penn State’s online-only World Campus was an early example of online classes as a source of flexibility. As the name suggests, World Campus was designed to recruit new students from all over, but the institution quickly found most World Campus students were already enrolled at Penn State. Even students who look traditional use these classes to increase their chance of graduating.As long as we discuss online education as a pedagogic revolution rather than an organizational one, we aren’t even having the right Outside a relative handful of selective residential institutions, the principal function of college is to train and credential people for work. An Associate’s or Bachelor’s is no longer one way of getting a good job. It is just about the only way of avoiding low wages or unemployment. The earnings premium for having a college degree has stagnated, but the punishment for not having one When Starbucks polled a sample of its workforce about possible benefits, 80 percent indicated interest in help finishing college. This led Starbucks to establish Starbucks realized that getting a diploma requires two skills — the ability to pass classes, and the ability to manage everything else about college — and that everything else is by far the harder job. This leads to It’s amazing how difficult our institutions make it to manage everything about college outside the classroom, and how little it would take to make it easier.When a group of colleges offering online classes in Connecticut decided to direct questions about financial aid to their shared IT call center, thousands of students called, but almost all their questions were some version of How do I apply?, What’s my status? or Why did I get this amount? When Franklin University launched an online tool to let students see which of their previous courses would transfer, When students taking the ACT college readiness exam were allowed to send If you rank countries by rate of college enrollment, For the people who most need college, small inconveniences can be intimidating, and intimidation means not applying, or not applying to good schools, or not getting transfer credit. Even the idea of an We already know what the college of the future will look like, because the non-traditional students are creating it now. It’s a hybrid of online and in-person classes, centered on the student and not the institution, with For most students, this will unfold over a longer period with more breaks than traditional categories like two- and four-year college would suggest. There is Given the lousy fit between institutional assumptions and the actual lives of most students, we should applaud their inventiveness in using digital options to make college work for them. But we should also recognize our complicity in creating a system that works so badly in the first place. Online classes are no longer surprising, or experimental, or rare. By adopting them, students are telling us what they need our institutions to become.Bald. Unreliable. Easily distracte

Medium is an educational tool. Medium is If your look at research on feedback you see that it has quite an impact on learning for both the ones who write and the ones who give feedback.The more the students give and receive feedback the more they learn. Therefore we as teachers must ensure opportunities for peer feedback. That’s why I think Medium is such a great tool for education. You don’t write to write or read to read; you write to start a discussion, you read to participate in one. You use Medium to engage with other people.I recently read about an interesting blogging project at So bottom line is; When students do writings today they are likely using Word, Pages or Google Docs and export the final as a PDF.Liu and Carless, 2006 (The following will be a concept of Medium in teaching.Ask your students to write a story on Medium about a relevant subject. Ask your students to share their story with other students before publishing it. Either two-and-two or in smaller groups. In this way they can easily give feedback to each other during the writing proces (without worrying about different versions).Ask the students to publish their final story either as a public story (with the world) or unlisted (only with fellow students). Share the story with the rest of the class. Now it’s time for the students and the teacher(s) to give feedback and discuss through comments, highlights and responses. This is the essential part.Optionally the teacher can give feedback via a response story. Again this response can be public or unlisted. But it’s important that the feedback is available for all students to read. Everybody benefits from feedback even though it’s not for or from you.You can use Medium for education right of the box but I have one feature request that would make it just at bit easier. All I need is a That’s it. I really thing this is an exciting time for education. Not because of the technology itself but because of the opportunities they give us. All we need to do is see those opportunities.I just read a Worktogethernesser, educational developer, photographer, cyborg, workflowistAuthentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Two stories crossed in my attention today, seemingly unrelated but in fact, one holds the key to the other. New York Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that Being geek while brown and named Ahmed Mohammed brought out the racism and police overreaction in Texas.As I pondered de Blasio’s announcement, I considered the ways this well-meaning initiative could just fizzle out. As someone with a life-long interest in this, not just as a person who got introduced to programming as a young teen, but also as an And I pondered the answer also in the headlines: how the nation should learn from Ahmed (after a lengthy, lengthy apology).How will NYC expand computer science to all high schools? Here are some (sadly likely) scenarios that will go down badly:Experience shows that this is quite unlikely to work at scale — except on kids who are already on this path. Those who need this least.Trying to scale up a result by working backwards from successful examples is a common source of failure in many well-meaning social programs. (Social scientists call this selecting on the dependent variable which is appropriate for some questions, or for microbes, but rarely works well for humans).You know the story: People look at successful examples of what they want to create more of — programmers or people who regularly exercise or eat their carrots— and take an epidemiological approach: working backwards from those who already do this to their life story, as if learning to code were a virus, and if we could only find the initial infection model, we could just scale it up.What such initiatives often end up finding is that this doesn’t work simply because there are inherent and strong differences between people who already end up on this path as earlier adopters, and people we are trying to pull to this path, as an expansion. What works on one rarely works on the latter. Early adopters are different than people who come after them. (This, by the way, is a reason some startups fail: they can’t judge how to scale up without getting stuck on early adopter populations).Teaching well is also not something that works like an infection, spreading knowledge through mere exposure, from the all-knowing to the ignorant. Over the years, I have watched many efforts by very well meaning, wonderful technical people who tried to teach important technical matters to non-geek communities. Few such efforts worked well because teaching is the art and science of disregarding one’s own journey in favor of understanding the path of the person in front of you. Knowing the content to be taught is absolutely necessary, but never sufficient.This is not to say expanding opportunity doesn’t expand outcomes: it does, but within very real limits unless opportunity is defined in a way that is broader that what worked in the past.So how to teach coding and get students interested in computer science? (Though those are not exactly the same).By focusing on what motivates people to enter and stay in these field, and finding ways to expand that path.In motivational research, scholars talk about intrinsic and extrinsic motivations. Extrinsic motivations are external rewards: Read so many chapter books, and we’ll pay you money, or give you good grades. A higher salary, to someone already making good money. These act like shiny stickers on a hollow core. They stop working the moment sticker loses the shine. Intrinsic motivations are being moved to act from the joy of the pursuit: reading as pleasure. A job that is fulfilling. This is strengthening the core, the generative, joyful part of learning process so that people keep eat it.It turns out from research that over-emphasizing the extrinsic motivations blocks people from discovering their own path to the intrinsic motivations. Kid who are given money to read stop reading when the money stops coming. Kids merely encouraged to read, without rewards, are more likely to grow into enjoy reading for the sake of reading. External motivations are good to get people started a little, but anything that will become lifelong has to switch to encouraging paths to intrinsic motivation as soon as possible.The way to attract students to computer science and coding isn’t to try to attract them to programming languages. (Though never teach anyone Basic.) (::ducks from the fight sure to erupt in the comments to the previous sentence::). It really doesn’t matter that much which language they get in the field (though Python and C are good options that will help ground them for life). Motivation for the field is not going to be making a lot of money as a programmer, not for most of them. (Most ninth graders aren’t the most practical people). And lofty language about diversity in programming won’t work too well as a motivation for most youngsters either. (While having teams that design our futures come from more walks of life is crucial, that is rarely how young people get moved to do anything.)Instead, let’s think about the core that generates long-term interest. What distinguishes geek and programming culture is this: it’s a maker culture, one that is smart, creative and very interesting in building things.You know, things like a home brew digital clock with some circuits and a transformer.Just like Ahmed Mohammed.I once wrote about this less understood aspects of geek culture, for the New York Times:That’s right: fields that are akin to computer programming in terms of teaching are art or cooking: a mix of science and art, both aspects interesting, and an emphasis on doing, but within rules, rules which can be expanded and bent, creatively, with increased competence.And that means letting kids build things through computation, but things that work, and things that do things. Not boring exercises designed to be graded easily, not learning what commands do. Rather, using computation but with guidance of experienced teachers who also take joy in the field.Can technically competent people be taught to teach better? Absolutely. Can teachers be taught to code so that they approach the field with joy and competence, rather than anxiety? Of course. But above all, computing classes should be places where maker culture thrives, and students learn to build things that work.Computation is increasingly integrated into every field. Kids who want to grow up to save lions from going extinct can learn to program spatial optimization programs that conservationists use to carve out the geography national parks that maximize biodiversity. Students who like literature can reflect on word patterns and sensibility in literature by building digital humanities tools. Kids who like physical sciences can build games that throw objects along a trajectory inflected by gravity. (I dunno, like throw some birds at some pigs from a sling?)Making, just making is a joyful act. In a world increasingly designed to throw away and buy new and complete objects to replace things that don’t work rather than fix, tinker and rebuild, maker culture a great sensibility to cultivate. Making is among the most human of human things, a deeply fulfilling part of our souls, and something that is increasingly constricted in an straitjacket workplace in many fields. Maker culture will be a draw to many kids, many of whom won’t end up as programmers, but will likely use or understand computation better in the rest of their lives.My dream would be computer science classes that are workshops: learn, do, make, test, redo. Share examples, receive guidance and try again. Few lectures. No worksheets. Failure as a reward for trying, not an excuse for a low grade. Just making and learning. On iteration.Don’t build computer science classes. Build and celebrate a maker culture.Let Ahmed be Ahmed.The rest will flow.Thinking about our tools, ourselves. Assistant prof at UNC iSchool. Princeton CITP fellow, Harvard Berkman faculty associate, Sociology. A Pandaemonium Revolver Collection. Season 2 stars 

How my dreams of joining the academic elite were dashed.Those of you who know me or follow my As a kid I was kind of intense, particularly when a subject caught my attention. I started a school project on astronomy when I was 11 which ended up being a 2 year project that spanned 14 volumes and resulted in my giving a physics class to my peer 12 year olds on the As reflected in my University and higher education wasn’t “a thing” growing up in my household and it wasn’t really on the menu when I was at school. At a careers meeting when I was 13 I explained that I wanted to be an astronaut. The teacher became irritated, she said that she didn’t have a brochure for that and I could choose between the local meat processing factory, the Co-Op who were opening a new store in town or, if I got good grades, a job at the bank. I think my parents assumed that I would follow in the family business and be a car mechanic. Fortunately for me it was nearly the 80s and the microcomputer boom was almost upon us.Although I finished school early I never left education, or at least learning. I still have an obsessive nature and a learning style that can be best described as osmosis. My first proper job was working for the Open University as a lab technician in the Genetics Group. I was 16, it was a panel interview and I ranted like Spud from the While at the OU I taught myself to code using the University mainframe computer where I was crunching some of the genetic data to predict sequence outcomes for experiments conducted using drosophila. That’s fruit flies to the man on the street. As mentioned earlier it was the beginning of the microcomputer boom and I quickly switched to the OU’s computing department and started writing programs for a new UK government scheme called “It wasn’t long before I hopped again and went to work for a small computer manufacturer in Oxford specialising in education called For the rest of my career see I look back over the last 30+ years of my career and wonder where did all that time go, yet at the same time I can’t believe that I’ve packed so much into it. But it’s only now at the start of my 50s (yes I know I look and behave a lot younger), having helped partners and children through their degrees and masters, that I feel I have the time and the resources to consider higher education for myself.It was my partner who suggested that I consider doing an Education MA. “So I decided to make enquiries. First, I canvassed respected friends and colleagues. I asked academic friends at MIT, Harvard, Cambridge, Bristol and UCL whether they thought I’d be eligible and if they thought a university would accept me without a degree. They were universally positive that I’d be accepted, all willing to provide references although some questioned the benefit of me going to university at all.Now I should point out that none of these good people were responding in an “official” capacity rather they were friends giving me a steer before I made any kind of application.Encouraged by these positive words and because I live in London I decided to contact the I soon received a reply from IoE’s administrator that said:This was disappointing news. I canvassed friends and colleagues specifically at the IoE for advice. I returned to the administrator of the IoE requesting a clarification about the policy and whether in light of my experience what benefit would studying for an entrance degree bring me. Time passed and I didn’t receive a reply so I decided to take it up with Clare Brooks, Head of Department of Curriculum, Pedagogy and Assessment.Clare was more upbeat and encouraging, suggesting that I would need to enrol for an introductory module of the MA titled “Well that seemed quite reasonable to me and I advised Clare that I would be attending the The open evening started off with an introductory speech from Chris treated us to a rambling talk with illegible PowerPoint slides. In fact, the illegibility of the slides became a key part of the talk as he explained that they looked perfectly fine when he was putting them together in his hotel room prior to flying back to London from Beijing a day earlier. In fact he mentioned Beijing a lot. He also spent a lot of time telling us how the IoE was ranked #1 for Education 2 years running in the QS rankings. Well they obviously hadn’t experienced Chris’ slides. It reminded me of the beauty parade of secondary schools that I took my daughter on before she started, where headteachers would bang on about their Chris should definitely consider a future in politics however given that he successfully managed to avoid answering any question directly. I asked him about his thoughts on current UK educational reforms and if IoE felt it had to respond to the current vogue of “Chris also managed to wax lyrical about how flexible and inclusive the IoE was, indeed this was the very thing that set it apart from the rest and why he thought it had been so successful in the QS rankings.Speech over and it was now time to go and meet faculty and the representatives of each of the MA courses on offer to learn more. I made a beeline for the Education MA queue to speak to I introduced myself and explained that I didn’t possess the traditional entrance requirements of a degree. It was as if I had stepped on some kind of incendiary device that triggered a wall to erect between myself and Leaton Gray. Why did I think it was possible to enrol for the MA when I hadn’t even completed a degree?Feeling somewhat startled and a little humiliated in this public space I tried to explain that I had been quite active in the education sector amongst academics and that I’d been published. Sandra replied that this meant very little and thatI tried to persevere by explaining that the work that I had completed during the past two years required a substantial amount of research and reading of literature but Sandra wasn’t having it. “These were her words, I never mentioned anything about a “Sandra didn’t know me and I certainly didn’t know her so quite where she got her judgements from I don’t know. Other candidates waiting in line were equally aghast at the exchange and came to speak to me later in the evening.I understand that having worked to earn her PhD Sandra has a vested interest in maintaining an intellectual hegemony. But on what basis she made these calls I have no idea. I wondered if I’d actually completed a BA degree some 30 years ago how useful would it be today? I tried to mention that Clare Brooks, the head of her department, had said that it may be possible for me to enrol on the introductory module but Leaton Gray was having none of it.For in those 3 short minutes she taught me an invaluable lesson — that regardless of our changing world, universities, and indeed the education structure itself, remain rigid and assessment focused. They have no interest in transformation, rather they exist only to reproduce and reinforce the status quo, to ensure that we live in a world of homogenised thought, an echo chamber in which they have tenure.This episode is not without its irony. My motivation was to understand more about the way we assess our learners so that I could try to disrupt it, which of course is the very last thing that these businesses want. Why would you want to disrupt something that you already benefit from?Heretic - formerly Learning Without Frontiers now How the connected society is transforming learning

You can trace the history of ed-tech through many education philosophies and through many technologies. Too often we fail to trace that history at all — a pity because then we don’t think about the trajectory that our storytelling places us on.And too often, we focus simply on technologies related to the computer and the Internet. Broadcast has long history of usage in the classroom; and radio, film, and television have been seen as appropriate, if not innovative technological interventions in teaching and learning. In part, it’s because broadcast offers a way to deliver lessons and lectures at scale, but also, broadcast is readily viewed as analogous to what educators already do (or what people think educators do): that is, perform a script in front of students. And the better the production value of the performance supposedly, the better the learning.One of the things that’s striking about the passages below — taken from a lecture delivered by Buckminster Fuller in 1961 (and published in What teaching consists of, according to this framework, is repeating the same “curriculum cards” year after year. There is no consideration here of discussion or dialogue; no consideration of tutoring. Teaching is content delivery; broadcast can do that more efficiently.Fuller predicted that television wouldn’t simply involve the broadcast of one (station, signal) to many (households, individuals). He also envisioned individuals being able to broadcast or signal Here we have an early fantasy of the future learner — what Tressie McMillan Cottom has called the ““Real education,” Fuller writes, “will be something to which individuals will discipline themselves spontaneously under the stimulus of their own ticker-tapes — their individually unique chromosomes.” And as Cottom has argued, it’s not simply about being self-taught by broadcast television (or, in her research, online education or MOOCs); it is also about that adjective “roaming.” Indeed, Fuller observes that “we are mobile,” and that mobility will upset traditional political and social institutions.There will be no The new education technology to address this: Fuller’s invention the Geoscope, a 200-foot diameter geodesic sphere covered in lights and computers, displaying historical and current data. “All world data would be dynamically viewable and picturable and relayable by radio to all the world, so that common consideration in a most educated manner of all world problems by all world people would become a practical event.”Schools will continue to exist, Fuller argues, “because of the growing need for babysitters.” (Oh.) But then, thanks to educational television, children will grow into scholars.“education writer, recovering academic, serial dropout, ed-tech’s Cassandra, author of The Monsters of Education Technology. (And coming soon: Teaching Machines)Essays on the history of ed-tech

After extensive research on transformative and innovative education, I recently came across a radically different approach to education: a full stack approach experimented at AltSchool. I have to say I am impressed. As I began reading about AltSchool, I quickly started to draw mental connections with other peer-to-peer business models such as Amazon, Netflix, Airbnb, LendingClub or Holacracy, the management 2.0 world I come from. AltSchool is building a new operating system to enable a 21st century education. But what does that look like precisely?In mid-2013, entrepreneur Let’s look at that model more in depth to understand what makes AltSchools specifics so revolutionary, and, IMHO, the school of tomorrow. Lets zoom in on what AltSchool is not, and how it is different from other schools.AltSchool is not resilient to change contrary to traditional schools, which have to be very conservative in what they try out due to the bureaucracy they’re saddled with. Altschool is like a lab, emphasizing a Quite frankly, I do not know a better way to build an organization that sustains acceleration and harnesses the power of evolution. As CEO Ventilla says: “Forget about standardized tests and common core curriculum! When a new child joins AltSchool, a There’s nothing new about using technology in the classroom, of course. That said, technology is not here to replace the relationship-driven real world. Instead its role is to superpower the teacher giving him(her) autonomy and support. With this approach in mind, it’s easy to imagine a vast library of apps, offered by third parties and based on meritocracy, as a teacher’s arsenal for individual learning. Just like you install apps on your smartphone, a teacher at AltSchool could adopt apps on a similar platform, from adaptive learning solutions (Khan Academy, Star Walk, Wordflex, etc.) to administrative operations (office supplies logistics, resource allocation). This territory is one of AltSchool’s most exciting features for me, as it allows for all sorts of experiments and possibilities.I love the fact that Now, I’m curious to see how AltSchool develops, particularly in relation to how they will handle what I think to be their biggest challenge: finding and getting facilities up and runnning while navigating the city permit process. Good luck with that!So is AltSchool the new black? There is no doubt about it, as far as I’m concerned. Im sold. I admire their clear sense of “we’re changing the world” that emanates from AltSchool insiders. Ultimately, the vision of Altschool is to allow childs within the school to flourish, much like human cells are organized into organs, themselves organized into bodies, and into the world to express their purpose as humans.Exploring opportunities in #EdTech and #DesignThinking. Holacracy supporter. Psychology enthusiast. And a slight addiction to train trips ;-)Accelerated Learning, Tech, Antifragility, and Definite Optimism

We’re definitely in agreement on the premise.The Digital Divide gets a lot of attention today. Many kids today do lack basic access to technology. As you point out, addressing this issue is a crucial first step. I agree that beyond the Digital Divide, we need to solve the Digital Learning Gap. This involves training teachers and students in how to most effectively use different types of technology.Professional development for instructors is key. There are many teachers who embrace technology with open arms. There are others who are more skeptical. Let’s encourage schools to make use of these technology evangelists to show other teachers first-hand how tech can make their jobs easier.A big part of the burden lies with education technology providers, too. We can create the best technology in the world and give it to every student everywhere — but if it doesn’t fit the needs of teachers and students, it won’t be used.“EdTech” companies should partner with teachers from the start. They should conduct focus groups to help refine product vision. They should rely on user testing in the beta stage. And they must gather feedback once a product has launched.You mention “pockets of excellence” — schools and classrooms in which children are tackling real-world problems and using technology to experiment, think critically, question previously held beliefs, and make mistakes in a safe space. You’re right: We need more of these pockets. We need to build school environments that encourage experimentation on the part of both teachers and students, and which place value not only on test scores but also on critical thinking skills, engagement, problem-solving, and out-of-the-box thinking.Solving the Learning Gap is relevant in every school across the country and world — regardless of their current access to digital learning and technology. If we only solve for digital access, we’ll continue to miss the boat. I’m curious about your ideas around how we can prioritize both goals, and create learning environments in which technology is used to help students address deeper questions, encourage participation, and grow as critical thinkers.BrightFather, Husband, COO at KnewtonInnovation in Education

By Louis BarbashIn a recent In its This chart tells the story:Source: Pell InstituteThe Pell Institute’s report also found that the gap in college attendance rates between the top and bottom income quartiles shrank by just 6 percent since 1970. While 89 percent of students from the top income quartile went on to college in 2012, just 46 percent of students in the bottom quartile pursued higher education.Moreover, between 2001 and 2012, the share of Pell grant recipients attending four-year colleges declined, while the share of non-Pell students attending four-year schools increased. The result was a 20-point gap in four-year college attendance between Pell and non-Pell students in 2012, up from a 14-point gap in 2001. Pell grant recipients were also almost twice as likely to attend for-profit colleges in 2012, compared to 2001.Despite evidence that cutting public support for higher education widens the education gap between high- and low-income students, support levels continue to drop. As the Pell Institute documents, “[T]he percent of average college costs covered by the maximum Pell Grant declined by 40 percentage points — from a high of 67 percent in 1975 to a low of 27 percent in 2012.” And 29 states decreased their total funding of state colleges and universities, according to the The Pell Institute report offers a variety of recommendations for closing these gaps, such as restoring the value of Pell grants and increasing state support for public colleges and universities.But with Congress and more than two-thirds of state legislative chambers controlled by Republicans, the prospects for supplying the public resources needed to narrow the college-attainment gap seem dim, at least for the next several election cycles.Nevertheless, to recognize that reality is not to counsel despair. Perhaps the opportunities to close the gap can be found not near the top of the educational pyramid but nearer to the bottom — closer to where education actually takes place. Perhaps the path to closing — or at least narrowing — the college attainment gap should start not when students start college, but when they start kindergarten.The rich-poor gap is as real in K-12 as in college. In 2013, ACT As a result, while It’s natural for progressives to look to Washington and Congress for policy reform. And with reauthorization of No Child Left Behind, a/k/a the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) and the Higher Education Act both seemingly on glide-paths to Senate action, it’s tempting to dream of Congress recognizing that K-12 and post-secondary policy are inextricably linked and joining the two pieces of legislation together.That won’t happen. And it’s almost certainly hopeless to look to the House for more resources for student aid.But further down the national-local continuum, cities and states around the country have been awakened to the need to improve the education that low-income students receive before college. K-12 reform has been fermenting for more than a quarter-century and is still bubbling.State by state and city by city, innovations such as charter schools, standardized testing, the Common Core curriculum and the rest of the education reform agenda are being implemented, refined, and will succeed — or they won’t, and will fall by the wayside to be replaced by something else. No such zeitgeist, no comparable energy, no potential for real improvement obtains in higher education policy.So while the focus on students’ financial readiness for college is both laudable and important, let’s not forget that their academic readiness is equally crucial — particularly if the next 45 years are to see any narrowing of the gap in education equity.Next generation policy ideas, sponsored by the Washington Monthly. Editor: Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

With the onset of global access to digital information, the emphasis on rote memorization and frontal lectures in the classroom are a thing of the past — or at least they should be. We need to be mindful of the changing landscape of the global economy and create a new educational model that reflects this new reality.If we want our children to succeed post-graduation, schools will need to adapt to the demands of the 21st century by focusing on new skills and competencies. Our children have to work — and think — in different ways: they need to be agile, flexible and collaborative. They need to be able to utilize multidisciplinary knowledge to reach new conclusions.In his book The concept of intersectional ideas is not only key for innovation in industry — it is key to building a new educational model in order for our children to succeed in a world that increasingly favors collaborative, hybrid approaches to problem solving.The current school structure in the US is based on a mishmash of theories and standards adopted in the 19th and 20th centuries. Today, 21st century kids will need to be able to adapt to rapidly changing demands and technologies; in order to succeed in this new, global reality, they will have to possess a different skill set than their predecessors. There is a new focus on the importance of emotional intelligence (EQ) and a multidisciplinary, collaborative approach to problem solving.Schools have been slow to respond to this shift. According to code.org, the growth of computer science jobs is double the national average for job growth. The U.S. Department of Labor estimates that by 2020, there will be 1.4 million jobs in the computer science field; currently, estimates indicate that only a third of these jobs will be able to be filled by qualified university graduates.New trends such as the ability to access a full education online is changing the landscape of the current economy. The demands of the modern workplace call for a complete overhaul of an antiquated system.At a time where students are still fighting to achieve the illustrious 4.0 GPA, that quote is not only disheartening, but a challenge to the existing education system. Why should we continue to push our students to study for archaic tests that prove to be “worthless” in the context of the larger world? What is the point of a perfect SAT score or a fancy diploma on the wall if it gets you nowhere?In a powerful TedTalk entitled “The best way to add real value in today’s world is to create an ecosystem designed to unlock a student’s true potential. Literacy used to be the cornerstone of education and the key driver. Today it is applied learning. Examples are popping up across the country of new schools that reflect this new world: schools that use new models of education that are experiential, collaborative, project-based. Schools like the Teachers used to be the transmitters of information. They were the unquestionable knowers and distributors of content. In the age of information and Google, that has all changed. Today’s student has unlimited access to information. Does this make a teacher’s role obsolete? Quite the opposite, actually: the teacher’s role remains tantamount to students’ success. Only now, teachers must serve as facilitators, teaching students the skills of how to contextualize and apply the information that they have at their fingertips.Is the goal of education still to prepare students to be successful, contributing members of society upon graduation? If so (and I believe that it is), then we need to accept the fact that the educator’s role is no longer as a provider of information. In a true 21st century educational system, the true problem-solvers will not just have answers, but will build something that will create more questions. This paradoxical framework requires a specific skill set far above and beyond the standard reading, writing, and arithmetic.In the career section on their website, Google staff director Todd Carlisle says the best way to build a team is by seeking candidates who have “raw intellect, learning agility, diversity, leadership and innovation”. Buzzwords like grit, persistence, resilience and EQ (emotional intelligence) have become the new gold standards for being successful children and adults.Google Education even commissioned Our task is to build an educational system that values and encourages these traits.I have only scratched the surface of issues in our current education system. There are many more issues that need to be addressed in imagining a “perfect” school system. I don’t think that there is one right answer — and if there was, I don’t think that there is one authoritative figure who could come up with it alone. I do believe that we can push the needle forward. With collaboration from passionate leaders in multiple fields who all have a stake in the future of education, like folks in the fields of technology and education — and parents and students — I believe that we can create a shared vision of a better model.Boston, for example, is an innovation hub in the academic community, with local professors like Tony Wagner at the Harvard School of Education who is loudly advocating for The concept of an intersectional approach to problem solving should not only apply to startups and the corporate sector; it should be embedded in the educational landscape from an early age — and in the approach to exploring new educational models. We are currently experiencing a huge shift, not just as a generation, but as a species. The rate at which one is able to build what they imagine, combined with the availability of resources to make it happen, has increased exponentially. The only way we can keep up with and maintain a better, more sustainable ecosystem is by creating a new paradigm for education.

During the winter holiday, my wife and I watched Lorene Scafaria’s In I don’t want to give anything away, but this film makes us look at the choices we make in life vis-a-vis the chances that life throws at us. In a time when, arguably, we have evolved to a point when our technology and science can stave off that ultimate of life’s chances — I posit that part of the problem is that higher education no longer emphasizes the liberal arts. We are becoming trade schools, and this fact is robbing life of its joy.Have you ever asked yourself this important question? Yes, it’s meant in a general way: why are we humans on this planet, or what is the meaning of life? Philosophers have been trying to come to terms with this question for centuries, and ultimately it’s a question that each individual must answer.We also must answer this question in a specific context: why are you in college? We can certainly answer based on the reasons given to us by our society — it’s expected; college-educated people earn more money; it’s what you’re supposed to do after high school; I need it to get a good job; etc. Yet, have you answered this question for yourself? What are Granted, in this increasingly technical global economy, a college education does equip graduates to prosper as career professionals. In fact, more often than not, students answer this question with “I’m in college to get a good job.” This answer seems common in the United States today, yet surely there must be more to college than job training? Aren’t we more than our jobs? When our final hour comes, what will we be thankful we accomplished in our lives? What will we be sorry we didn’t?Perhaps a better question would be: If “job training” dominates, then money might be an important goal — maybe When the ancient Athenians conceived of the liberal arts education it was about building an informed and engaged Consider the contemporary liberal arts as the core of the university curriculum, usually housed within a college of Arts and Sciences: English, math, science, history, physical education, humanities, political science, psychology, philosophy. The liberal arts, then, provide the foundation for our later professional pursuits. In the eighteenth century, a student’s education was considered incomplete until he travelled on his own for at least a year. Travel — or getting out of one’s comfort zone — became an integral part of one’s formal study. Courses in the arts and sciences coupled with travel provide the student of the world with crucial experiences.The liberal arts emphasize variety and The liberal arts teach us not to take anything for granted — that if something is worth our time and devotion, it must endure continuous scrutiny in order to remain valid. In his novel Similarly, the American novelist Norman Mailer once wrote “there was that law of life so cruel and yet so just that one must grow or else pay more to remain the same.” The idea here seems to be that not engaging in meaningful dialog meant to help us grow, something within us ossifies; without challenges to our convictions, we grow hard, narrow, cold. No matter how good an idea is at one time, it must constantly be reassessed, or it can begin to trap us in prisons of our own making. The study of the liberal arts helps us to remain open to new ideas, skeptical of knee-jerk reactions, and critical of ideologies that attempt to control us.Standing in front of a college class, I often remark that the classroom itself is an exemplar of these ideas. Our classes here in central Georgia are heterogeneous mixes of gender, race, age, and experience. In my experience, I am unaware of any other place that has such a wonderful mixture of people and ideas. We all bring something unique to the university, and the classroom allows us the joy of encountering these perspectives in a safe way. Perhaps we can think of the classroom as a rehearsal for life.Yet, while the classroom is safe, it should also exemplify the challenge that the liberal arts have always offered: we must reasonably and logically defend our positions with provable facts if they are to remain valid. Belief takes a back seat to facts and the argument that wields them. Through language — grammar, rhetoric, logic, ethics — we make our points and defend them. This is what the liberal arts offers, and why it remains an important foundation for university studies and the world outside of the academy.Use the time you have in college to broaden your scope. I understand that we are all programmed to want to finish; we all seem to have this urgency to enter the workforce to earn our gold. Yet, I propose that college should be a time of discovery. It’s a place to slow down and take advantage of the unique environment. Take a course in astronomy and one in African-American literature; perhaps one in mythology, or anthropology. You might find that you have an interest and a talent you never knew. Immediately training for a career might not be the best approach to your college years.One final point: check our pride at the door. Over the last ten years, I have seen more eighteen-year-old students enter college with everything already figured out. Be open to the new — even the strange. I know this is a frightening proposition for many of us, but I promise that you will be the better for it. Life is not black and white; it is much more subtle and wonderful than that. Be open to new ideas: listen to your professors and the peers that you’ll meet. You might not always agree, but we should always take the time to consider. Education affords us this opportunity. The ideas you hear — or Never stop learning, even at the end of the world.English Professor  Digital Humanist; I teach literature, new media studies, and writing for digital media. The Editorial Page

Totally with you. Loved your builds, and agree, coming to alignment with what we all mean when we’re talking about innovation in education would help a whole lot of conversations. No doubt someone will create an app someday to reveal those diverse thought bubbles!At first, my inclination was to keep building our conversation into some grand theory of innovation in education… a set of 2x2s or a fancy spider chart that could knit the complex universe of possibilities into a handful of diagrams that might be useful to others. But there’s something I’m feeling stuck on, and I would be remiss if I didn’t discuss it with you.I find this word daunting, and worry that the fixation on scaled solutions might be the very reason why we’re struggling to see progress.Of course we’re impatient for change (the need is so big!), and we’re anxious for new answers that can transform learning across the country (or heck, even a district!) to help learners increase their life choices. Impatience is a worthy cause. I wonder, however, if we need to balance that with a bit of patience and empathy for how changes around us affect us.I can’t help but recall conversations I have had with academically successful students who chose to leave college, realizing they were there because they were told they had to be, not because they knew what it meant for them. I think about teachers who are unsure how the Common Core should affect their classrooms after 20 years of teaching. I remember those teachers who are more concerned, on a daily basis, with their students’ safety than their academics. I think of parents who humbly reveal the fear of not being able to help their kids because things (ok, math!) are being taught so differently now.I completely understand why you put aside the topic of creating innovators. One of the reasons, though, that we might be so fixated on “sharpening the pencil” as you mention, is that taking the leap into inventing whole new paradigms is a skill that has to be honed. And in my experience, it’s rare those skills are fostered (or even discussed) in education.Totally agree with your take on Khan Academy as radical, but I want to dig deeper to understand why. IMHO, it’s not necessarily because of the number of classrooms that it’s in. It’s a radical innovation because of the exponential value it has produced. In some ways, it is a modern lecture series with assignments. But underneath, they made an insightful and significant shift: they put the power in the learner’s hands. It lets learners go at their own pace, and look ahead into the future to get a sense of their development. Both the learner and the teacher can decide when, where, and how to use it. Sal Khan created a tool, not a mandate. People are using it — and more often the ideas behind it — in incredibly diverse ways.That, I believe, is what makes it so easy to call Khan Academy a radical innovation for our people-based system: it offers a flexibility that gives people the ability to change things up, in their context, in their way. It inspires the imagination for how learning can be different. Through countless studies and stories of use, it’s easy see how valuable it can be in many different contexts. (Even without those easy channels for distribution!) Perhaps it’s not the solution itself that’s so radical, as what it captured in our imagination, and what it catalyzed in our creativity.So the only answer I can really see to your question of scale is to get more people innovating, and get more people comfortable with change.How might we get further, faster?Incremental ← → radical, the how ← → the what, ground-up ← → top-down, small ← → large, … YES. All, please. We need something too about “type” of innovation (curriculum, experience, infrastructure, policy, etc… this is where the spider diagram could come in!).Yes to more systems that share the learnings about effective solutions (kudos on the “Example Engine”!), so that others see the value, are inspired to innovate in their own context… not just execute someone else’s answer. Shift our focus from distribution systems to inspiration systems. And recognize that scale may be achieved through larger concepts like personalized learning and Common Core that allow for huge varieties of implementation.What else can we do to BrightManaging Director, Education Innovation in Education

I recently did a “guest lecture” stint for an online course. It was done via the Blackboard platform, which felt old and clunky and was an overall frustrating experience.This is how my guest lecture was presented: Two essays and a powerpoint were posted up for review, and the 21 students in the course were then tasked with posting three questions each in the discussion board area.My job was to answer these questions via the “reply” function in said discussion board area.This is how a lot of online courses work, and that in and of itself is a problem. The students’ questions/comments and the instructor’s responses are siloed into a container that is isolated. Students are really only looking at the responses to the questions they posed. And even if they wanted to look at all the other questions and responses, it would be a pain via a discussion board experience, especially in a platform like Blackboard, which is antiquated and essentially a deeply flawed user experience, both for posting and viewing.Another issue is the time it actually takes to answer all these questions in written form. If this had been an in-person class, and I had spent just 3 minutes answering each question (3 questions X 21 students = 63 questions), it would have taken over three hours — that is not how in-person classrooms are run. Actually writing out responses to 63 written questions takes longer. To give the answers depth, and make the whole “discussion” worth it, you need to provide context and examples — and that’s not always going to just roll off the fingertips. It takes time and effort.At least in a live class, you know all the students are benefitting from the exchange. But in an antiquated, siloed discussion forum, it’s a totally inefficient learning exchange that in the end is unsatisfying for both the instructor, and more importantly, the students.While the questions from the students were decent, sometimes it felt as if they were simply phoned-in to fulfill the requirements of the assignment. I am sure part of this is just being uninspired by a platform that lacks any innovative solutions to fostering dialogue.Duplicate questions were also an issue. Totally understandable that several students would have similar lines of inquiry, but the platform didn’t have an easy way of allowing me to point to the place where a question was already addressed.One element of Blackboard that really annoyed me was how hard it was to simply create a link in the discussion board. In every response I was referring to multiple sites or articles — I would have to highlight the text, select the hyperlink option, wait for a pop-up box, fill in two fields, hit “Insert,” and then wait for the pop-up to close. Blackboard should be embarrassed about this — a learning platform that makes a basic tenet of digital interfacing unbearably inefficient is not worthy of use in any educational institution.I could go on and on. The short of it: learning management systems that employ antiquated discussion board forums to foster exchanges lack the functionality — and the vision — to offer a truly dynamic, engaging online learning experience.There is so much opportunity with online learning, and we clearly have a long way to go with making it a truly enriching experience even with the best of the online education platforms. Offering up a way to showcase a rolling dialogue based on a unique set of questions is a good place to start — One only needs to look at a Twitter chat, a QA via the Facebook Newsfeed, a Reddit AMA, or a Product Hunt QA to see that there are much better solutions than the tired old discussion board.Which online learning platforms are doing the best job of fostering online course engagement? I’m very interested in hearing about the more innovative platforms and online course strategies.— Learning to make, making to learn.

I don’t care that “they” want to teach common core in public schools.I don’t care that “they” cut back on things like music and theater in public schools.I don’t care that “they” think recess is less important than math.I care that there is a “they,” besides the actual customers that pay for educational services and products, who get to decide what constitutes a good education for everybody else.I care that our conventional approach to education is based on the premise that someone other than parents and their children knows what’s best for parents and their children.Human beings have always had diverse understandings regarding what it means to learn and what’s most important to study. Differences in educational philosophy aren’t the problem. Systems that refuse to respect and accommodate those differences are the problem.The people who exercise the most power in determining what children have to study are often the people who are the least affected by the real-world choices those children will have to grow up and make.What industry is capable of thriving without having the utmost regard for the preferences and priorities of the very people it serves? What business could possibly succeed by telling its customers that they are wrong for being bored and dissatisfied with their product?We spend so much time and money trying to figure out how to make students interested in topics they’re clearly not interested in learning. Perhaps we should make an equal investment towards questioning our own assumptions about what’s truly important. Children are naturally curious. In fact, children are almost annoyingly curious. They don’t stop asking questions until we indoctrinate them with our own ideas about what types of questions they ought to ask. Children are natural learners. They don’t lose their passion for learning until we extinguish it with our outdated, unquestioned, and unsubstantiated dogmas about what it “really” means to be informed.Before we start conditioning people to believe that their interests are irrelevant and irresponsible in relation to practical concerns, they’re already providing us with evidence that, to borrow the words of Grace Llewellyn, “learning was there all the time, happening by itself.”The question is not “How do we get people interested in education?”The question is “How do we stop destroying people’s innate sense of wonder?”Finding the answer is the most humbling part. It means we have to stop playing politics and start listening respectfully to the ones we’re trying to teach. Because no matter what your philosophy or pedigree is, you can’t teach someone unless you’re willing to let them teach you. Compulsory schooling is right in its assumption that education begins with the teacher. Unfortunately, it’s still confused over the issue of who should be teaching who.Education Director/Founding Team Member at Where unconventional paths in entrepreneurship, personal development, and education meet.

In October of 2009, Jim Shelton approached me with an idea. Jim was then assistant secretary at the Office of Innovation at the U.S. Department of Education, and I was in my second year as CEO of the Bill  Melinda Gates Foundation.The department wanted to launch a new initiative called the Investing in Innovation Fund, or i3, to cultivate promising ideas in education and to help proven concepts go to scale. The department would invite applicants to compete for grants, but with a catch: winners needed to secure up to a 15 percent private funding match before they could receive any Department of Education dollars. The department wanted to maximize the chances for i3 winners to find funders who would provide the matching funds, so Jim wanted to know if our team could help create a way for the winners to share their proposals with potential private funders.As Jim and I discussed the idea over the ensuing months, I became persuaded that the project offered an intriguing opportunity to promote something that can be surprisingly rare in education philanthropy: collaboration between funders who — although united by a dedication to provide young people with the highest quality education possible — often differ in their approaches and perspectives. The project also provided a chance to increase collaboration between philanthropy and government, which can also be elusive. That’s not to say that numerous and fruitful partnerships don’t occur, but the untapped opportunities for collaboration are considerable. i3 provided the impetus to shift the landscape.That is why the Bill  Melinda Gates Foundation and 12 of the nation’s largest education-focused philanthropies created The concept of an online submission process and collaboration platform was by no means groundbreaking when the site launched in 2010, but this was the first time this type of technology had been deployed for such a purpose at this scale. Indeed, collaboration on education innovation between that many funders and the government was unprecedented in any form — online or offline. The website now reaches more than 70 philanthropic organizations and has helped connect 81 i3 proposals with more than $83 million.In addition to the collaboration provided via the registry website, i3 offers an important lesson in catalytic philanthropy — the notion that private philanthropic dollars can help defray the inherent risk of innovation enough to encourage government and business investment. These sectors, although often equipped with the largest coffers, are understandably slowed at times by their fiduciary responsibility to taxpayers and investors. In contrast, philanthropy’s prioritization of mission over profit leaves us better positioned to take smart risks on promising but unproven innovations. If they fail, we learn and adapt. If they succeed, they offer a now-proven innovation primed for government and business support. Specific to i3, the private funding matching requirement provided a clear signal to DoE that philanthropy offered enough support to warrant the risk. Not only was the cumulative impact of our dollars greater, but no single organization carried the full burden of any investments that failed to meet expectations.I have questions today as I did in 2010 about the limitations of identifying innovation through a government RFP process. I don’t mean to imply that it hasn’t been done in the five years of i3 grants. On the contrary, you can read numerous success stories here on Medium. Nonetheless, I would contend that philanthropy’s greatest value-add is at the fuzzy front end of innovation where the promise of nascent ideas often isn’t quantifiable in even the best RFP. To be clear, i3 is an important and effective vehicle for encouraging innovation in our education system, but I hope that it doesn’t dissuade the philanthropic sector from looking even deeper into our schools for innovative models that may have slipped through the cracks or been excluded altogether from the i3 proposal process.Every sector has a unique role to play in strengthening our education system, but none can do it alone. Our differences in expertise, perspective and appetite for risk should be seen as an asset rather than points of division. i3 is one model for aligning them toward innovation, and its success the last five years should serve as the impetus for increased collaboration. It’s something we strive for now at the Co-founder, Raikes Foundation, 

“It is the assertion of this project that there is room in the academy for “While still the generators of Is that a good idea? “Not to become them”?Because I was writing this (in part) on Feb. 27, the day after “That starts with hiring, training and retaining I feel perplexed by the idea that writing for the Web is somehow different from “Great Web content is imbued with Not really very different from Note the use of the word “Each story is going to teach you how to report a story, what’s a fact, how to write a story, “There are newsrooms all over the place doing good work; we don’t have to invent them here. That could mean “I know of no other medium … where so much work is put into producing a product or service “There is today “[T]he [March] “The business model right now it is We are still throwing spaghetti against the wall to see what sticks, a full 20 years after the “Jessica Lessin says building community can also be about building profit. Founder of Journalists “not only don’t know what a business plan is, they don’t understand “Journalism education is That, we knew.“[A] digital-first school would foster the skills and habits of mind critical to journalism in the 21st century: “Today, many faculty acknowledge that it’s all but impossible to teach the tenets of a digital-first news culture “I worry because I see J-schools emphasizing “And so many other things! Teaching students “how to build websites” doesn’t correlate with real jobs in journalism either. One thing this report doesn’t discuss is that “the skills journalists need now” “Culturally, I think journalism schools have to think about “You can’t plant your flag in the old world and then add the digital stuff on after as a layer. It’s got to be “For some programs, a digital-first approach would refine rather than replace current practice. “[A] new and more focused accreditation process would provide substantive review of the extent to which [the j-schools are] meeting their goals. Like the current process, such a system would involve peer reviewers; unlike the more traditionally academic process, however, a professional accreditation process would engage a team of highly qualified digital-first journalists to help “Of A thought: Both my undergraduate institution (Penn State) and my grad school (The New School for Social Research) send me frequent postal mail and even call me on the phone (although I beg them to stop) asking for donations. In other words, they know where I am and how to reach me. Given that, Why don’t we If the j-schools are failing their graduates, surely this is the way to find out and raise the stakes for meaningful change.“The following three recommendations offer a practical, effective option for schools dedicated to preparing the next generation of digital-first journalists:Sarah Bartlett, dean of the CUNY Graduate School of Journalism, “And does achieving that mission in a digital age require “We all know that the greatest need right now is “It’s sort of like saying that to be a successful bus driver you have to be the mechanic. You don’t need to be the mechanic. Or that to be a successful pilot you have to be able to build the plane. You don’t need to know how to build the plane.” — Marty Baron (I’m not fond of Baron’s analogies. Journalists who work with code are “While everybody agrees that Others say “working journalists need to “Even the newsrooms that say they want tech-savvy journalists who know how to code don’t understand “All newsrooms are looking for journalists who “On the far end of the tech-essential spectrum are journalism nonprofits such as the Center for Public Integrity, the Center for Investigative Reporting and ProPublica, and for-profits like Narrative Science, which “We need more great writers, we need more great number crunchers, and we need more people who can “Now you’re being judged on metrics like “[T]here’s user “We have to restore some of the conversation about “We used to just do the journalism, and the business side will be taken care of. … That was “[J]ournalism remains “A free press is crucial as One person interviewed said journalism organizations should focus on these, and make them priorities. I found these very interesting, but they were only mentioned in the report, not expanded upon.— Jeffrey Rutenbeck, dean of the School of Communication at American University (Dianne Lynch, author of the report, wrote: “My takeaway from six months of listening is that the common concerns of professionals and academics alike can, in large part, be attributed to “Importantly, I think a lot of people, myself included, hoped this report would offer more of a blueprint, road map, or outline of how to transform the j-school. Not ““Such a digital-first school would define success in terms of Online journalism professor, University of Florida. Always doing some kind of journalism training, somewhere in the world. Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

There will always be a place for academic publishing in education. We need rigorous research to drive insights and innovation; this is a fundamental fact. We also have Blogger/Wordpress, Twitter, Facebook, and community sites like Edutopia acting as communication vehicles for teachers, thought-leaders, and more. There are quality news outlets like EdWeek, The Chronicle of Higher Education, and EdSurge as well.Why would we need anything else?The internet was originally built as a broadcast tool, with all forms of interaction — mostly reverse-chronology comment boards — created as a bolt-on to that architecture.It’s an ambitious task, but we have some of the best engineers and designers in the world making it happen: before Medium, our founder Ev created Blogger and Twitter. He lays out our vision here:Education as a sector is more interconnected and interdependent with other industries than at any other time in history. A sole focus on peer-reviewed journals, trade publications, insider conferences and one-off op-eds will diminish the sectors’ influence and leave us behind the conversation instead of driving it.Alternatively, a connection to rapidly evolving, adjacent networks — edtech, consumer tech, venture capital, neuroscience, data science, behavioral economics, design thinking, civil liberties, gender politics, and the school-to-prison pipeline as examples — will enable and accelerate the design, development and deployment of the innovation we wish to see.Take teachers as an example.Never before have teachers needed a more diverse skill set than today. To be effective in the classroom teachers are taking on multiple roles: data scientist, social worker, technologist, and entrepreneur. Some say they’re already acting like We’re designing a system that will enable big players in the sector to share a broader view and build on others’ ideas within their field, while inviting adjacent communities to participate in the dialogue.A few recent examples of responses/builds/reactions, some within education and others from beyond:The education sector more broadly is rapidly growing on Medium, with a sampling of organizations and/or leaders from them below. We also have a number of publications running, like What’s just as relevant are the other areas thriving on Medium: politics and policy, activism and authors, startups and venture capital, design and social impact.Medium has made a conscious decision to focus on the education community because we believe in the impact it will have in the world.We know you share this belief.Let’s act on it together.a guy who does stuff 

Yesterday in a math classroom in South Carolina, a White police officer grabbed a Black girl by the neck, violently flipped her out of her chair, dragged her across the room, and arrested her.As I watched the video this morning, an all too familiar feeling came over me. The world became quiet and I was suddenly aware of my ever-quickening heartbeat. My throat closed up. I brought my shaking hands to my keyboard to stop the video from autoplaying again, and while doing so the air felt heavy.So many fragmented, incoherent thoughts rushed through my head at once. I sat on my couch motionless for a few minutes while the initial numbness turned to anger. I went to Facebook to draft yet another enraged post, and I saw that a good friend, one of the most articulate people I know, posted a link to the video, and simply said “I can’t.”I started thinking about all of the I have dedicated the last 5 years of my life to trying to do one simple and yet elusive thing: help students love math. After seeing students from Spring Valley High School avert their eyes to the violence because it was so uncomfortable to watch, I thought about the I can’t understand how most of the people in my world, people in the “education field” don’t see this as the most pressing issue we will ever face.While hundreds of millions of dollars are being poured into education reform, into the political fight between public schools and charters, into painting teachers as the solution or the enemy, we rarely talk about the true lived experience of students.We seldom think about the moments that shape students for the rest of their lives. These moments are never about which Common Core standards they did or did not master, they are not about whether or not their school employed union teachers, or how much of their budget was spent on administrative overhead, they are created by experiences that validate them as worthy and capable human beings or devalue them.The task of protecting, nurturing, and valuing young people must be taken on by everyone, regardless of political affiliation or ideology, because our kids deserve it and the future of our society rests upon it.Social Entrepreneur. Education Lover. Sports Enthusiast. Adventurer. Student of the game.

“Once upon a time, there were physical CDs. The order of each song mattered, for the album was often played as an uninterrupted piece. Then came the computer and music became digital. You could play all your songs in the order you wanted and easily create compilations based on your musical taste. Then came the Internet and it all became messy. Streamed, remixed, compiled, Music was everywhere and listeners could seamlessly interact with it.Once upon a time in a parallel world, there were physical classrooms and teachers. The latter had a standard curriculum to deliver to their classes and students’ interests couldn’t really be integrated. Then came the Internet. Whenever, students could also take classes online, thus joining worldwide cohorts through “Massive Open Online Courses” (MOOCs). Everything became possible.”The digitalization of education seems to be going the same way the music industry went a decade ago ; as it gets further digitalized, content becomes more accessible, and subsequently, customizable.What is a music album? It’s is a thoughtful combination of sound and meaning crafted by an artist. Here’s the full (Labels (What do MOOCs and music albums have in common? With MOOCs, materials are freely available, which creates the opportunity for students to browse, pick and choose content. You can now tune in and get value from part of the whole course with less friction.2011 was a turning point in education. Stanford University offered three courses that gathered more than 100,000 learners, thus kickstarting the beginning of the “instructor-directed MOOC” age. However, class content within a course remained the same for all learners. Perhaps MOOCs can draw inspiration from the digital music revolution, and help learners curate their desired content, exactly the way you decide to focus on only a few songs in a music album. How about allowing students to keep only what they like/need/want?MOOCs provide a great opportunity for learning, for nearly no cost. Yet, they are still a monolithic learning system: MOOCs will let you access content you don’t necessarily need, in a way you don’t necessarily embrace, at a pace you don’t necessarily want. If you compare MOOC to a brick wall, they are perfect for breaking into smaller pieces and rearranging them to suit your desired learning path.What could be the next steps for MOOCs (in a “School-to-Private Learner” perspective) ? A few months ago, Linkedin bought Lynda, a massive e-learning platform. I’m both excited and confident about their shared future. Education Entrepreneur ( based on a 10-country exploration) // ex-Executive Head of Entrepreneurship Center 

To bridge the gap between industry best practices and what’s taught in academia we plan to have As students near graduation, this can also help expose and prepare them for the thousands of opportunities in tech companies in Silicon Valley as well as other tech hubs. However, this program is not just for existing computer science students. We believe that introducing technology through building web and mobile apps will attract a diverse population who had not previously considered computer science.By the time I entered college as a Computer Engineering major, a nerd father, nerd summer camps, and years of nerd training prepared me well for my freshman year. With several programming languages under my belt, I felt at ease in the early logic and algorithm classes. And yet, in 1999, I had a vague sense that I was on the sidelines as my more adventurous friends were tackling PHP and throwing around words like “shopping cart” and “session cookies”. By the time I decided to explore more, it seemed like the crowd had already moved on to Cold Fusion and ASP. I still remember the general sense of frustration and confusion I felt after graduation as I was trying to understand the actual technical landscape that was so different from my textbooks.This is not a condemnation of computer science programs. Critics of traditional degree programs will sometimes cite the fact that, in practice, most programmers don’t write compilers or operating systems or rebalance binary trees or route through graphs. While it’s true that web and mobile apps require a completely different set of tasks, I don’t regret learning the fundamentals. You can be a successful car mechanic without ever learning about the principles of combustion or aerodynamics, but you’ll probably never build your own race car.However, there is a distinct gap between what’s taught in school and what’s practiced in industry. Our courses are designed to run in conjunction with university programs and bridge that gap. As students prepare for the transition into industry, the practical skills we give them will open thousands of doors. On the flip side, companies spend millions on university recruiting, focusing on only the top 50 schools and running interview drills that they know to be imperfect assessments. We hope that our program will pave the way for students from thousands of colleges and universities to discover and prepare for the opportunities they’re looking for.Earlier this year, we ran our first university class in iOS development for a group of 20 Stanford students sponsored by This program is not just for senior computer science students. Over the past few years, we’ve run an extremely successful program teaching designers how to build native mobile apps that was initially created for Facebook. Even though the designers have limited or no programming experience, they’re driven to create the apps they can see in their imagination. The class isn’t just about building apps like the one shown below. Designers gain confidence in their ability to pursue their own ideas, can work more seamlessly with engineers, and earn greater respect from their more technical peers.Teaching designers successfully has helped us confirm that programming can be learned relatively quickly even by those with no prior experience. Unfortunately, in many universities there is a belief that only those who have been programming since childhood or with exceptional abilities in math or logic can learn new languages in a reasonable timeline. Furthermore, programming is rarely thought of as a field for those seeking to express creativity in their work.Most non-technical people are puzzled when programmers refer to themselves as the creative type or go on about the joys of seeing their ideas come to life. It doesn’t help that most introductory programming courses emphasize that the field is only for the ‘logical’ and the ‘gifted’. It’s no wonder that most creative, intelligent young people steer clear of dreary computer science classes. We believe that a big part of the achievement gap in programming is in fact a motivation gap. By motivating students with a clear vision of the things they can create, they’ll be inspired to learn more and to get through the difficult parts of the learning process. We’re in the early days of our university program, but we’re excited by the impact that we’ll have in this community and beyond.For more information on the CodePath University, visit CodePath has created a better way for students to learn and teachers to teach by applying the power of Open Source to education.

One of the most common ways to criticize our current system of education is to suggest that it’s based on a “factory model.” An alternative condemnation: “industrial era.” The implication is the same: schools are woefully outmoded.I’d like to add: there’s nothing especially The “factory model of education” is invoked as shorthand for the flaws in today’s schools — flaws that can be addressed by new technologies or by new policies, depending on who’s telling the story. The “factory model” is also shorthand for the history of public education itself — the development of and change in the school system (or — purportedly — the lack thereof).Here’s one version of events offered by Khan Academy’s Sal Khan along with Forbes’ writer Michael Noer — “the history of education”:Khan’s story bears many of the markers of the invented history of the “factory model of education” — buckets, assembly lines, age-based cohorts, whole class instruction, standardization, Prussia, Horace Mann, and a system that has not changed in 120 years.There are several errors and omissions in Khan’s history. (In his defense, it’s only eleven and a half minutes long.) There were laws on the books in Colonial America, for example, demanding children be educated (although not that schools be established). There was free public education in the US too prior to Horace Mann’s introduction of the “Prussian model” — the so-called “charity schools.” There were other, competing models for arranging classrooms and instruction as well, notably the “The standardization of public education into a “factory model” — hell, the whole history of education itself — was nowhere as smooth or coherent as Khan’s simple timeline would suggest. There were vast differences between public education in Mann’s home state of Massachusetts and in the rest of the country — in the South before and after the Civil War no doubt, as in the expanding West. And there have always been objections from multiple quarters, particularly from religious groups, to the shape that schooling has taken.Arguments over what public education should look like and what purpose public education should serve — God, country, community, the economy, the self — are not new. These battles have persisted — frequently with hand-wringing about education’s ongoing failures — and as such, they have shaped Sal Khan is hardly the only one who tells a story of “the factory of model of education” that posits the United States adopted Prussia’s school system in order to create a compliant populace. It’s a story cited by homeschoolers and by libertarians. It’s a story told by John Taylor Gatto in his 2009 book For what it’s worth, Prussia was not highly industrialized when Frederick the Great formalized its education system in the late 1700s. (Very few places in the world were back then.) Training future factory workers, docile or not, was not really the point.Nevertheless industrialization is often touted as both the model and the rationale for the public education system past and present. And by extension, it’s part of a narrative that now contends that schools are no longer equipped to address the needs of a Perhaps the best known and most influential example of this argument comes from Alvin Toffler who decried the “Industrial Era School” in his 1970 book Despite these accounts offered by Toffler, Brooks, Khan, Gatto, and others, the history of schools doesn’t map so neatly onto the history of factories (and visa versa). As Dorn notes, phrases like “the industrial model of education,” “the factory model of education,” and “the Prussian model of education” are used as a “rhetorical foil” in order make a particular political point — not so much to explain the history of education, as to try to shape its future.It’s tempting to say that those who argue that today’s schools are fashioned on nineteenth century factories have never read much about the Industrial Revolution. (Frederick Engels’ In fact, the “Prussian model” superseded an education system that actually Khan argues in his “History of Education” video that the Prussian model was the only way to provide a free public education, but as the widespread popularity of the monitorial system in the same period demonstrates, it was really just In his book In other words, the monitorial system expressly operated like a factory. “Industry” here isn’t simply a reference to manufacturing or production; “industry” is the opposite of “idleness.” To counter idleness, students must be taught to work — and the functioning of the classroom should be like a machine.But as Frederick John Gladman’s manual on education According to Gladman, the Lancaster system was replaced by the Glasgow system, developed by David Stow, which emphasized the training of teachers so as to “cultivate the whole nature of the child, instead of the mere head — the affections and habits, as well as the intellect.” Training of teachers was necessary, Gladman contended, as “it is useless to have the machinery without the skilled workman, or the well-trained workman without the suitable premises.”Similarly, the Prussian model was based on the training of teachers. As Victor Cousin wrote in his Caulfield concludes, “That is those nasty sounding Prussians agreeing with the somewhat less nasty sounding Glasweegians that education must be reformed because it works too much like a factory. And the way to make it less like a factory is to bring in the expertise of a craftsman, in this case, the trained teachers that were the heart of the Mannian, Glasgow, and Prussian systems.”Many education reformers today denounce the “factory model of education” with an appeal to new machinery and new practices that will supposedly modernize the system. That argument is now Pressey, much like Sal Khan and other education technologists today, believed that teaching machines could personalize and “revolutionize” education by allowing students to move at their own pace through the curriculum. The automation of the menial tasks of instruction would enable education to scale, Pressey — presaging MOOC proponents — asserted.We tend to not see automation today as And so too we’ve invented a history of “the factory model of education” in order to justify an “upgrade” — to new software and hardware that will do much of the same thing schools have done for generations now, just (supposedly) more efficiently, with control moved out of the hands of labor (teachers) and into the hands of a new class of engineers, out of the realm of the government and into the realm of the market.education writer, recovering academic, serial dropout, ed-tech’s Cassandra, author of The Monsters of Education Technology. (And coming soon: Teaching Machines)Essays on the history of ed-tech

Ta-Nehisi Coates’s much-discussed new book — in form, a letter addressed to his young son — pushes back against the dominant narrative of race and racism in the United States:Throughout the book, Coates reflects on his own intellectual coming-of-age as a black man in a white supremacist society in order to impart wisdom to his son and by extension (it is a book after all, not a private letter), a new generation.In recounting his own experiences growing up black in the US, Coates attempts to further expose the mechanisms of institutional racism which would seek to obscure their own function (‘…there exists, all around us, an apparatus urging us to accept American innocence at face value and not to inquire too much’ (8).)Of course, institutional racism requires that people do not inquire much at all.Coates recounts being a young man in West Baltimore:As educators, we would agree that school But we read —This resentment is easy to understand. Coates recalls:The reality is when we get beyond the caricatures of racism projected by a colorblind ideology, the simplistic notion that one individual is doing something mean (and, in the white imagination, inexplicable, isolated from any broader institutional pattern), when we start to probe the institutions that ensure the perpetuation of injustice, we realize that education, as an institution, is seriously implicated.Coates reflects on his experience from a distance, and shines light on how this happens:Crucial to Coates’s personal and intellectual development is his mother teaching him to write, as he says, “…by which I mean not simply organizing a set of sentences into a series of paragraphs, but organizing them as a means of investigation.” Coates calls his early writing, “…the earliest acts of interrogation, of drawing myself into consciousness. Your grandmother was not teaching me how to behave in class. She was teaching me how to ruthlessly interrogate the subject that elicited the most sympathy and rationalizing — myself.” (29).That is what writing is and this is what writing does. This is the meaning of writing, and precisely why we teach it in school: The development of voice. The courage and confidence to ask real questions of import and urgency. An active engagement with a multiplicity of narratives. A dialogic relationship between curriculum, text, and self.Yet, how many students, like Coates, learn writing merely as decontextualized grammar and mechanics? Experience school as a transmission of predetermined facts from an authority figure, the nature of the authority itself suspect?Like writing, books were crucial to Coates’s self-education:He turns to books to pursue these questions. Books “about black people, by black people” serve as a mirror, that reflect the stories that were (and too often are) left out of a curriculum ultimately designed to pacify and oppress.These books, his father’s books, provided context and perspective from which to reflect on other images of black people projected each Black History Month in school:As Coates pursues his questions, synthesizes diverse perspectives, and reflects, new insights come into focus:The American Dream. A dream deferred. Dr. King’s dream. Coates explicitly rejects this mode of seeing, the Grand Narrative. Particularly when the narrative is wielded to exonerate. This is a politics that rejects innocence and amnesia. That forces an historical reckoning.The work is a celebration of true education — inquiry over dogma, questioning and reflecting over pat answers. Stance. Narrative. Argument and evidence. Empathy and action.Coates’s may be a particularly important voice for white, middle class teachers who are grappling with questions of racism and injustice. His experiences reflect a school system that ultimately emphasized blind obedience over learning and curiosity, and privileged the prerogatives of the institution over the student as learner and individual. As educators, we must reflect on our own roles in this injustice.High school English teacher by profession  vocation. Committed creator, writer, traveler. Lover of cats, cat vids. Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

What is education? What, exactly, is an educated person? There has been much screaming in the public square about education, but what are we really talking about? Intelligence, competence, common sense? Knowledge and wisdom? Book learning? And is learning ever really complete? It seems, to me, that the richest lives are marked by an endless quest for knowledge and learning. Oxford tells us that education is, Educator E.D. Hirsch believes that there is a specific body of knowledge that, when digested, confers a proper education. This is his “Core Knowledge” principle and it has become quite popular and respected among educators of all stripes. Its cousin, the “Common Core Standards”, has been adopted by most of the country and is getting loud, and not always friendly, press. This program dictates what every child “needs” to know, within a very specific, narrowly defined and rigorously measured curricular structure. Everyone receives the same, standardized dose of instruction meant to build an educated citizen. If a child does not master designated skills within a deadline, that child is deemed “behind”, maybe even “slow”, a reductionist and arbitrary result, bolstering the corporate standardization of knowledge.What do we Many of us, myself included, did very well at a mediocre American public school. It seemed, to my young mind, a colossal waste of time — an eternity stewing in a mind-numbing prison where, I honestly believe, I learned very little of real value. In elementary school, I learned to read and write and do basic math — all valuable and arguably necessary. But once those skills were mastered, the repetition and boredom were staggering while curiosity and creativity were largely squelched. I, like so many others, digested and regurgitated supposed facts for the purpose of measuring my education, all the while deleting the uninteresting bits — that is to say, most. History — Sorting through today’s educational choices is a daunting and byzantine task. Throughout 25 years and four kids, I’ve tried just about everything. We’ve been to public elementary and high school (middle school is a lower rung of hell), a charter high school, community college, and private four-year college. We’ve done Waldorf, nursery schools, and a parent-run homeschool co-op that looked like a messy playgroup with swipes at academic pretension. Internships and jobs, volunteer work and community classes — you name it, we’ve done it (except private school — can anyone really afford that anymore?). We’ve settled on, and had the most success with, homeschooling.What have I gleaned from this chaotic existence? Many things — curricula are arbitrary and dull (and not always correct or reliable), testing is a virtually meaningless exercise, steeped in stress and competition, built to serve business and government (Core Standards, anyone?). Most public schools spend enormous chunks of time managing and herding their charges. Recess and the arts have been cut to bleeding. Children desperately need to play — every day, for years. They need to get outside and they need plenty of unstructured time. The arts are vital. Surround them with music, art supplies and, especially, books — stacks and stacks in every room. Reading should be a pleasure, therefore they should read what they want. They gave me Homeschooling is, by turns, brilliant and boring. We’ve managed thrilling successes and crashing mediocrity, periods of exalted inspiration and bouts of profound laziness. I have rules, I get frustrated, it has been overwhelming at times. I’ve had mixed results with various educational approaches and four different learning styles, one for each kid — one size does not fit all, despite the classroom model. The socialization myth — you’ve heard it, homeschoolers don’t have friends, don’t know how to live in the real world — is moronic. My biggest challenge has been to manage too many social opportunities and “real world” activities. Sports, music lessons, art classes, book clubs, camps, dances, potlucks, concerts, parties, plays — on and on. Years have been trimmed from my life ferrying four maniacs over hill and dale to fulfill their socialization needs. The beautiful thing, though, has been the flexibility. Flexibility to change anything that’s not working, to travel and explore new territory, literally and figuratively, and to constantly question. And the experiment has been validated over and over again.Each one of my kids felt the need to try school in their teens — the oldest and youngest went to 9th grade at the local public school, the second to community college at 16 and the third to a charter school in 10th grade. Every time I worried — hand-wringing, heart-thumping, no sleep kind of worry. Will they be okay? How far behind are they? And each one ended up shining, almost immediately (once they figured out the structure of the thing — schedules, lockers, social politics) — ahead of the crowd academically, favorites of the teachers, and socially adept. I have to admit I was shocked — pleasantly so, of course, but how was it that the school kids had been sitting in classes for a decade while mine were home — doing seemingly very little, at times — and yet they were still able to slide in, very late, and thrive? It’s not because we’re smarter, trust me. We are undeniably normal.My kids are bright and capable, but not because of anything I “taught” them. Perhaps it has more to do with the time and the space that they’ve had to just think and grow — and I have a good friend, an esteemed college professor, who has said that he spends most of freshman year trying to “undo the damage” of high school. He says that these kids don’t know how to think — they know how to “do school”. They approach him at the beginning of the semester, in droves, asking, “The world educates us as no schoolhouse can. I know some cherish their early schooling — most of them went to innovative private schools. But for the vast majority of us, the real learning starts the day we walk away — regardless of when that happens. We take jobs and internships, learn to navigate the world, maybe try higher education, where we have choices and professors who hopefully have passion for their specialties. These days, technology provides us the ability to learn just about anything with the stroke of a finger. It has laid the world at our feet, if we know how to use it.I’m not on a crusade, though I believe that American public schools are usually mediocre, at best. This education crisis of ours is a complex and multi-faceted monster with many heads — political and economical, sociological and psychological, with national, local, and personal implications. I don’t have answers and I don’t believe the answers are the same for everyone. I recognize how lucky I am to have had the opportunity to stay at home with my kids and I know that homeschooling isn’t for everyone (it wasn’t always great for me, honestly). But we do need to rethink the way we ‘educate’ the masses, why, and what it even means. We need to find ways to give young people the space and the time to nurture curiosity, the engine that drives all human intelligence. The future requires thinkers, people who are creative, curious, and bold enough to dream up the new — because the old is just not working anymore.Write it down.Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

When most people think of refugee camps, their first mental images are of people living temporarily in inadequate tents. What we don’t usually realize is that families can live for years on end in settlement camps. And during that time, life continues. Babies learn to walk. Feisty children grow into rebellious teenagers.Education is usually among the first casualties of sustained conflict. The international focus often moves on to the next conflict, leaving a massive skills and knowledge void in its wake. Children out of school are vulnerable to the influence of extremism, criminal behavior, and other forms of exploitation. Many host governments are stretched to the limits in their ability to absorb refugee students into already-struggling education systems.The threat of an educational void is becoming abundantly clear in places like Syria. Of the hundreds of thousands who have fled the country, nearly half are not receiving any education at all. In Lebanon, there are more school-age refugees than public school students. Sadly, it’s a similar situation in nearby Jordan and Iraq.Education assistance needs to be rapidly deployable but without compromising on quality. Refugee camps and host communities need easily accessible materials and low- or no-cost tools for education that work in challenging settings. Thankfully, some organisations are beginning to lead the way.UNICEF helped more than 375,000 Syrian children last year access formal and informal education. In Jordan, staff and volunteers from Save the Children are creating specialized teacher training and support programs for those operating in conflict regions. These sessions equip teachers with an entirely new way of approaching lesson plans, homework, and grading.Most importantly, refugee-specific education can be delivered without traditional classroom tools. Because students in refugee situations have unpredictable living situations, teachers work from condensed, modified curriculum, written to be delivered quickly and affordably. Mobile teaching resources can be vital when communication and normal delivery methods are limited by circumstance.In 2015, the UN is examining where focus must go following the expiration of the Millennium Development Goals, and education will surely be among the priorities for the new Sustainable Development Goals. Luckily, several governments are already supporting the effort. The UK Department for International Development has committed more than £800m — the UK’s largest ever response to any humanitarian crisis. And the United States Agency for International Development, between 2012 and 2015, donated $570m to help Syrian refugees. This is all much-needed support. More governments, NGOs, and companies can play a significant role in improving access to education in these settings.Abu Mohamad, a Syrian refugee, recently told his story to CNN about small businesses in refugee camps. He had started a pizza delivery service for other refugees and aid workers living in his camp. “I couldn’t sit and wait for the situation to change,” he said. “We always want more for our families.” But not everyone is an entrepreneur, particularly the many young children who lack access to basic education.Regardless of one’s early life experiences, everyone deserves a chance to become a fully productive member of society. Let’s work together to change those odds for some of the world’s most vulnerable citizens.BrightI’m the chief executive of Innovation in Education

Inspired by BeardedTeacher — CA to SC | MS Teacher | PhD Student A collection of awesome stories about education on Medium.com

By Nathan Bernard, CEO, LrnOver the last several months my co-founder Chirag and I have spent a lot of time thinking about micro-learning as we build our startup, Micro-learning is learning in short, focused bursts of information. For example, a typical micro-learning activity could be viewing a flashcard, memorizing a word, listening to a short podcast, watching a brief video or answering a series of questions in a quiz.There are several key trends that are driving micro-learning adoption. Here are a few of them:2. 3.4. There are also several highly successful mobile micro-learning apps, you may just not think of them as “micro-learning.”There is 2013 iOS app of the year, There is There is We have built our own application, Micro-learning is going to be big. With the support of companies like Google  rapid mobile adoption it is clear micro-learning can become widely adopted. We hope to contribute to this movement with Thanks for reading  you can check out our app here if you’re interested:Learn to code at your convenience, on your phone!

As Tom Clynes’ piece rightly points out in his story about Taylor Wilson, the “beneficiaries” of gifted education tend to be the children of “advantaged” parents — meaning white, highly educated, and high-earning parents. According to the In New York City, a In the context of one of the most segregated school districts in the country, using school-within-school GT programs to attract white, higher income parents to the public system can have the positive benefit of desegregating schools at the Some efforts are being expended to try to improve the composition of students in gifted education programs. For instance, the DOE has focused on trying to increase the enrollment of low-income children of color who are underrepresented in gifted programs by changing the GT admissions test. But in the end, tweaking the test to make it harder for advantaged children does little to change the outcomes, because relying on a standardized test — any test — is going to result in a skewed result given the close correlation between race and class and testing.So much of this, though, is only scratching the surface of these issues. We need to go much deeper — we need to examine the ways in which “giftedness” is ultimately a socially constructed category, particularly within the context of segregated schools and programs in NYC and the reality of so many anxious parents, who are doing whatever they can to provide their children the best education possible within a constrained school choice environment.For my forthcoming There are few who would contest that segregation in NYC schools is being exacerbated by gifted programs. Policymakers, school leaders, and parents must do more than simply There are alternative, more inclusive GT models that we should adopt that are reported to be more successful and more equitable because they target instruction to each individual child and set high expectations for all students. If we want to reduce segregation in schools that GT programs perpetuate, we should be looking to some of these models such as Our children today need to be given the tools and resources to develop their own unique gifts and talents in diverse schools and learning environments. By phasing school-within-school GT programs out, we can move one step closer to the goal of equal educational opportunity for all.Post-doc, Institute on Education Law and Policy.  Public School Advocate and Parent.  Author of Inequality in Gifted and Talented Programs, Forthcoming 10/22/15Innovation in Education

Last Monday I popped down to the bookstore below the My informants were correct: I was convinced I needed to read this book. So while all the adults lined up to get their shiny new translations signed, I popped back upstairs and borrowed the second edition of the book, A week later I find myself with a good understanding on why I am so lucky to be a Finn and specifically a Finn starting her teacher studies in just two weeks. I am gratified to find that Sahlberg paints a threatening picture of the Global Education Reform Movement or GERM, which has been making the rounds during the past few decades. Finland was not interested and stuck to its equitable, trusting school system, but the GERMists were gaining ground, haranguing for efficiency and accountability. Just in time, PISA rode in and silenced the opposition with the glorious scores of 2000.Sahlberg defines the key differences between GERM and the Finnish Model as these:Another trump card of the Finnish Model is the wide access to special education and a preference for preemptive interventions. This means a fourth of the student population receives some kind of support during their education.While it’s been quite a while since I’ve mathed last, this seems to make sense. The best way to raise an overall average isn’t to add to the top scores, but add to the lowest scores. Taking resources away from the lowest-performing percentiles and giving them to the highest-performing percentiles in a system seems like a good way to ensure that there will be some extra weight on the system down the road.In Finnish primary schools, each class is assigned their own teacher, sometimes for the complete six years, but from the seventh grade onwards each subject is taught by a specialist in that subject. Primary school teachers major in pedagogy, while secondary school teachers have a minor in teacher studies and a major in one of the subjects they teach. My major in Comparative Literature and a minor in Finnish Language makes me a future Finnish teacher, and my additional minor in English Translation gives me the option of also teaching English. Teacher studies will only take about one year of my 5+ years in university.It is no surprise then, that this part jumped out at me:My own fear is that a year of pedagogical studies and practical experience is a very short time to cram in all the different things a teacher will need. Lucky for me (and my possible future students), I have enough internal motivation to read books like The Education Reform of the 1970s that created Is this even possible? How can you convince me, a child of the 21st century with a complex cultural identity, fluent in the feminist, pop culture-infused language of the internets, steeped in individualism and privilege to agree to a national goal most likely decided upon by old white men?Erkki Aho, one of the masterminds behind I can get behind that.Stories from the Finnish teacher incubator, rumoured to be the best in the world.Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

When I entered the field of online higher education way, way back in the dark ages of 1997, the first 56.6 kbps modems were just starting to appear in homes. Online enrolment was a fraction of what it is today. The push to grow online learning was largely faculty-led; few university Strategic Plans included more than a passing reference to online education.Today, of course, we’re accustomed to reading breathless editorials in mass-market publications like the New York Times about the disruptive power of online learning. University Presidents tell us that online education is a “game changer”. Public intellectuals like Clay Shirky explain that technology is bringing an end to business as usual for higher ed, just as it has for newspapers and the music industry.Yet in the midst of all this talk of upheaval, one aspect of online higher education has remained virtually unchanged since the 1990s: the way that traditional colleges and universities go about designing, creating, and financing in-house online course development.Now, as in 1997, individual instructors assume the bulk of the responsibility for course design and development. Support is now often available from an instructional designer and technical staff, but their impact is limited by workplace conventions that encourage faculty to work alone (and staff to let them). Funds for course development are similarly constrained, due to the conventional notion/practice that course materials should be built for use only within the institution from which they came.While this model of course development may work for classroom education (where the organizational and financial model originated), it places severe limitations on the kinds of digital learning experiences that committed educators can make available to their online students.Development of more sophisticated forms of digital learning such as personalized instruction driven by analytics, immersive gaming, or the use of rich media, to name but a few possibilities, require a team of specialists, longer development schedules, and considerably more funding than is available in the current approach. Placing the burden on lone educators with minuscule (or non-existent) funding and who are not hired for their strengths in instructional media development is neither logical, nor fair. But more to the point, it’s a lost opportunity to leverage high-quality course design to drive improvements in learning outcomes.As a result, students across North America are frequently presented with online courses consisting of repurposed classroom PowerPoint slides, home-made graphics, and an incoherent pastiche of free content from the Net — each element developed for different purposes and pitched at different levels. Worst of all, these online learning experiences are being developed without deep knowledge of the science of how people actually learn most effectively — knowledge, ironically, that universities themselves have generated.By simply transferring the existing roles, responsibilities and financial model to the online context allowed institutions to quickly “put courses online”. It made the migration to online education relatively painless for the institution, but maintenance of this approach has ultimately limited our capacity to offer our students a more thoughtfully crafted, rigorously developed online course experience.The classroom style approach to developing online courses took hold not because we thought it was the best way to create a great online learning experience for students, but for the simple fact that it fit with the institution’s existing structure, processes, and culture — all of which are derived from the deeply engrained logic of the classroom model. Nor is the endurance of the classroom model due to the fact that we tried new approaches and found them wanting. There have been great breakthroughs in using new course design strategies by a handful of innovative organizations. Extensive evaluations of Carnegie Mellon University’s “Open Learning Initiative” — from which my organization, Of course, not all aspects of online course design require a team of specialists, a longer development time, and more funding. Some things can be done quickly, cheaply and by individuals with focused skill sets. But those types of instructional materials are not the problem — we’ve got that well in-hand. The challenge now is to find ways for our colleges and universities to build and access those types of instructional experiences that take fuller advantage of the Net’s unique properties to combine data, interaction, media and rigorous instructional design.We know, for example, that students benefit from having regular opportunities to apply their knowledge as they are learn and then to receive immediate, meaningful feedback on their efforts. But, of course, it’s not possible for lone instructors to produce hundreds of learning activities for each course using the common approach to course design. And it’s even less feasible for the instructor to provide feedback to each and every student in real-time. Similarly, we know that students come to us with very different cognitive and educational baggage; educators have little opportunity to identify and respond to these differences.But technology can, when built with a deep understanding of how students learn, meet both of these needs. We can build online courses that provide students with hundreds of opportunities to test their knowledge. Using scientifically-based learning analytics, we can provide each learner with immediate, context-specific feedback. We can build software that constantly responds to each student’s cognitive and educational differences and serves up activities that address these differences.These kinds of learning tools take time, money and talent to create. They can’t be put together a few weeks before classes start. If we’re going to take online education seriously, we need to take course design seriously. We need to start imagining new models for building, acquiring and sharing new and better kinds of instructional media.Advisor to institutions and companies in online higher education.Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

I recently read This got me thinking about Malcolm Gladwell’s 10,000 hours rule. For those of you who don’t know about the rule — in his book When I overlay both ideas, I conclude that in order for someone to become an expert at something he must be genuinely interested in it. Sounds clichéd right. Think a bit deeper. What would drive this interest? Curiosity? And what drives curiosity? Is it imagination, knowledge, observation or the environment?Think about this — What would inspire a 5 year old Tendulkar to be interested in cricket? Or what would inspire a 5 year old Mozart to play piano? Or a writer to learn more about writing or a mathematician to be genuinely interested in maths?The key is to find the source of this drive that pushes a normal person to first identify his genuine interest and then pursue it with a fanatic intensity without loss of interest or vigor. When pursued over an extended period of time — 10,000 hours as per Gladwell — the person gains an intuitive understanding of his interest as he knows the depth of his subject. This expertise might enable him to contribute new ideas to his domain and push the boundaries of possibility.It is important to find the source of this drive because I believe that it cannot be emulated. And this is the flipside of our modern education system. Let’s look briefly at how our education system works:- It starts with children being taught the basics of communication and moves on to explain them key concepts about the world- Science  Mathematics are introduced gradually so the children know that the world works on certain basic laws and they as individuals can influence their environment- They are then exposed to their origins, their history, their place in the world, their nationality and the various social, political and economic systems that have evolved over thousands of years- This exposure soon shifts to a bombardment of multi-disciplinary information that the teenager is now expected to swim through and finally choose a discipline that interests him most by the time he turns 18- Once the discipline is chosen the young adult must now pursue the specialized education guided by domain specialists who rigorously expose him to the domain and demonstrate as many use cases of the specialization as possible- The expected outcome is that once this person graduates, he will use his specialization to become a contributing  active member of the societyThis however is an ideal scenario and like most things ideal it hardly plays out like this. Here are a few gaps in this system:- The system doesn’t take into account training the fundamental human attributes that have been developed  honed by over 50,000 years of evolution. These fundamental attributes are memory, observation and curiosity. This gap is despite the fact that everyone knows that this memory, observation and curiosity (MOC) trinity is what’s directly responsible for our modern civilization.- Whereas in pre-industrial civilization survival was still dependent on how well a person acquires  uses MOC, the current education system pushes people to ignore these key attributes all together. Instead it pushes us to develop filters that prohibit us from experiencing reality as it is. If you take an external view, how effective do you think a person with sub-par memory, poor observation skills and undeveloped curiosity is? Not only is he boring, but is easily bored. As he has a superficial understanding of the world and projects this mindset on everything he sees or does.- The current education system is driven by non-sustainable socio-economic principles and reserves the best rewards for domains or specialists that have limited or no impact on advancing the progress of mankind or improving the basic human condition. Even though older systems such as religion preach altruism, the prevalent socio-economic systems are predominantly selfish and have an individualistic view of the world.- This system pushes the young adult to choose his vocation on the basis of either a stable financial reward or an exaggerated one, without any concern for his personal inclination or a confidence in his ability to influence his environment. Ironically this was his first lesson as a child.- Only a few escape this system and develop MOC independently. Their effectiveness in channeling MOC from a young age determines their socio economic status later in life. Most of these ‘escape artists’ gradually develop either a distaste or a trivial attitude towards the education system. They see it as means for either promoting mediocrity or a system that favors elites.As we see a widespread increase in disease, mortality, religious fanaticism, poverty, classism and pollution we have to rethink how our basic systems work. And education is the most important of all these systems because it starts at the beginning.In my next post I will give a basic framework, advantages  examples of incorporating the MOC attributes in education.Passionately curious, eternally optimistic  mildly exaggerated digital marketing professional who loves writing

I’ve been editing Here are seven pieces that I thought you may all enjoy — and a little commentary below each one. If you have any stories to add, please do so by hitting “Respond” below!This paragraph made me sit upright (emphases mine):This piece made me realize that it’s a brave new world out there for educators and students alike — and that everyone is, to some degree, inventing as they go.This piece is also a good backgrounder for those of you who, upon hearing the phrase “blended learning,” have visions of Vitamix classes. I was one of you too, not long ago ☺Sharing is caring… and according to one Chicago study, fundamental to learning. PhD candidate Courtney Blackwell observed what happened when some kids had their own iPads and others shared. The difference was statistically significant.Thank you, On a related note, I’ve picked up on a similar trend in education writing. To that end, if you are a person of color and have a great story about education innovation, please Did you know that New York teachers are evaluated largely on their students’ test scores? Yikes. Luckily, this article talks about how other states, such as Texas, are ditching that model of teacher evaluation for one that puts more emphasis on student growth. They hope it’ll lead to a shift in how teachers use evaluations more broadly:Basically, evaluations should actually help teachers become better professionals. That’s some great I have to say, I am very impressed with Sal Khan’s nuanced understanding of how technology can be used effectively in the classroom. Considering the technological empire he’s built with Khan Academy, I was particularly moved by this admission:Journalists have a tendency to focus on the negative performers. Which state had the worst dropout rate? Where is truancy the biggest problem?I’m so happy that Matt Bowman took the opposite approach for this piece. He found Tracy Fischetti, a high school English teacher in Florida whose students improved reading scores I have to end with this incredible compilation of school lunches from around the country. My personal favorite is New York (where I grew up). I totally remember being served raw meat adorned with Band-Aids.Not unrelated: I turned vegetarian in the second grade.BrightEditor of Bright, Medium’s publication about education innovation. Advocate of solutions journalism (Innovation in Education

One of the distinguished dignitaries participating in the He was making the point thatLike, for instance, something called “market reforms” for schools. If we threatened to fire them for low test scores they’d be afraid and work harder. If we standardized instruction and standardized assessment and standardized textbooks then we’d be able to count on The dignitaries in this world conference are sharing the truth of their success.They are building a Teachers and support staff are responsible for design of instruction, for collaboration with their colleagues to design meaningful assessments, for working as a team to find creative interventions for students with special needs who are not succeeding as expected. They involve parents in meaningful ways. They set short-term and long-term goals. The staff hold each accountable for their role in student success.The top performing countries haveThe top performing countries focus on The top performing countries The top performing countries have families that express a profound pride when a son or daughter is accepted into a college of education in the same way that American families are proud when a child is accepted in medical school.Top performing countries In top performing countries, practitioners have a voice in developing, designing, monitoring and setting goals for programs that lead to genuine, meaningful and continuous student success.The gentleman’s remarks haunt me. All of this may be true, but Some very powerful people believe these “market reforms” will work. There is neither research nor experience to suggest they are right. Which leads me to the final remarks of another distinguished presenter.He said, “His remarks should challenge those who call themselves “reformers”. But it also should challenge those of us who represent practitioners in unions.It should challenge those who represent governments and parents and foundations. It should serve as a standard for all of us going forward with what we sincerely believe are the right ideas to improve a system we want to serve the whole and human child — whether you happen to be a third grade teacher or a billionaire or a superintendent or a coach or a special ed aide or a union official or a college professor or the President of the United States of America.He said, “Without data, you are just another person with an opinion.”Official account of the president of the National Education Association. Utah teacher of the year, author, maestra and rabble rouser!

Meeting teachers at the start of my son’s school year this week, I was once again reminded that high school is where he is expected to learn the skills necessary to do well in college, and in his chosen profession once he graduates. His teachers repeatedly emphasized to me that learning “good work habits,” which apparently are exactly the same for everyone, regardless of their aptitudes and interests, is the only way my child will succeed in life. As the parent of a teenager with learning differences, it’s not the first time I’ve heard this spiel, but no amount of explanation that my son is an aural learner with It’s not hard to understand the prevailing attitude of the administration and teachers at my son’s nationally ranked high school—they would seem to have the statistics in their corner. Since up to 85 percent of seniors graduate each year, 72 percent go on to college and the Most US public school systems at K-12 level continue to fail to address the advancement of myriad curricula, technologies and pedagogies currently available that would not only make learning more accessible, personalized and specialized and advance excellence in learning for every student, but would also provide proactive expertise and proficiency in mastering the tools necessary for realizing success in the economy of the future. Why? Because there is no great outcry from parents or students for that kind of change, since the vast majority feel safe and comfortable with the status quo whether it benefits them or not.In large part due to the apathy of voters, public schools in the US have taken a huge hit from both federal and state/local governments who inexplicably impede learning at every level for one of the country’s most valuable resources, its children. While US school systems are decimated by petty arguments over teacher tenure and unions, taxpayer funding, anti-science curricula, vouchers, charters, and disagreement on the virtues of standardized testing, At its heart, the problem is one of entrenched bureaucracy, a climate of partisan politics and class differences that have only become more pervasive over time. Our school systems are failing, Even the newly implemented Most public schools are woefully behind in providing student access to the Web and digital assets for The conundrum is that not only is it necessary to instruct students utilizing these new technologies, it is imperative that all students be familiar and competent with using them in their daily lives. Being able to design for and with these technologies, will most probably be the basis of their work product in the job market of the future—in all careers, from manufacturing to medicine. This intransigence toward committing to a real and relevant course of study to enhance learning for all students, of all types, seems at best a willful disregard for the obvious benefits that Internet, digital and interactive tools could bring, and at worst, is a horribly misguided attempt to prove libertarian-leaning arguments against investment in the In the past most US school districts have depended on a steady supply of well-fed, eager and interested students whose parents support and encourage them to succeed at school, and taxpayers who will continue to be able to contribute at steady, though increasing levels to The public school mindset has always been of a one-size-fits-all mentality and resists acceptance of alternative approaches for children with learning differences. It often relegates students with special needs to “mainstreaming” into classrooms that make little effort to engage them if they do not respond well to standardized teaching practices and work requirements. The advancement in alternative teaching methods is hampered by low investment in teacher upskilling, lack of access to materials and a blatant distrust of newly created systems, especially online and interactive opportunities which are most often reserved for high-achieving and self-motivated students or are just as often blatantly discouraged by teachers, guidance counselors and principals on the grounds that they are not proven to be effective or interesting enough to captivate student’s interest.The sad truth is that many of the current crop of online classes and interactive learning games for K–12 students are quite poorly designed and unengaging, but there is a reason for that. Most states impose serious restrictions on Internet connectivity for students, due to concerns about what they may get access to on school property. This creates myriad problems for developers of educational software, online instruction programs, learning objects, interactive assets and games, as there is no current standard for development of these types of programs specifically designed for K-12 students. Developers are disincentivized from creating programs or apps for these schools as they have labyrinthine requirements which often make them cost prohibitive to satisfy and require becoming specialists in both low-bandwidth design and bureaucracy alike. This is why corporately-funded, full-service hardware and software solutions are so often the winners in the educational technology market. Unfortunately the trade off is the uncomfortable ball and chain of standardized testing and data collection access for the developers.So much human capital has been lost as we continue to expect public school students to excel in the workforce and the economy with very little instruction in the types of knowledge they will actually need to be successful—at even the most basic levels. Pedagogical theories in recent years have almost completely reversed from a self-esteem nurturing, personal experience valuing approach to a more learning-based, research-over-emotional argument model. This latter focus is Public school instruction has always suffered from a lack of imagination when it comes to preparing for the future. There now exists a vast chasm between what students need to know to survive and what they are taught. It is no wonder that so many students graduate from high school with little to no actual insight into how to live, work and learn in the current economy, much less the workforce of the next forty, or even the next twenty years. The US on the whole seems doomed to be lost in petty fights over mundane, insignificant, and un-measurable near-term details of education bureaucracy, while selling far short the preparation for, or even imagining of, the long-term and probably dramatic changes in the world into which present day students will matriculate. While we remain paralyzed over basic standards implementation, the future marches on, rendering those standards obsolete before they even reach the printed page. The glaring gap will only widen if US public schools continue to resist adapting their antiquated modes and metrics of teaching our children. While new technologies alone will not solve all the problems faced by US public schools, a strategic plan that incorporates technological competence from the earliest years would be the best and most credible platform to address and promote student achievement for all.So, what do we do besides wring our hands? As an activist parent who has worked in online education at the university level, I have a few suggestions for how to make our K–12 schools more effective; ideas which focus on rethinking tools we are only just now putting in place, and imagining new ways we can future-proof our students to be able to deal with the complexities the world will inevitably throw at them.For online education to be more engaging and accessible, large school systems (or the federal government, through CCSS) would be smart to sponsor competitions to design classes for K–12 students—to open the field to wider sources of innovation. To be effective, Internet access standards would have to be established and developers provided with pedagogical outlines, grade level competencies, learning goals and benchmarks for assessment. Beyond that, designers and developers would have free reign to create the most engaging classes their minds can imagine. Winners could have their classes licensed and purchased by any school district with education standard Internet access through a national online course catalog. I would much rather see curriculum unbundled this way than via Parents and teachers must be willing to advocate for their students and challenge administrators and school board members who seem unwilling to endorse tech-driven learning opportunities simply because they are costly or untested in the field locally. While most school-age children do have access to Internet and computers at home, there are many children at a disadvantage when it comes to technological experience. The great news is, as evidenced by a One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) program in Ethiopia, I believe that Perhaps most importantly, I believe strongly that our There are many choices to be made and our future approaches on an ever accelerated timeline. Public school systems must act, or we risk returning our children’s lives to being like those of their great-great-great grandparents, mostly inexperienced and unexposed to the great knowledge of their world, and without adequate tools to construct the path of their own lives.Susan Cox-Smith is a gin-soaked, mildly democratic-socialist popinjay and avid curator of esoteric ephemera. She is also an occasional, accidental Changeist.

In the summer of 2014, I became seriously ill with Grave’s Disease, which attacked my breathing, heart rate, and nervous system. With my bodily functions greatly weakened, I could not even open a water bottle. For the first time in my life, I had to face my own fragility and mortality. Though the illness proved treatable, the sheer human terror of ceasing to exist gripped me. I still had yet to accomplish my dreams, or figure out my purpose in life. I revisited the reason I began my career at an edtech startup, Declara: I joined because of the opportunity to work alongside brilliant minds at the intersection of learning, design, and technology to help every adult achieve his/her full potential through personalized learning.I wasn’t satisfied with this answer, so I dug deeper and asked myself, “Why do I even care about education?” The answer revealed itself with alarming clarity and urgency: The education system systematically exterminates the qualities we are all born with: curiosity, imagination, compassion, and creativity. How? If we have learned anything about neuroplasticity, it’s that neural pathways either strengthen, or they atrophy. By focusing on meaningless tests and narrow-minded definitions of tests, students go through assembly-line style into a system that slowly but surely extinguishes these qualities. No wonder society is rampant with what William Deresiewicz call “excellent sheep.”After over a year at Declara, I realized two things: (1) The wicked problems in education cannot be solved by software alone; and (2) The impact that Declara has on individuals is indirect — I wanted to be more viscerally involved in K12 students’ learning. So here I am now, pivoting from software to education, realizing that the real bugs aren’t in the software, but in the way our hearts and brains have been molded by invisible incentives all around us — the education system. I want to dedicate my life now to the Dalai Lama’s vision of an education system that not only nurtures brighter minds, but ultimately better human beings.Without being formally educated about the history of education, policy, and curriculum design, I was faced with a daunting game of “catch up.” Instead of jumping into a masters program, I decided to take an eccentric and eclectic approach by asking myself:I scavenged Maria Papova’s From these myriad excerpts, quotes, and articles emerged themes of what we as humans need in education:Each theme contains relevant concepts, as well as quotes from passages written by luminaries in their respective disciplines extolling the themes and concepts. Passages marked in gray are commentary from Maria Popova, who curates BrainPickings. Blue passages are quoted from academic sources. This is very much a work in progress, but I hope this type of holistic analysis of education can spark a new conversation around what it means to teach and learn.Leave a response below about a concern, idea, suggestion, improvement!Multipotentialite examining the intersection of Design Thinking, Mindfulness, Civic Engagement, and Play. 

That got us thinking. It’s obvious that sex ed isn’t working the way it’s supposed to. Nothing any of us learned in school was ultimately relevant to our lives. Most of what we know about sex and relationships we figured out on our own, by trial and error.And, perhaps because of the avoidance of frank conversations about sex, kids have been left to navigate these murky waters on their own. We have more sexual assault and rape charges on college campuses than ever before. We have more states establishing “Yes means Yes” laws as if no wasn’t clear enough.How can we refresh sex ed? How can we make it useful and meaningful? We’ve invited a handful of writers to write letters to their younger selves: What do they wish someone had told them back then? What wisdom do they want to share?We’ll be running these letters over the next 10 days in If you could go back and teach your naïve teenage self about sex and relationships, what would you say? Please click the response button below to share your letter. Or post your sex ed curriculum. Tag it with “LetsTalkAboutSexEd.”Thank you.Editor of Bright, Medium’s publication about education innovation.Innovation in Education

Teaching is personal. It is the constant, minute-to-minute decisions teachers make about how to best help students, within the context of personal connections, individual personalities, temperaments, and humor. It is a delicate dance of nurturing, challenging, questioning, exploring, and supporting while maintaining the fragile student sense of self.Learning is individual. It doesn’t conform to grade levels, testing schedules, higher and higher standards or even our best intentions. A child’s mind and educational growth is full of quick bursts, setbacks, giant leaps and incremental, steady growth based on innumerable factors.As any teacher will tell you, the profession has gotten exponentially more complicated and challenging, and educators have fewer and fewer resources. The answer, many think, is to run schools like businesses.It’s no wonder we are not seeing much success with this model. We have huge institutions overcrowded with students; crumbling, dismal classrooms; teachers forced to teach to a test, on specific timelines; removal of essentially all personal, creative instruction and the flexibility to pursue the interests and passions of both the children and the teachers.It should be no surprise then that one in three teachers are quitting in the first three years, and fifty percent in the first five years. Teachers are in increasingly hostile, stressful, and demoralizing situations. They struggle with the daily increasing expectations, rushing around and feeling like they are treading water while society tosses them more and more bricks to hold. This has a profound impact on the climate of the school, and ultimately, the students.What if we finally admitted that teaching and learning is not a business — and started treating it with the care and attention that we would treat our own homes? Personal, individual, creative, flexible, and unique.What could this look like?A place where each child is treated as an individual, and not just in name or window dressing. Children come to schools with a unique set of experiences, passions, backgrounds, ideas, skills, and deficits. What if our job as teachers was to uncover this specific set for each child, and map a personal, unique education for them based on this?It’s an idea so simple. Figure out the intricacies of the child and plan for growth with individual, small group, digital, and whole group instruction.Collaboratively, teachers, parents and students could develop educational goals to be met for each child, or age level cohort. Available resources include (but are not limited to) Common Core, researched-based math and literacy programs, and other curricular timelines. Teachers, parents, and the students acknowledge that these resources may not work for all students and tailor goals specifically for each child, realizing that each student has their own internal timeline and set of needs.Growth is monitored through an individual portfolio, using specific goals, and multiple ways of engaging students to meet them. Students working closely with educators pursue goals utilizing digital media, and individual and small group instruction. When possible, student goals will be linked to leadership and community service opportunities. Students will begin to see connections between their daily goals, their educational journey and the health of the local community. Each day, students would participate in reflection about these goals and determine ways to improve their journey.Through this we will see more motivation, engagement, and purpose than we see in our public schools right now.How do I know this? I’ve seen it in action with service learning. When students identify a problem, set goals and a timeline, work toward them, and reflect on this growth, nationally we’ve seen high school dropout rates go down, civic engagement, responsibility, attendance and motivation go up.The days of a sage on the stage delivering knowledge are over. What we need now are small, focused, driven groups of learners under the coaching of trained educators, pursuing specific goals in a nurturing, collaborative environment.What about the environment? This kind of school begs for smaller, more home-like learning environments. Spaces that have ample and comfortable space for small groups, individuals, and larger groups to meet and work. Reading nooks, creative workspaces, safe spaces, ample books and full access to technology tools are essential.We have to let go of traditional learning environments to embrace this new model of individualized and community connected learning. Our schools would need to either be retrofitted or recreated into fluid, comfortable learning environments, or communities could take advantage of lower home prices and convert several homes into clusters of age specific learning communities.The teacher’s role in this would evolve into a mentor, facilitator, collaborator and community liaison. Teachers would be responsible for developing plans with 10–15 students. They would create schedules, coordinating with community and school resources, and teach lessons to help meet each child’s unique goals.Teachers in an age group learning community would meet daily to collaborate with each other and develop the best educational plans for their students. Invited to these meetings at different times would be parents, specialists, and community leaders. Together, we would constantly grow, monitor and enrich each educational plan.A morning for a typical fifth grade child would include a morning meeting with age level peers, small group math instruction and practice with a teacher or online, then reading and writing about a topic of interest with an online or in person group of kids. After lunch featuring local, organic and homemade food, the child participates in exercise determined by the educational team: running, yoga, hiking, or team sports. The afternoon is focused on hands on, service learning projects in the areas of science and social studies, but interconnected with all subject areas. As the students grow older, connections and opportunities within the local (or digital) community grow stronger, more individualized, and complex.This kind of education could also be respectful, inclusive, and appropriate for students who need specialized instruction. Currently, it takes too long for many students with special needs to access their education in meaningful ways. In this new model, specific goals could be written into plans and be less obtrusive, since everyone has a unique plan (unlike our current model, where special education students are the only ones with individualized plans). So, taking the typical fifth grader, if they have experienced trauma, or have a learning disability for example, they could get community based counseling, or skill work as part of their plan as soon as they needed it.Personalized education will be expensive, no doubt. But our current industrialized educational bureaucracy is extremely expensive as well. Shifting our resources to develop these types of learning communities would take time, careful planning, and vision, but each community could do so by utilizing community and educational leaders, policy makers and school boards. By working together, these entities could develop trust, community and collective vision, and find themselves less at odds with each other. Aren’t we all focused on the same goals of improving education, providing opportunities, and bettering our communities?If we can put a man on the moon, create cars and the Internet, we can personalize and individualize education and ground it firmly in local communities. This kind of targeted, individualized student growth, closely monitored, will outpace any we have ever seen. Dropout rates will plummet and more students will get what they need. With this significant investment in our youth and local communities, we will see student outcomes that rival those all over the world. What will we gain? Focused, driven, connected and civic minded individuals who know how to work toward goals, solve complex problems, and reflect on their progress. I think at this point in our history, we need them more than ever.founder of Non-Toxic Kids, teacher, author of new YA book THE ORDER OF THE TREES, blogger + advocate for childrens health, women, education, and environment.Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Knowing everything but understanding nothing.This week I was frustrated, but beyond being frustrated with myself for the grade I had gotten in a particular exam — which was actually relatively good — I was frustrated with how my learning was being measured and the educational focus of most of my courses. In short, learning is measured on how many errors teachers can pull out of us, through cheap tricks and subjective answer choices, as well as how closely you answer the essay question to what the teacher wants to read.Instead of spending our time through dialogues that would deepen our comprehension of the topics/themes explored in a book, we spend hours writing summaries of each chapter, the biography of the author, vocabulary words etc. useless things in my opinion, that to make matters worse, are going to be graded based on the beauty of our handwriting rather than the content of our ideas. But Spanish is not the only course that suffers this syndrome, actually most do. For example, on essays for my philosophy course — in which I have vastly improved — it seems that it is more about how many terms you can jam in paragraph rather than the development of an idea and no matter how great your analysis is you’re not quite at a 7 level if you missed a small, even irrelevant detail. Even in math class — where I have a 7 — I notice that it’s senseless how ones level of comprehension cant be considered absolute (excellent) if you make a tiny mistake in the process of answering a question you actually understand.Its senseless that learning is measured in the quantity of human errors you may end up having during an exam rather than ones ability to apply knowledge in distinct, real-life circumstances. However, beyond making me reflect upon the prominent futile aspects of our educational system I started to reflect about the kind of people and culture that it cultivates.It didn’t take me much time to realize that modern education produces individuals with no sense of identity and introspection, whose sense of value comes from the grades earned and the college accepted into, rather than the profoundness of ones preoccupations, moral character and individual purpose. Don’t get me wrong, pushing ones limit, excelling academically and being a dedicated learner are all brilliant things that everyone should aim for, however it is the reason or the “why” we do them for, that education has lead us all to get wrong.At this point you might be thinking: “what the hell is this guy talking about?”, or “where does all this come from?” and before I continue I just want to put it out there that exceptions always exist… though few.Now let me put it to you this way: What is the purpose of education? To learn. So if learning is the purpose of education, it must mean that millions of students around the world “bust their ass” in school because they have genuine desire to maximise their learning. However, both you and I know it’s not true. So what then is the purpose or goal of education? Isn’t achieving academic excellence the reason why students exploit themselves? If so, it would be safe to say that the true purpose of modern education is to achieve that so desired — highly praised level of academic perfection. This, however raises a new question: Why do students exploit themselves to achieve such high standards? It might well be because of their genuine interest in learning or their personal satisfaction in excelling, however, the most common reason is to be accepted into a prestigious university. But then again: why is there such an immense desire to attend the most prestigious university, why do students sacrifice so much to do so? One might answer, because my parents force me to, the other because a good university will lead me to a good job and another — which will most probably be said by no one — because my sense of value derives from attending a prestigious university and receiving both academic praise and the tacit admiration from those around me.We must understand that if one’s sole purpose is to satisfy parental expectations then one’s self-esteem and sense of identity can be easily sabotaged by forces beyond one’s control. Also, we must understand that becoming a billionaire and exploiting all the lavish pleasures that money can buy is still half of the picture, as momentary happiness won’t give you the level of fullness that conscious beings yearn for. Finally, academic praise is just a momentary illusion of worthiness if and when lacking a sense of greater purpose and identity.It is rare though, to find someone with a unique pick, or a well thought out reason for choosing a specific career path and college or someone who really has a sense of purpose in their lives (beyond personal satisfaction and pleasure exploitation) or even someone who truly wants to leave their footprint in this world and has a genuine care for it. I literally once met a girl who told me that she wanted to study economy because she was “good at math and sh@*.”The picture might start forming by now; education has filled our minds with courses useless to our lives, it has slowly engraved in our subconscious that ones worth derives from achieving academic excellence and it has made us believe that the sole reason we must excel is to get into the best universities in the world. But it has never asked us how fulfilled we are going to be with our lives once we have reached our deathbed.So yes, I congratulate you education for creating the blueprint of the ideal student: a young over-achiever with volatile self-esteem and absent moral character who truly knows nothing about himself nor what in the world they want to do with his life.I could ramble on with analogies and allegories to support my arguments and to further understand where I am coming from, but that will just bore you to death so let me answer the one question left: so what?Now this ones big and it could take me thousands of words and paragraphs to grasp it entirely, to explore its whole depth and dwell in all its possible angles. But for simplicities sake let me give it to you straightfoward— and forgive me for my ignorance for I could be entirely wrong — : education today focuses on knowledge and skill, developing them to a point which is beyond what is necessary to thrive, however, it seems to have forgotten what we’re striving for and as we reach our 50s, feeling empty inside, we blindly try to cease our hunger with any damn thing we find around. Now this may be a long-shot, but I bet if education focused more on developing the individuals character we might as well finally free ourselves from this endless cycle of spiritual poverty.Ps. And no, I am not your typical resentful under-achiever hating on the system, it’s quite the opposite as I have found myself victim of such symptoms I now so despise.Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

What if teachers could lead without leaving the classroom — and in doing so, incubate and execute their own policy and pedagogical ideas?In recent years, the Center for Teaching Quality has supported two dozen teacherpreneurs — expert teachers who typically have a reduced teaching load of 50% — to lead bold reforms at the school, district, state and national levels. In partnership with districts (and with philanthropic financial support), teacherpreneurs like Noah Zeichner, Ali Wright, Jessica Cuthbertson and Julie Hiltz have achieved remarkable results for students, schools and the profession.These classroom experts have generated powerful proof points for CTQ’s bold brand of teacher leadership, documented in a series of In addition, Noah has taught in Ecuador and joined delegations to Singapore and Brazil to explore teacher-led reform within the context of their education systems, with implications for his profession back in the U.S. But when he isn’t traveling, virtual communities like the CTQ Collaboratory have allowed him to engage with global networks without losing instructional time with his students.Teachers who model leadership do the most for their students, in and out of the classroom. Ali shared her experiences as a budding blogger and speaker with her students. She challenged them to take a risk of their own: the AP Calculus exam. The result? All of Ali’s students sit for the exam and 50% earn the highest possible score. Meanwhile, as a teacherpreneur, Ali brought her daily work with students into policy conversations with Kentucky’s state legislature, national reform groups like Achieve or Student Achievement Partners, or with Noah and their work with the Asia Society’s Global Cities Education Network.These are just a few of the discoveries that we’ve made in working with teacherpreneurs, building their capacity to solve local challenges and to bring their solutions to scale. We learn more all the time as we partner with savvy districts, state agencies, and other organizations to address their challenges and goals by designing, supporting, and systematizing new hybrid roles and leadership pathways.Our greatest lesson: If student learning is going to be competency-based, personalized, and open-walled, so must the leadership of their teachers. CTQ’s work with teacherpreneurs has proven it can be done.Transforming education through the bold ideas and expert practices of teacher leaders. Learn more about our book, #Teacherpreneurs: Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Tomorrow, I return to Oslo where last year Many people tell me that I am special. However, it leads me to ask myself: am I unique because I’m a When the Taliban stopped me from going to school and wanted to silence me, you defended me. You spoke up for me, prayed for me, you sang my song during those dark days when my voice was silenced. I became stronger because of the support of my family and the support from the millions of sisters and brothers from all around the world.I’ve just finished another year of school and will turn 18 next week. Your prayers and your love is what has made my story unique.Last year, I met a girl called Mezon when I visited the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan. She struggles for food, water and electricity, yet her thirst is for knowledge. She wants to learn and grow to return to her country and make a difference. So, Mezon goes from tent to tent in her camp encouraging girls to go to school. She speaks to anyone who is willing to listen to let the world’s powerful people know that she and girls like her want to learn.Being a refugee is no excuse to learn less. On the contrary, it is a motivation to learn more. Their situation could not, and should not, be an excuse for them to receive less than their right — a quality primary and secondary education. This year, Mezon will attend her 12th year of school, because she herself and other supporters from the Malala Fund and partners spoke up.Mezon is not the only one facing difficulties in her education. There are seven million Syrian refugee children. Two million are still out of school. For them, and for Mezon, education is the only chance to salvage their future. So I ask: what will it take to educate all the Mezons of the world for 12 years?The That is a choice. Our leaders are choosing bombs and bullets over books and bright futures. And we are letting them.Here is my slogan… our slogan, the slogan of millions of children all over the world: Books not bullets!Books not bullets is not an empty slogan, it is a strategy to build lasting peace and tackle the huge challenges facing our world.I want world leaders to choose books over bullets. It may look as if I am naive. I’m still a teenager. But I measure the world in hope, not doubt.So where do we start? We start with the impossible.The world made a brave attempt at basic education for all starting in 2000 with the Millennium Development Goals. We made progress in getting many girls into school for the first time, but we did not do so well at keeping them in education and giving them a future beyond basic literacy and math skills.We made little progress in enrolling girls in secondary education where over 60 million adolescents of lower secondary age are still out of school. Eighty per cent of disadvantaged girls in poor countries fail to complete lower secondary school. The world has not even bothered counting how many complete upper secondary, grades 10, 11 and 12 in many countries.To a generation of girls the world told them that a basic education was all they deserved. That is unacceptable. If world leaders want 12 years of quality education for their own children, it is also time to ensure it for the rest of the world’s children.The good news is we have a plan to change course, by fully funding education for 12 years, starting with the hardest to reach. Girls like myself and Mezon.Getting millions of girls into school seems impossible. Like my story, it is not. What we have seen is that when we choose to act, girls in the darkest corners of the world can be reached with the light of education.I will speak in front of prime ministers and education ministers in Oslo tomorrow, not as someone special or exceptional, but as a representative of children and young girls highlighting what the world can achieve when we come together, and choose hope over doubt, light over dark, books over bullets.The Malala Fund is focused on helping girls go to school and raise their voices for the right to education.

To solve problems for a particular segment of users, designers create tailored experiences. Without a tailored experience, that segment has to use tools designed for the masses, which means only a fraction of their problems get solved — often in largely superficial ways.It’s like this: you’ve cut a piece of pie, and now you need to get it on your plate. You At Traditionally, communication involved crumpled syllabi at the bottom of backpacks, long-winded emails to outdated Yahoo accounts, and text messages from personal cell phone numbers that couldn’t be tracked. It was messy, ineffective, and risky.Educators need a tool designed just for them. By immersing ourselves in classrooms and school communities, we cater our designs to the specific challenges that teachers, students, and parents face when trying to connect with one another.The problems we solve are challenging but critical. Since designers are focusing more and more on creating these kinds of tailored experiences, we thought we’d share a few things we’ve learned along the way.We have 3 vastly different types of users who interact with our product in distinct ways.The 2 most similar user types: students and parents. The average teenager sends roughly Even with these noble goals, most students tend to overlook passive communication. For instance, how do you keep track of email when you have texts, Instagram notifications, and Snapchat messages to deal with?Parents feel overwhelmed by the sheer number of messages they receive, not to mention the frequent requests to check websites from coaches, teachers, after-school programs, and their own workplaces.Then there are teachers, our central users. Their main goal is a child’s success, which means trying to increase parental involvement, reduce absenteeism, and build meaningful connections with both the child and the parent. These are daunting challenges, and teachers have the hardest job in the world. Teachers need simple tools that amplify their efforts and save time.Given these distinct user needs, teachers initiate the most communication and need the biggest breadth of control in the product. That’s why we focus most of our research efforts on teachers. By solving problems for the central user, you’re solving problems for all of your users simultaneously.Complex user controls are an easy trap, especially in sectors where safety is important. Clunky controls usually lead to too much complexity and can actually diminish the power of your product.It’s a huge challenge, yes, but the best designers figure out ways to solve challenges in simpler ways.For example, Remind started with 1-way broadcast messaging because we wanted to ensure teachers had full control over how they communicated with students and families. But we realized these controls were hampering their goals of providing timely, more personalized support. Teachers needed 2-way communication options that still offered the ability to create boundaries between school and life at home.With that in mind, we eventually introduced Chat, a 2-way messaging feature that included an easy way to set boundaries: office hours. This change improved the product for all of our users, not just teachers.Our new projects begin with putting initial designs in front of our users, and then we take their feedback to heart.Every time we consider introducing a new feature, we conduct both exploratory and summative research. We do 5 to 8 user interviews a week along with user testing, where we ask teachers to walk through quick prototypes we’ve made in InVision. These steps help us to get feedback on both initial and iterative designs.Some of the biggest mistakes we’ve made in the past have been due to what we assumed teachers would want. When we didn’t do enough Be aware of any other frictions that appear in the day-to-day lives of your users. A lot of designers don’t typically consider accessibility while crafting experiences, but it’s one of the most frequent frictions that users face.How are your designs supposed to simplify your users life if they can’t even see your painstakingly crafted UI/UX work?If our designers don’t think about accessibility and a child has a vision impairment, it can be catastrophic to the child’s confidence. That confidence is key to how well students do in school, the quality of their educational experiences, and even their chances of graduating.We should be designing products that take some of that friction away, not adding to it.Combing through your product to increase accessibility can also be a great opportunity to take a critical look at your visual system. For us, it increases our system design consistency and gave us a running start to kick off a much-needed brand exploration.Think about the accessibility of your work earlier rather than later. The later you incorporate it, the more difficult it is to tackle in an ever-growing product.Back when we were thinking of ways that Chat might fit into the product, we knew it was going to be just as important as the 1-way messaging feature that had defined us until then. We needed to embrace what we really were: a messaging app. That required us to revamp all platforms to align with this idea.Unfortunately, both native mobile and our web app had different navigation structures and UI patterns, and neither really supported that idea of balance between the 2 main features we envisioned.Parity allows the user to learn your product just once — it’s very important. This enables them to more quickly become those power users that we love. For us, parity was not only important across iOS, Android, and web, but also needed to extend to SMS; the majority of our student user base uses Remind via SMS.For iOS and Android, we knew we needed to cut out the redundancies in our product. The biggest: the class message feed that the user initially landed on. The feed didn’t allow users to immediately recognize which classes had new messages, so it diluted the importance of the message itself. Also, we already had a “Classes” view that was displaying those same messages, just in a different way.We removed the message feed and rebuilt “Classes” to function more like a Additionally, our web dashboard was old — and it showed. It caused a ton of churn every time we had to design a new feature within its outdated structure. We rethought, redesigned, and rewrote it from the ground up in React. In the process, we gave the same priority to classes and Chat that you’ll see in our Revamping our mobile and web platforms lets us move so much faster and allows our users to have a very similar experience, no matter the platform.To help solve the needs of our users by introducing 2-way communication, we needed to take a big step back from how we viewed our product.Reimagining how our users consumed content, navigated the product, and behaved across all platforms helped us simplify our product and create an even more powerful tailored communication experience for education.Even if you aren’t introducing a large feature, don’t be afraid to take that step back and debate with yourself. Questions to ask:It’s hard to see the bigger issues if you’re looking at something from 6 inches away. Step back and focus on how you can empower your users — you might end up changing not only how people interact with your product, but how people interact with each other within your entire user base.Tools designed for the masses make an impact on the world, but designing tools tailored for specific segments focuses and amplifies that impact. And that’s the power of tailored experiences.We’re hiring: Originally posted on Head of Design at Remind | are read-write, and illegible sometimes …

The category education itself is such an all-encompassing category that deals with early childhood to adult learning, formal and informal learning, policy, technology, funding, access and stereotype threat — just to name a very few. Is it learning? Is it schooling? So many never-ending questions! There are perpetual inquiries on education that anybody who has an interest in any of the educational categories wonder. We ask, how ethical is it for us to determine what is educationally “right?” We question, what is education for? Exasperatedly, we shout to the universe, what So there you go. You’ve tackled the first step about what I talk about when I talk about education: deconstruction. Ah-ha, isn’t that confounding to know that education isn’t just one thing but a mothership of things related to learning? You might be regretting dipping your toes into such a black hole of a topic, but fret not — it makes this entire journey into understanding education and how you can make a difference possible. It doesn’t make it easy, but it does make it easier. If we aren’t talking about everything that it encompasses, then we’ll just be circling around the giant elephant in the room — the elephant that is education. We need to look at the guts to see how we can make the elephant healthier.I have frequently found myself in mini-crises on what education even is. My latest one occurred whilst in the company of Piaget, Vygotsky, Montessori, Dewey, Skinner and a slew of other educational theorists. On a chilly Friday night, I — grad student and budding Learning Technology designer, whose core purpose involves the wild beast that is education — lay in bed staring at the ceiling, questioning everything I had ever thought I knew about it. As undergraduates shouted “TGIF!” in passing, I came to the conclusion (for my own sanity): I must understand it through multiple lenses.Why is it important to realize this? The fact of the matter is, understanding how people approach education differently statewide, nationwide and worldwide recognizes that education is a diverse category with a million subjective understandings of it. Education is a people business, and not one person is the same. Therefore, when someone says: “I want to change education!” I wonder what they mean by it. By saying so, I assume that they are trying to create a singular solution that will match every single human.There is no singular solution, and that’s the hardest part. In fact, there never will be and that, my friends, is also also the beauty of living in a human society. The fact of the matter is, we live in chaos and we will always be born from different backgrounds, and that our neighbors will never be just like us, and our parents and children and twins will never be just like us; everything we experience as an individual is our own and solely ours. Oscar Wilde tells it like it is when he said: “Be yourself. Everybody else is already taken.”There are no singular solutions because there are educational issues everywhere with not just one source to blame. Culture could affect the quality, but so could poverty. There are some educationally progressive countries like Finland who have invested a lot of time, finance and energy into improving the education system; while you have some other countries who do not prioritize it as highly or cannot prioritize it because of internal conflict. Is it a behavioral issue? Is it a cognitive issue? It is crucial that we understand how diverse the scope of education is if we really want want to empower more learners and give every student access to learning, as well as the opportunity to be what they aspire. We need to know, what is it that makes Saya learn better? How do we help X become a better teacher? Equally, it is problematic to assess educational development in one way, especially in a standardized manner. Currently, the methods of assessment in schools are shifting (slowly) towards becoming more personalized.Sometimes, it is important to focus on one part of the problem, even if it compromises some other learners — of course, this always depends on the problem at hand. That is why we need a strong community of educational thinkers who tackle different issues with the goal of bettering the future of learning for at least one group of learners, with the hope that a spectrum of learners will be accounted for. By zooming in on one learning need, we can build tools that are actually beneficial. Let’s take a group of students in rural Myanmar. They have never seen a computer nor do they have any internet. We want them to have a better understanding of science so that they are exposed to concepts that could inspire them. You might suggest, why don’t they use MOOCs? However, we cannot give computers to them and expect them to gain more knowledge through MOOCs when 1. they have never used computers; 2. they don’t understand the purpose of learning this; and 3. there aren’t any facilitators or teachers that can help them reflect on their knowledge. Of course, I am simplifying this problem but these learners have specific barriers to their learning that cannot be solved by just giving them access to the content. In this case, learning experience designers would need to come up with a new “technology” that will help them get from point A to point B. At the same time, we have to be conscientious of whether this is even a barrier to their learning or an assumption we have about what we feel they need to learn. By focusing on one, it is easier to see what the learners might actually need. This brings up a whole new conversation of what the purpose of education is — but we will leave that for next time.For now, being aware of how broad the topic of education is takes us one step closer to understanding what we can work on. Recognizing that there is an inherent difference in education helps us become more responsible for making sure that One might say I am naive to think that as long as our end goals are aligned — in an agreed upon way —for the improvement of society, each person’s efforts in one dimension of education makes a difference. However, if it means there continues to be people out there who are passionate about breaking boundaries, eliminating inequality and discrimination, equalizing the learning platform and providing every person the opportunity to be educated democratically (which I may be presumptuous in saying are more or less universal values); then I’d rather have some than none.Education is like a never-ending journey on a train. It will never reach its destination as a perfect system, but that’s why it is so remarkable. We have to keep fixing and fueling the train so we keep moving forward and pick up those who have fallen off. We need to keep in touch with the changing times. The better we get at it, the better we get at working together for a better humanity and global climate.Educational Innovator, Learning Experience Designer and Diversity Expert: adjusting the lens in which humans see the world #nofilterAuthentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

by Robin BruceAs But since entrepreneurs don’t follow linear and clearly defined paths, how can we design educational offerings that imbue aspiring business-builders with the experience, judgment and skills that mark the most successful and principled leaders?Entrepreneurship requires initiative and engagement, the courage to improvise, tolerance for ambiguity, and a persistent, inspiring calling. Because the shared markers of successful entrepreneurs are often these intrinsic qualities and character features instead of extrinsic content expertise, Traditional methods (as well as innovative online systems) often cast students as passive responders and as a result, students measure their success by the grading system and meeting their instructor’s expectations. They learn the counter-productive habit of repeating ideas and applying tools in a prescribed way to check a box that someone else has deemed important.If this premise is true — how do you equip aspiring entrepreneurs with the tools and judgment to grow into successful leaders? If how you teach is more important than what you teach — which characteristics will mark the new entrepreneurial education stack?Courses will be designed so that students learn by doing. “Classes” will look and feel more like apprenticeships where students embark on learning quests as they seek out the answer to a core question posed by their guide or mentor.As a result, they’ll learn to be decision makers by making real decisions. They’ll stand in the shoes of an entrepreneur facing a real dilemma, analyze the choices at hand, make a decision and defend it.They’ll participate in functional learning exercises that take them from shop floor to sales call. They’ll get the practice they need, with only the subtle guidance of mentors truly invested in their success.Lecture-style teaching doesn’t encourage these qualities, but case discussions give aspiring leaders the benefit of learning from hard knocks without incurring real world costs.A good case discussion is the business equivalent of a flight simulator. Students step into the shoes of an entrepreneur facing a critical business decision. The teacher holds them accountable for the facts of the case, presses them to make commitments and take action, and keeps raising the stakes.Students preparing for and participating in case discussions learn more than just facts — they learn to use the facts, and through critical analysis, qualify their judgments. Judgment includes the ability to identify priorities, assess risks and rewards, and make the best choice in light of the data.It lets aspiring entrepreneur-students “practice like they’ll play.” In each class, they must live with the consequences of their decisions — good and bad. As experience accumulates, students get better at recognizing patterns. Their reflexes improve.Existing options for entrepreneurial training and support don’t address this critical component and many would-be entrepreneurs get derailed through a disproportional focus on short-term performance or the fleeting promise of financial success and social status.Instead, the ideal entrepreneurial education must help students derive and commit to their own “north star” while learning how to measure their success through character growth and progress towards their calling. Why? Because a leader without a vision and the ethical guardrails to match will abandon his ship when the going gets tough — or worse, stay aboard and take others down with him. A calling not only lends motivation and passion to the everyday work of launching a growing a business, but also provides a lasting filter for decision-making and the fuel for the fight.But what does this all look like in the real world?Start with You can explore structured programs for this type of learning through groups like Next, after a bit of trial or error, make an initial commitment to an During this period, you can supplement your growing toolkit at places like The third layer is Growth in this area is driven by the entrepreneur, a key differentiator from the two previous stapes, as you build an area of expertise and a web of deep relationships that will help capture extraordinary opportunities. You’ll draw on this expertise again and again throughout any venture you undertake.Finally, add fuel to the fire withHistorically, this layer has been categorized as executive education, with quarterly or semester classes on weekends or nights. However, alternative models will likely do the trick at a fraction of the cost. In this layer, learning is more modular in order to deliver lessons unique to the position of the entrepreneur and the state of their business. Check out the various MOOC’s addressing specific skills, or press accelerate on your learning curve at an Why worry about an entrepreneurial “edu stack”? It is absolutely possible to start and grow a business without ever embarking upon entrepreneurial education. Why not just go through the traditional education system and climb the rungs of a stable company until you’re on top? Or why not simply start a business today, without ever worrying about a calling or specific skill set?The answer is that an entrepreneur’s decision to be intentional about learning is motivated by the desire to compress decades of lessons from the school of hard knocks into much less time, and thereby prevent avoidable real-world costs.After all, building a business that lasts is a marathon, not a sprint. There are no tricks or shortcuts; it requires persistence and discipline over a long period of time in the same direction. And that takes commitment to character growth and personal development, forged in a distinctive educational system designed for entrepreneurs to grow into successful leaders.CEO of Acton School of BusinessAuthentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Long before John Adams became the second president of the US, he attended Harvard University in 1751. When Adams graduated in 1755, he received his A.B degree. For the uninitiated, an A.B degree is simply a B.A in liberal arts. No major, no concentration. Adams went off to teach shortly after graduation where he pondered his long-term career, finally deciding on law.Adams’ educational program at Harvard was the foundation for many colleges in the US, to have a broad education in several subject areas. Almost one hundred and fifty years later, Harvard’s However the educational institutions that were built on the concept of a liberal arts education are changing, in some ways better and others worse.Today’s universities offer degrees in a wide range of specialized fields from art history to zoology. Too often, this specialization of education and narrow focus on particular fields disservices today’s students. A return to a traditional liberal arts education would prevent career immobility and empower students to be effective in diverse career paths. A return to a liberal education can be accomplished by broadening the core curriculum at universities and exposing students to diverse topics.In the 18th and 19th centuries, universities were not meritocratic institutions in the US. They tended to accept students who were wealthy or politically connected, which acted to improve the image of the university through affiliations with influential families. While However this transition created a new dynamic. What was once reserved for the elite became available for those who could afford it, and people started to see college as an opportunity to move up the social and income ladder. While most young men still went to work and earn money after high school after WWII, college enrollment steadily increased over the years, and skyrocketed in the second half of the twentieth century.From the perspective of the university, this was a boon to business, and more universities were founded to meet this demand. At the start of the twentieth century, there were With competition among universities for students this intense, a fundamental shift in the approach universities take to recruit students has occurred. Instead of focusing on increased academic rigor to ensure competent and capable graduates, universities have narrowed degree requirements via subject concentrations, allowing students to select educational programs based on their interests.On the surface, this seems good for both universities and students. When a new industry emerges (i.e. computer programming), universities can attract students by constructing new programs to focus on specific skills for the emerging industry. This makes any given university look current, and students are served by the new program.The issue with these new and specific educational programs lies with the students. Those right out of high school may have some idea of what they’d like to do with their lives, but the majority do not. This is evidenced by the 50% of freshmen who Additionally, the degree specialization makes sacrifices in other subjects.The end result is a graduating class where each student has developed a specific skill set for a particular career, nevermind that the careers they will ultimately hold While this issue is multi-faceted and complex with no one fix-all approach, a return to liberal arts education may help graduates be more capable and effective in their careers. Revival of broad education will ensure that the foundational skills for a variety of careers are improved, giving graduates flexibility to transition into different careers. On average, a Some will argue that the values and skills developed in a traditional liberal arts education can be garnered from specific subject study. After all, critical thinking can be done in any subject. The issue with this line of thought lies in the application. Comparing and contrasting musical scores is quite a different process from comparing and contrasting statistical models. Evaluating Socrates’ Apology is a different task than evaluating experimental design. Above all, the realization that the same mode can take different context-dependent forms is key for students to understand, and is best appreciated when studying diverse topics.Others will argue that employers aren’t interested in people with liberal arts degrees. It’s been said that today’s employers are In short, we would do well to ensure that today’s students, tomorrow’s leaders, are well-equipped with the tools that have served previous generations. Though new tools and schemes are being developed that promise to make us more effective, there’s a reason we still learn math even though we have calculators. Bring back liberal arts education.Analysis, Review,  CommentaryAuthentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Lagos, NigeriaThe whole world committed to seventeen sustainable developmental goals at the UN General Assembly in September 2015. Goal number 4 is - inclusive and quality education for all by 2030. Will Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, meet this goal in 15 years?My country is ravaged by terror from Boko Haram (West African wing of ISIS), ravished by corruption and suffering from declining revenue due to lower oil prices. I am certain President Muhammadu Buhari is working hard — rallying international support, tackling corruption issues and fighting Boko Haram. It is critical to win the war against terrorism.But we all seem to be ignoring a looming problem.Nigeria has a population of 180 million people. About 40 million are less than 5 years old and another 50 million in the 6–17 age range. However, Nigeria has only 30 million seats in its primary and secondary school system and 2 million in the higher institutions.There are 20 million children (6–17 age range) outside the school system. Official statements from the government suggest it is about 10 million. Considering the capacity constraints, some of the 40 million babies (0–5) will not get a seat.With birth rate at 4%, death rate at 1.3%, infant mortality rate at 7.3%, modeled estimate suggests that there will be at least 80 million Nigerians in the 6–17 age range by 2030. Can Nigeria upgrade her school capacity from 30 to 80 million in 15 years? Will Nigeria be able to upgrade her capacity in higher education schools (universities, polytechnics and colleges of education)?Student performance in the Senior Secondary School Certificate examinations have worsened over the years. Can Nigeria deliver quality education to 80 million students in 2030?In a broad sense, there are If you consider that Policy Option 1 is our default mode and that we cannot afford Policy Option 2 as it is daunting to double our infrastructure and teaching capacity. We should really embrace innovation — Policy Option 3.I will recommend that innovating cheaper and effective ways to reach our teeming population with quality education and with the right incentives is the way to go. Policy Option 3 will cost a whole lot more than Policy Option 1 but definitely cheaper than Policy Option 2 with more returns to the country.Imagine eighteen-year old Aisha pursuing her degree in Economics, using customized and well researched technology tools and attending university physically only 12 weeks in a year. She spends another 26 weeks teaching 10 six-year olds for six hours in a day using kits and technology tools from the government. Her degree program includes a compulsory teacher training course. She gets paid by the government under a CCT program with her pay increasing if her students excels beyond a predefined benchmark when the kids attend their own annual 6 week review.This is not a one solution solves all problem and it is not a quickfix. We will have to fix our NYSC program, we need to rethink our technical education system, among many things.President Buhari will name his Education minister in the next few days. I urge the president, the executive council and the minister to please consider innovating.The United States through USAID has recently announced a $2.3 billion 5 year assistance to fight poverty in Nigeria. How about directing the funds to this initiative. It will erase poverty, increase literacy, create employment and maybe give the world breakthrough inventions.And to the global community, thought leaders, technology companies, educational institutions, development agencies, will you help us?Together, we can avert a looming crisis, not just in Nigeria but across the developing world.Nigerian|Seeker|Banker|Investor|Technology Enthusiast

Time and time again, people look at impressive PISA (Program for International Student Assessment) test results and conclude South Korea must have a successful education system. In stark opposition, I would not characterize this system as a successful one (having worked at a school in Korea for a year).First, their test scores are not an accurate depiction of According to the 2012 Without a doubt, South Korea does have a high achieving system, but at what cost? In order to fully understand the context, we need to interpret what these high scores are actually telling us….Three-fourths (We cannot attribute high PISA scores to the public education system if kids are spending more of their time and energy in privately owned Hagwons.Furthermore, PISA has praised Korea for producing phenomenal results while spending less than average amounts on education. This is true, yet, they have an abnormally high rate of private spending on education: Essentially, parents are willing to pay large sums of money to provide their child with the best education possible. High-test scores and low GDP spending seem remarkable in PISA reports, but in reality this ratio is the effect of a highly privatized hagwon system that works in conjunction with public education.Korean students score high on their tests, but the stresses placed on them to test well are overwhelming. It is no surprise South Korea ranked Successful education systems should not be defined ONLY in terms of academic achievement. Furthermore, we must interpret and contextualize PISA results to understand what these scores actually mean; abundant private tutoring, abnormal amounts of private sector funding, and unhealthy levels of stress in Korea’s case.World leaders and organizations Ed.M. Candidate at Harvard Graduate School of Education: International Education Policy.Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

This fall, about While it’s hard to count, a couple million of these students will benefit from online learning. More than two million high school students will take advantage of Outside the public system another five million students will attend Opportunities to learning outside formal education are exploding with open education resources and anywhere anytime sources (see a Traditionally, education has been a place called “school.” But, it is becoming a bundle of personal learning services, many of them digital. An emerging vision for The exploding opportunity set is exciting but challenging. It requires more learner and parent decisions than ever, and was the was the rationale for the Smart Parents Public good. While speaking with the staff of the leading talent development platform The answer to this important question has eight implications for state and local policymakers.In his new book For more, check out:Getting Smart supports innovations in learning, education  technology. Our mission is to help more young people get smart  connect to the idea economy.

When I set out to start Then in an So, I started signing up for online courses. And boy, did I learn some things.This is not like when you were in college and the professor gave you a long, complicated URL to remember to post a weekly assignment. And it’s not like those foreign language correspondence classes you took in high school because no one in your small town taught Latin. Things have changed — big time.Now, an online course can be comparable to a real, live educational experience. In fact, sometimes it’s even Well, you used to have two options:Number 1 is the standard decision for many middle-class people who don’t know what they want to do with their life or when they realize that college did not prepare them for the real world. It’s not necessarily a bad choice, but if college didn’t work for you in the first place, why go back to the institution that failed you? Not to mention, it’s expensive and doesn’t guarantee you success in the marketplace.Number Two is hard. It doesn’t work for people who need a teacher, someone to walk them through the process — and that happens to be most of us.So what’s there left to do? Until a few years ago, nothing.Now, you have a third option: the Internet. The Web is exploding with legitimate, online education opportunities that are literally changing people’s lives.If you haven’t considered taking an online course, you should. But, and this is important, don’t just sign up for any class that comes along. There’s a lot of swindlers out there (who probably made the cat videos, no offense, of course, to Notice that I didn’t include price in this list of criteria, and there’s a reason for that. There is no set standard for what an online course should cost. Many four-week courses are $200–$500, but then others range for six to 12 months may cost thousands of dollars. It depends on your field and what kind of value you place on the information. Just know that taking this course online is typically going to be cheaper than paying for it in person.If you’ve ever taken an online course, you may have noticed that there are some skunks out there.One thing I noticed in my research is these classes I took weren’t always worth my money. There was a lot of hype at the front end, but then when it came time to take the class, the quality was sub-par. This disappointed and frustrated me. It seemed like some people were using their marketing savviness to take advantage of people who really wanted to learn. I kept saying to myself, “I could do better.”So one day, I If you find yourself saying the same thing, maybe you should, too. Because it’s not enough to simply say things Sometimes, our deepest frustrations are a sign of the problems we ought to be solving.Writer. Speaker. Entrepreneur. Dad to Aiden  husband to Ashley. Author of four books, including The Art of Work. 

Mr. Branson He, together with many others, is voicing that the education system in the UK is failing in its objectives in a time of change. This is not only true in the UK, so my response is general.My response doesnt address any specific changes he advocates or enters into a public dialogue. I’m answering only his question above and with naive optimism, not that he will read this, but that education could ever be as described below.Dear Sir Richard,I wish that I had been taught some business skills in my school days and learned about compound interest early on.Joking aside, understanding how business works is useful for anyone. We are CEOs of our own lives and families (at least we should be on the board) and seeing your life and family as a business can be a useful metaphor. Business skills are handy to have in any case.But what if entrepreneurship is essentially an But entrepreneurship is definitely a Society is transforming. It’s But rather than molding people into a specific mode of thinking, like “2015 era entrepreneurship”, it would be more useful to understand what education and entrepreneurship are One thing is for sure, there are some universal truths. And we can work with that!For example. This means we shouldnt teach skills with an expiration date, but strategies for adaptation, opportunistic We should teach that failure is the primary mechanism for learning and transformation (i.e. progress). Yes, failing We should teach that We should instill the idea of If were going to live in a better world, in a well-functioning society, we have to do things differently than we are doing now. Changes that are happening in the world will affect all aspects of our lives and the environment we live in. And they will do so radically and indiscriminately.This is why were suddenly so eager to enter a It might be useful to look at the In general, kids need to learn how to think critically, how to ask the right questions, how to make sense of the world, how to tell stories and form a narrative of their culture and of themselves and to understand the narratives of others and other cultures. It’s about Kids need to learn the narratives of history and the reason for why things may be the way they are (and that most things are really hypotheses or stories from different viewpoints, and that it can be useful to entertain multiple truths at the same time, to be skeptical, yet curious).Last, but not least, they need to learn What we need to get rid of, mostly, is rote learning and homework. For facts and calculators, there is the Internet. Topography and geography are great, but map-literacy, geology, and climatology are more relevant. Where does (will) water come from?To answer your question “Should the education system change to reflect the new dynamics of entrepreneurship?” I would answer: Good luck!A week after this response was published, two articles have appeared on Richard Branson’s timeline on LinkedIn:At least this gives me some hope that any influence he will have on educational systems will not be only through the lens of entrepreneurship.You might also like to readCreative Writer. Father. Generalist. I love marmite, cheese, and Africa. Hire me for your stories. Fiction or non-fiction, one word and upHome to some of the best stories on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.

“We are currently in a golden era for design, and specifically British design,” says John Mathers, Chief Executive of Design Council. “The creative industries are outperforming the UK economy as a whole, and design is a key engine within this sector, with its contribution growing faster than any other part of the creative industries.”Mathers is referring to the On the face of it, the numbers suggest that the UK’s design sector is in rude health. But there’s growing discomfort among the people in the engine room tasked with keeping the industry moving.“We are at a fantastic moment with our arts and creative industries,” said John Kampfner, Chief Executive of the “And yet we are at an incredibly dangerous moment. We are at a dangerous moment for public funding, a dangerous moment for creative education at schools and universities and we are at a potentially dangerous moment for our commercial companies. If we fail to think long term, if we fail to invest in our public spaces and cultural education, the talent pool that has projected us on to this level of the past 10 or 20 years will dry up.”In January this year, the Warwick Commission released its The report highlighted “major concerns that the educational system is not focussing on the future needs of the Cultural and Creative Industries and the broader needs for innovation and growth in the UK”.“There is a general agreement within the Cultural and Creative Industries and industry more broadly that the Government’s focus on Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) should include the Arts (STEAM),” said the report.Professor Jonothan Neelands, director of the report, The commission urged the government not to let the UK fall further behind in developing an education system that would “ensure that current and future generations have the technological, entrepreneurial and creative confidence and skills to drive economic growth”.Frank Boyd, new media pioneer and Director of the He cites empirical evidence from the Conducted by the Universities of Brighton and Sussex with funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council, the study revealed that the businesses that grew most rapidly combine — or “fuse” — creative design and technology in their work.According to the study, “While Brighton’s creative, design and IT firms grew faster than the local economy and more than 10 times faster than the British economy as a whole, ‘fused’ business grew at more than twice that speed and ‘superfused’ firms grew faster still.”One of the enabling factors that make this sort of growth possible is people with skills that can work across traditional silos.The Design Council’s recent While broadening the STEM approach into a STEAM strategy would help address this need early on in the education journey, there’s much that can be done at a tertiary level to introduce non-design students to the world of design thinking, as well as ensure that our higher education institutions produce the right sort of designers who are ready to work in this new way.“At the moment, our education system can’t keep up,” says Mathers. “Industry is crying out for well-trained, work-ready designers. Our design schools are producing fantastic designers — but they remain a little wet behind the ears when it comes to understanding how to apply their design skills more strategically. There is a desperate need to combine real-world experience, interdisciplinary approaches as well as theory in the way we train our students.”With this in mind, Design Council recently launched Says Bel Reed, the programme manager, “Design Academy will complement existing design courses and expose students to material often not encountered until master’s level programmes.”Each year Design Academy students will tackle a major societal challenge. With the removal of grants and the introduction of tuition fees, there are concerns that some UK students, especially from lower-income backgrounds, are being priced out of creative courses viewed as non-vocational.International students accounted for 15.6% of those studying creative arts and design in the UK during 2013–14, Yet the proportion rises sharply depending on the establishment. Lawrence Zeegen, Professor of Illustration and Dean of the School of Design at London College of Communication (UAL), reports that, across the University of the Arts London, 48% of students are international, compared to 52% from the UK and European Union.In the last five years the proportion of international students studying creative arts and design in the UK has risen by a third, up from At the master’s level, Zeegen says there has been a “dramatic decline” in the proportion of UK and EU postgraduate art and design students, partly due to the lack of financial support.British undergraduates can take out government-backed loans totalling up to £27,000 to cover tuition fees for a three-year degree; Says Zeegen, “There are real issues with art and design education at home, with only £10,000 loans available for postgraduates, no real system for postgrads to find funding and limited support from the creative industries for their staff to return to education.“After the financial meltdown, “This means we are not providing high-level design thinkers to the extent needed to compete internationally in the future. There is a much greater appreciation of postgraduate study outside the UK, and a higher proportion of international students at postgrad level. The Chinese, for example, recognise that that experience counts for a lot.Professor Dale Harrow, Dean of the School of Design at the RCA and Head of its Vehicle Design programme, also reports that funding issues affect the student body at the RCA, which offers courses exclusively to postgraduates. At its School of Design, he says 40–45% of students are international and 55–60% home and EU.“It is noticeable that home students are not coming here from their first degree in the same numbers,” he says. “There is a general trend for students to get some work experience and sort out their finances before coming back to do an MA, whereas 20 years ago students would have come straight from their first degree.“For home students […] the challenge is to create more bursaries and sponsorships with industry to enable people to come here.“We want to be able to take on the talent, not take on the money.”Boyd, from the Knowledge Transfer Network, says: “One of the big problems is the British attitude to immigration, which makes it more difficult to employ the best talent in the world.“Visa changes that cut the time graduates can stay before going back to their own countries are a retrograde step, and will make the UK less competitive in an increasingly competitive market.”Typically, international students from countries outside the EU must apply for a The post-study work visa, which allowed students to stay for two years post-graduation and look for work in the UK, was scrapped in 2012. (And since re-election this year, Prime Minister David Cameron has reiterated his In addition, Zeegen says it can be difficult for international graduates to meet the conditions needed for UK work visas. The post-study work visa was replaced by a To be sponsored for a Zeegen says: “Unless international students make a very specific impact very quickly, they are unlikely to be able to stay in the UK, and will go back to China, Brazil, Australia, Korea or wherever.”Meanwhile, Co-founder and Chief Executive of London-based digital production design company “We had a very talented Chinese graduate who could only work for us for six months, when we would have liked to retain him.“Meanwhile another UK employee has just left us to go to another agency because he had the opportunity to go and work in New York, and could get sponsored to work there.”According to Harrow, from the RCA, “It is easier in the US to get visas to work where you studied. Here it’s a static policy, where one size fits all. In the US, I have the perception that if they want you, they will find a way.”“Overseas students looking at studying in the UK are attracted by the quality of the education and the opportunities for a strong career path,” says Harrow.But Harrow is concerned that despite the strength of Britain’s design sector, it is neither sufficiently recognised nor supported.“Internationally, the growing middle class in countries like China, Korea, Brazil and now India is creating a lot of work for designers,” he says. “These countries recognise that design is fundamental not just in terms of product development, but right across business and entrepreneurship.“There is a global interest in design, and the UK is seen as a centre of excellence, but there will be huge problems in the world to come if we don’t appreciate that Britain is in a leadership position, and support it.If the UK doesn’t take design education and the capabilities of design within industry more seriously, it will risk losing out in the long run.The market for skilled designers has expanded beyond individual borders to become increasingly international, and many home-grown students now consider employment opportunities globally rather than locally.Harrow says: “Realistically, UK students will go where the work is interesting and not necessarily be tied to a country.”Citing a student of his who intends to work in Silicon Valley on autonomous cars, he continues: “Many don’t see a UK job as their primary goal. If you have lived in London, it can be hard to do a 9 to 5 job in a parochial place, when you could follow the best work to Rio or Paris.”One of the most high-profile examples of a UK design student going on to international success is Jony Ive, now Sir Jonathan Ive and Apple’s Chief Design Officer.The man behind the iPod, iMac, iPhone, iPad and most recently the Apple Watch studied industrial design at Newcastle Polytechnic, now Northumbria University. As Harrow puts it, “Apple is a great example of how one designer can change a whole company’s fortunes.”Apple actively recruits British design graduates, and UK-trained staff account for “over half of the design team”, according to Harrow.Zeegen, from UAL, says, “Apple is very proactive in coming to London to hire some of the best designers at very early stages of their career. Students are approached by Apple within a couple of years of starting work in London, before they’ve had time to put down roots.“Apple sorts out their green cards, and then they spend the next eight to 10 years of their professional lives working in Cupertino.”Chris Duggan and Samuel Bebbington, both graduates in graphic design from the University of Brighton, represent examples of talented British designers recruited by Apple.Duggan spent more than six years with Apple in California, as a senior art director in packaging then associate creative director, before moving back to London, while more recently Bebbington joined Apple in Cupertino as an art director.UK companies such as Jaguar Land Rover and Dyson are celebrated as internationally competitive design employers, but there are concerns about whether many other UK companies are guilty of complacency.Harrow says, “UK companies tend to sit on the fence, see who’s out there and dive on graduation.”Zeegen also warns that the creative industries in the UK often presume “that the cream will rise to the top of the crop”, expecting “the best students to turn up at their door, looking for internships”.He says, “Many have not woken up to working in partnership with design education, rather than picking off the best as they arrive at their doors.”Harrow urges UK companies to “build a bridge between academia and industry”, saying that “a lot of UK companies see their job as to employ people, and the government’s job to educate people”.“What’s changing is that companies recognise the need to identify talent early, support it and build a good career path.“Employers can’t sit in their offices and wait for the best talent to come to them. Companies should attempt to engage with students earlier, through projects that enable them not just to meet the students but to present their company.”While the British government is pursuing a narrow focus on STEM subjects, The Chinese education system is “incapable of supporting individual strengths, cultivating a diversity of talents and fostering the capacity and confidence to create”, according to Dr Yong Zhao, an expert on the Chinese education system and author of As a result, China sends thousands of students to the UK or the US to learn innovation and “outside-the-box creativity”.However, says Reed of Design Council, “International competition is increasing every year. With countries in the east embracing the rise of a design-oriented educational culture, there is a risk of being left behind.“The number of design schools opening up overseas is increasing all the time — China has over 1,000, compared to just 78 here in the UK — and the quality of those schools will only improve as they move from ‘made in China’ to ‘designed in China’.”Mathers sums up the situation:We champion great design. For us that means design which improves lives and makes things better. 

For the last few weeks, gender in education has been a hot topic in the Finnish media. It’s not a new thing. We’ve been worried about the poor results boys get in tests for over a decade now. Girls It is clear that there is something going on, and not only at a national level. The OECD has aOnce we get the numbers out, we start looking for explanations. And boy do we get them. Now imagine you are a girl. You have been brought up to meet the expectations of your family and society. You do your best, you get interested in stuff, you are good at school. Then you start reading the newspaper. You read these headlines. You get acquainted with concepts like And that’s just the articles. You can just imagine what the comments say.Do you blame me for getting mad? However much I try to be rational about this, the message between the lines seems read that every time a man succeeds, it’s on his own merit, but every time a man fails, it’s because he doesn’t get the support he needs.Seriously people. Think long and carefully about how people are going to understand what you write. It’s really hard to concentrate on the fact, that there is a system-wide issue at hand, when all you can hear is “your hard work is not as valuable”.Something that really irks me is the emphasis on the traditional gender divide. Every time the learning difference between genders gets play-time, the words boy and girl flood all our discussions. Even though we know that a significant portion of our population doesn’t subscribe to the dichotomy, we start repeating stereotypes. Stereotypes are a great source for self-fulfilling prophecies. Gender is a cultural construction and as such is propagated by our choice of words.So every time we start to panic about gender differences in education, we are strengthening the idea that girls are good at school and schools are poor environments for boys. Teenagers are in the process of developing their individuality and don’t yet have the cognitive skills to push back against outside influences. 15-year-olds have the most rigid beliefs on gender norms out of all other age groups. Learning to fit in with social groups is so difficult, teenagers err on the side of fear, instead of just caution.The new Finnish Curriculum specifies in no uncertain terms (Statistics are a funny thing. Humans are not hardwired to understand them. We have to learn to ignore cognitive biases such as theMany girls are much better at maths than most boys. Many boys have incredible critical reading skills. Some kids never quite figure out what category they want to stick themselves in. Many children come from homes that support academical achievements. Many don’t.On a system wide level we really do have to think about how gender affects our education. But on an individual level — meaning the interaction between a student and a teacher — we have to let ourselves be open to who the person we are trying to help is. That’s the teacher’s job. We’re not there to think about the overall picture; that’s an administrator’s and a researcher’s job. We read their findings, reflect upon ourselves and then get on with helping each every individual in our classroom.Whether it’s a boy or a girl or whatever else that person identifies themselves as, we have to be able to give them the help they need to better themselves as an individual.Stories from the Finnish teacher incubator, rumoured to be the best in the world.Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

In the fall of 1984, Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen — then the CEO of Lego (and grandson of its founder) — happened to watch a television interview featuring MIT professor Seymour Papert. In it, Papert demonstrated how children could use the programming language he’d developed, LOGO, to control robot “turtles” — to move the robots forward and backward a specified distance, turn right or left a specified degree, drop a pen and draw.Lego had created a special education division some years earlier and with the launch of the Technic line had begun to offer construction sets with pneumatics and motors. Kristiansen was struck watching Papert by the similarities between constructionism — Papert’s theory of learning — and his own company’s philosophy about building. Kristiansen was intrigued by the possibilities of expanding Lego’s capabilities for learning and play: children should be able to build Kristiansen arranged a visit to the MIT Media Lab where Papert worked, launching the long-standing partnership between Lego and the lab.Researchers at the Media Lab were already investigating ways in which Lego and Logo could work together.Although one of the earliest applications of Logo involved the robot turtle, the advent of personal computers had moved the programming language from the floor to the screen. Lego Logo, a project developed by Mitch Resnick and Steve Ocko, moved programming back out again, into the physical world — but with some key differences, least of which being that children got to design their The Media Lab and Lego developed TC Logo (which was sold only to schools) and later Control Lab, which expanded upon the traditional Logo commands (forward, backward, turn, repeat) so as to control sensors and turn motors on and off.Like the early robot turtles, these programmable Lego constructions were still tethered to a computer with wires. So Papert wondered if it would be possible to create a Lego brick that could serve as the computer — a fully programmable brick.The design challenge was not simply to be able to control a mechanical object built out of Legos. The programmable brick had to There have been three generations of Lego Mindstorms: the Robotics Invention System (launched in 1998), Mindstorms NXT (launched in 2006), and Mindstorms EV3 (launched in 2013). It’s worth noting that, along the way, these releases have included separate (and sometimes quite different) kits for retail and for schools.The programmable brick in the first Robotics Invention System was called the RCX (Robotic Command eXplorers). It could be programmed using RCX code or ROBOLAB, which was based on LabVIEW. (This software was The NXT kit contained three servo motors, one light, sound, and distance sensor, and one touch sensor. The NXT 2.0 added another touch sensor. The brick had a 48 MHz processor with 64 KB RAM. The NXT software in the retail set was NXT-G; the education kit came with ROBOLAB.The brick in the latest model, the EV3, runs Linux. It boasts a 300 MHz processor and 64 MB RAM plus 16 MB Flash memory. It also includes a USB connector and a Micro SD slot and supports WiFi and Bluetooth connections. The education set runs a version of LabView and contains two large motors, one medium motor, two touch sensors, one color sensor, one gyroscopic sensor, and one ultrasonic sensor. The education set does not, however, contain enough Legos to build the designs in the retail set.The launch of Lego Mindstorms in 1998 coincided with the founding of the FIRST Lego League, a partnership between Lego and FIRST, a youth organization started by inventor Dean Kamen aimed at boosting student interest in engineering and technology. As Stephen Turnipseed, President Emeritus of Lego Education, told me, “When we hit the market, it caught fire.”By the time the Lego Mindstorms NXT was released in 2006, the acronym “STEM” was becoming increasingly prevalent in education debates (although it’s worth pointing out that panic about American students’ lack of preparedness in these fields is As such, Lego Education has expanded the Mindstorms product line to include the WeDo Construction set, aimed at younger students. WeDo models are still tethered to a computer and are programmed via a Scratch-like interface, not via a brick. For older, high school-age students, Lego Education also offers Tetrix, a set with metal pieces and a more rugged motor.One of the many tensions that runs through the Mindstorms product line: can you design a commercial product that meets the needs of classrooms But the importance of the retail version in driving the Mindstorms line cannot be underestimated. It is one of Lego’s bestselling products — notably, the majority of buyers are adults, and this has undoubtably shaped its development. The differences between the retail and education versions are fairly significant — but they’re cultural and pedagogical, not just technological.This is perhaps best exemplified by an article in “In Billund, Denmark, not only is the customer always right, he’s also a candidate for the RD team,” The Lego hobbyist community has long been influential, and the company has wisely courted it. Shortly after the launch of the original Mindstorms, Kekoa Proudfoot Lego wanted an open platform for Mindstorms, says Turnipseed, and so it needed to “allow an ecosystem to be created around the product.”While Mindstorms has remained fairly tinkerable, it’s debatable whether or not it’s always been open as in welcoming to all users. The titles of some of the early Lego Mindstorms expansion sets: RoboSports, Extreme Creatures, the (Star Wars-branded) Droid Developer Kit, the Dark Side Developer Kit, and SpyBotics. These, along with the “battle bot” framing of some of the early robotics competitions, were clearly not marketed to girls.Unfortunately, this echoes the history of Lego the toy. The earliest bricks were marketed to boys To its credit, Lego has taken some of this criticism about the gendered design and marketing of the product to heart in the latest educational version — particularly important as studies have shown girls’ interest in STEM But the retail models still imply robotics are a boy’s world; they include Gripp3r, Spik3r, R3ptar — a spiked grappling robot, a scorpion, and a rattlesnake.Just as some yearn for the “good old days” of gender-neutral marketing, there’s a nostalgia too for a time when Lego’s sets were more open-ended. Sure, there were still pictures on the box showing what you Moreover, in the last few decades, Lego has found In some ways, the educational version of Mindstorms faces a similar problem as it struggles to balance imagination with instructions. As the product have become more popular in schools, Lego Education has added new features that make Mindstorms more amenable to the classroom, easier for teachers to use: portfolios, curriculum, data-logging and troubleshooting features for teachers, and so on.That constructionist element is still there, of course — in Lego the toy and in Lego Mindstorms. Children of all ages continue to build amazing things. Yet as Mindstorms has become a more powerful platform — in terms of its engineering capabilities and its retail and educational success — it has paradoxically perhaps also become a less playful one.But as it’s a Lego — and therefore compatible with all the other Lego bricks — you can still take that programmable brick out of the Mindstorms kit — out of the curriculum, out of the robotics competitions, beyond the step-by-step instructions, beyond the picture on the cover of the box.You can build your education writer, recovering academic, serial dropout, ed-tech’s Cassandra, author of The Monsters of Education Technology. (And coming soon: Teaching Machines)Essays on the history of ed-tech

The provisions establishing exceptions to copyright (ie. provisions allowing the use of work without a consent of a copyright owner) are among the most important provisions in copyright law. But provisions establishing an exception to copyright for educational purposes are especially important. The rationale for this exception seems simple: we have a collective public interest in supporting education and learning, and these interests should take precedence over exclusive rights of copyright owners. Let’s try to figure out what we’d expect from a modern educational exception to copyright. In our post we’ll explore four principles that should be the basis for a education exception.The legislation establishing the educational exception should not take into consideration The development of technology gives us a chance to make the process of education more egalitarian and far more diverse — more so than it was even 10 years ago. We should seize the opportunity of including non-formal education processes into the category that can be covered by educational exceptions to copyright.Teachers today have tough jobs: they have to manage students with varying learning styles, meet standardized education objectives, and continue to build and refine their teaching skills. With all this and more, teachers in the 21st century should not have to also overcome obstacles such as lack of access to educational resources. Many of these materials are within reach online. When teachers are looking for employment they should not have to consider which institution is able to afford all the licenses for the educations materials they wish to utilize in their teaching. And teachers should not have to depend the quality of the education they’re able to deliver based on legal agreements schools have made with publishers. Teachers should be given a wide berth to utilize the educational content that is best suited to meet the specific teaching and learning objectives for their students. They should not have to worry about copyright law and potential infringement penalties. Today we have the opportunity to make this possible, but we’re not there yet.On the internet you can find one of the best tools for learning foreign languages — YouTube. Thanks to that students do not have to buy exclusive books with professional recordings on CD created by voiced actors who were hired by university publishing houses. This is unnecessary, because you can find for them a valuable free video in which they will hear the language in its natural, everyday sound. If necessary you can show your charges the movie about lynx from Bialowieża Forest or about picea sitchensis from Alaska — you don’t need to import a DVD disc from the other end of the world. And copyright law should allow you to do that, regardless of the following factors:1) who you are;2) who your students are;3) where do you watch the videos.The use of copyrighted works under an education exception should take into account only one aspect: whether teachers are using the materials for educational purposes.The educational exception should be neutral in terms of technology. It shouldn’t matter Through initiatives such as We must not bind the hands of schools in utilizing copyrighted materials and technologies that can change society for the better. We need to allow teachers to take advantage of the many new resources available to them, instead of requiring them to use outdated materials and methods. Schools have the opportunity to focus less on providing information to students, but to teach how to find resources and build skills and competences in their students to learn in a modern way. How can we expect schools to educate future generations if we do not give them the capability to use modern tools to prepare students for lifelong learning and productive careers?Clarity is important so that teachers know exactly In several countries teachers have the legal opportunity to show the movie within the education exception but at the same time they’re afraid to do so. And school directors, to be on the safe side, prefer to purchase a license pack from specialized for this purpose companies whose business model is based on the visiting schools and threatening copyright infringements. And such licence packs can be very expensive — An unclear law creates more confusion, needless costs (financed by public money), and time spent inefficiently by teachers on how they need to work around the law instead of focusing on providing a quality education with the resources and tools they require.We have to remember, however, that we cannot have our cake and eat it too. That is to say: the more the detailed and complex the law is, the more difficult it is to apply in situations which do not fit to the cases foreseen in its drafting. There needs to be a balance between clear rules that teachers can understand, and a flexibility in the law that can include uses in education not within our understanding (technological or social) today.The education exception should be mandatory for all member states of the European Union.In the previous principles we discussed how we can write up the best education exception suited for a digital society. This exception, even if written up in a copyright directive, means nothing if the different member states in Europe implement it differently. As we have seen with the implementation of the Information Society Directive, giving member states the option to ignore certain exceptions leads to a patchwork of copyright rules in Europe that makes it extremely difficult to promote cross-border educational activities. Europe wants to adopt a Digital Single Market strategy, and a mandatory exception for education would help greatly to meet that goal.Lawyer, scholar. Maruta Wachta / Centrum Cyfrowe Projekt:Polska / University of BiałystokOn education  copyright reform

Terrific discussion on the role of innovation in education reform! I’d like to add two critical points:First, I think there’s a crucial voice missing here. In education, as in business, we often make the fundamental mistake of failing to consult our consumers in the design of our product. And in a conversation about innovation in education — led by an expert in design thinking — we can’t forget who the consumers of education are: Second, last year America’s Promise researchers interviewed hundreds of young people who left school without graduating (“In all the talks about innovation, it’s worth noting that so much of what students need isn’t particularly innovative.And what they need, more than anything, to do that is the engagement of adults who care enough to tutor, mentor, coach, guide and love them.President  CEO, This is a collection for articles about education.

Today’s students are not inspired beyond their need to superficially succeed — how can we care so damn much about a single letter? The same is true outside of formal education, where in the so-called “real world” we are told to make more money, to gain more followers, to take more calls, to work more hours, blah blah blah.We need to stop pushing for a data-driven world while it continues to diminish our culture, our humanity, our emotional well-being. We always have the opportunity to exchange our need for profit-driven efficiency for the effectiveness of helping people — making the world a happier place. Why don’t we? Are humans so selfish and so greedy that we forget to care, to think? Receiving a high numerical performance indicator or a workplace promotion in today’s society doesn’t make a good person; it simply makes for an efficient human. Efficiency is great, but is not sufficient.At the end of the day, we need to stop worrying about test scores, profits, and all that crap. Those should not alone be the goals—instead, they ought to be measurable byproducts of doing what is good for the world!In education, we should value curiosity and learning for the sake of being better human beings—not the ability to score highly on an upcoming test.In business, we should value the impact a company’s goods or services have on its consumers — not the margins it has every quarter.Overall, We need to stop our assembly line mentality and create a less-conformist world. No educational track or profession should be more valued by society than another (why are we so heavily promoting STEM so as to eliminate learning the arts and the humanities?).If someone is bad at math, and has no inspiration to get better (and no one to correctly motivate him), then why must we coerce him through two more years of unhappiness when he could instead be learning more about anthropology or art or business and making a real difference in those areas?Students should never be miserable, yet so many are. They are stressed, they are competing. It is unhealthy and degrading all involved. What if we as a society focused on promoting passion and purpose instead of grades, funding, numbers? That is the world I would like to live in.Coffee addict. Working on my next venture.Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

I’ve been thinking about what the optimal state for my productivity is. As my good friend For the following blog post, we are going to use “water” as the metaphor for educational content.The state that I find myself most productive is Instead in states of “At Brown, we have the chance to choose our classes. You can think of each class as a pipe that feeds into our obligations and scheduling to increase/decrease the amount of “structured stress” we receive from the school.However, at the moment, there is limited feedback between the pipes (school) and the container (student). If you take on too much “structured stress”, your container will overflow. The only control you have right now is to shut down the pipe completely (i.e. drop a class), but on a week-by-week basis, you do not have much ability to control the stress you are receiving, giving a time series over a semester of ups and downs.Finally, the contents of the pipes are different — and some mix well together, reinforcing your learning, or allowing you to study the same subject from different angles, while others are completely immiscible (they don’t mix at all, like oil and water).Some open questions:Thinking about education this way, it seems like we are just at the very, very beginning of a dynamic, responsive education system.Data Scientist, Synthesizer of Interesting Thoughts

Six Republican leaders are set to take the stage Wednesday at the 2015 New Hampshire Education Summit to talk about the state (and future) of K-12 education with The Seventy Four’s Campbell Brown. Watch for highlights from the summit on Over the last two weeks, we have been compiling background dossiers — and summarizing the education platforms — of Wednesday’s speakers. (We’ve also published Jeb Bush, along with John Kasich, is one of two GOP candidates to support the Common Core. The issue was already raised at the first debate, when Bush defended his K-12 record and support for the Core:(Read our full report: Long known for his battles with teachers unions as an entity and with individual teachers at meetings and town halls throughout the Garden State, Christie hasn’t backed down from his criticism. Last month on CNN, the New Jersey governor said the American Federation of Teachers deserves “a punch in the face.” He went on to add:(Read our full report: Although the former Hewlett Packard CEO has a less extensive record on education than the others at the summit, she has been vocal about her opposition to Common Core and her support for provisions in recently passed GOP bills to overhaul No Child Left Behind. She wrote about it for the Iowa Republican.(Read our full report here: The Louisiana governor pushed an ambitious education reform agenda in his state, expanding vouchers and overhauling teacher tenure laws. Jindal also opposes Common Core, and went so far as to sue the federal Education Department and Secretary Arne Duncan over it. He wrote about his then-newfound opposition to Common Core in USA Today in 2014.(Read our full report: Kasich, the governor of Ohio, advocated for a state school funding formula that sent more money to poor districts than wealthy ones. He did not succeed but reached a compromise with legislators that boosted overall spending by $950 million and raised per-pupil aid.(Read our full report: The latest budget Walker signed as Wisconsin governor expands the state’s voucher program, lifting caps from 1,000 students statewide to a set percentage of students in each district, a figure that is set to grow each year. He has in the past called vouchers a “moral imperative.”(Read our full report: Photos by Getty ImagesThe Seventy Four is a non-profit, non-partisan news site covering education in America.

I have the same problem with this as I have with other student-directed education programs: students don’t know what they need.Development skills are great to have, but ignoring math, science, history, English and communications, and so on, leads pretty much to to what I term “savant” developers. They’re extremely skilled in one subject area… and effectively ignorant in everything else.Further, true disruptions come not just from being able to program an app, but by combining that knowledge with other problem domains. An app developer with a background in math or science or medicine is going to be able to make a lot more impact that one who just knows how to stuff information into a UITableView.

The BRCKWhen we set out to build the BRCK, we wanted to take care of the rampant connectivity and power issues that prevent many people in the developing world from being as efficient or as effective in their jobs. We did this, and we ended up becoming one of Kenya’s first consumer electronics’ companies. We were very excited about this, and the recognition we were getting, but the BRCK was built to be much more. When it was designed, we included a USB port and a micro web server, that at the time, just seemed like cool features. Over time, we came to appreciate that they were so much more. You could access content from the BRCK but we felt this was not enough, so we combined the BRCK with a Raspberry Pi computing module to give it a bit of a boost. This enabled access to rich and interactive websites and content, from the same rugged form factor as the original BRCK.There are numerous challenges facing education in developing countries. Since the BRCK together with the Pi, enables access of locally-cached and web-hosted content, we thought it could prove a useful tool to both teachers, pupils and students if they could access up-to-date educational materials, and give them an edge and enable them to compete with schools with more resources. This was in line with our ethos of promoting equality in education and levelling the playing field by using the same technologies as the rest of the world but tweaked to our particular context. At BRCK Education, we do not think the only sources of knowledge and information in a classroom should be teachers and textbooks. The four walls of a classroom should not limit a child’s access to learning, playing and growing. This technology, however, cannot replace the role of a teacher. It makes access to information much easier.President of BRCK Education Nivi MukherjeeThe easiest way to deliver educational content to pupils and students is through tablet computers. Initially, tablets, even the ones made for schools, were not durable and did not have the kind of features we needed: a long battery life, an easy-to-use interface and some sort of durability. Pupils using the Kio TabletHaving the tablets was well and good, but tablets need to be charged. One of the barriers to using tablets effectively is the inconvenience of remembering to charge them and the fact that charging cables break frequently. Also, tablets present a security fear: they are small and can be easily stolen. So, how about a rugged kit, that provides both the charging and security needed for the tablets in one go? The Kio Kit. It comes with wireless charging and is lockable, and in case a tablet is taken away from it, we built the firmware to prevent flashing of its operating system. The Kio Kit can hold and charge 40 tablets, each of which can run for 8 hours on a single charge.The Kio KitWhat we are doing is not just selling technology. We passionately believe in our ability to positively impact the quality of learning of pupils and students in Kenya. But, we cannot do this alone. We are proud that both local and international organizations, both big and small, have joined us to make this dream a reality. The Kio Kit will be available for pre-order today, limited availability begin on November 1st and we expect general availability from January 1st 2016. The Kio Kit will go for USD 5,000 and a Kio Tablet will go for USD 100.For more information, you can visit our website at Rugged internet. Stay connected. The go anywhere, do anything, self-powered, mobile WiFi device. Designed in Nairobi, Kenya.

I arrived in Tokyo, Japan last night, and this morning, I was proud to stand with Mrs. Akie Abe, the wife of Japan’s Prime Minister, as we Mrs. Abe and I are both passionate about girls’ education — as are our husbands — and Japan is one of America’s strongest and most important allies. Japan and the United States also share so many values. We are both democracies and believe strongly in freedom of speech and religion and protecting the basic rights of all our citizens. Both our countries care deeply about education. And both America and Japan believe in helping other countries that have fewer resources — countries where people struggle with poverty and disease and where many young people, particularly girls, don’t have the chance to attend school.As part of our new partnership, both Japan and the U.S. will be investing in programs that will help girls around the world get an education. As I mentioned in my The Peace Corps is a government program through which Americans can sign up to volunteer for about two years in countries across the globe. Peace Corps volunteers live and work in the communities they serve, and they do all sorts of projects — from working at public health clinics, to helping farmers grow more crops, to teaching in local schools and after school programs.Hundreds of these volunteers will then work side-by-side with local leaders, teachers, families and girls themselves to come up with solutions to the That’s really how Peace Corps volunteers approach their work — not by coming into communities and acting like they have all the answers, because they don’t, but by working with, and learning from, the people they serve. That’s how they can come to understand the barriers girls face in getting an education — and how they can help address those barriers.This account is run by the Office of First Lady Michelle Obama. Notes may be archived: Working together to open the doors of education for girls around the world.

COUPLE Nico and Terry Tuason’s two-year-old child loves to play on the iPad. This prompted them to look for educational games but found only English titles meant for children in other countries, none for the Philippines.Nico, an independent game developer, and Terry decided to make one for Filipino children. The two built Halina’t Bumasa, a startup that will create educational apps to promote early literacy and love for Filipino culture, and pitched it to IdeaSpace, the startup incubator and accelerator of the Manny V. Pangilinan group of companies.Last Friday, Halina’t Bumasa was named one of 10 startups IdeaSpace will be incubating for 2015. The couple got P500,000 in seed funding and an equivalent grant amount in incubation services to turn Halina’t Bumasa into a sustainable business.Terry said they would release the first app, which is in Filipino, in two to three months. Nico said they would sell it for between $1 to $3 since offering it for free and monetizing through ads is not an option because of privacy issues, especially that the users are children.Terry said they would also produce Bisaya, Ilonggo and other versions.Making it to the top 10 was another education-related startup by another couple: FrontLearners by Leo and Elaine De Velez. FrontLearners is a platform for “blended learning,” where lessons are supplemented by digital resources. The platform still works even in areas without an internet connection, via a Wi-Fi access point that broadcasts the resource within the local area network of a school.FrontLearners charges a per-student fee for private institutions but is free for public schools. The lessons are K-to-12 compliant, they said.Leo said the program is also their way of giving back to the country since he and his wife are “iskolar ng bayan,” having graduated from Philippine Science High School and the University of the Philippines, where tuition is subsidized by the government, and getting Department of Science and Technology grants.Leo used to work for Shell while Elaine was with Johnson and Johnson. They have retired and are working on FrontLearners, which used to be UberLessons, full time. Leo said they had to spend retirement money on it. He said the IdeaSpace funding will allow them to implement the program in more schools.The De Velezes have long been working to use technology in education, starting with the use of animated GIFs for Math lessons with math-center.com in 1998 to a portal to share lesson plans and an online review center for Philippine Science High School.The other startups that made it to the top 10 are Businessman Manuel V. Pangilinan told the other startups that didn’t make it to the final 10 not to be discouraged. “Every failure is a step toward success,” Pangilinan said.IdeaSpace co-founder Earl Valencia said the initiative is “another step to creating a Philippine economy powered by Science and Technology.”Valencia said IdeaSpace was conceptualized to solve problems of the country. In evaluating startups, he said they always ask whether there is a need, a specific technology edge for the team, and a significant market size for the product or service.IdeaSpace co-founder Marthyn Cuan said that in this year’s batch, they “front loaded a lot of the support” to startups, making the process the “equivalent to an incubation.” Each team got P50,000 to build a prototype for final judging.Valencia said that this year, IdeaSpace got more than a thousand applications. He said there were entries from 15 countries outside the Philippines.Max is a blogger and a technology columnist of a newspaper in Cebu City, Philippines. He is a co-founder of journalism startup InnoPub Media.Drafts of a retired deadline chaser

Last Thursday, I was kindly invited by At 42, education is entirely free of charge. There are no teacher, and no opening hours. 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, students enter the modern 12 million euro complex through electronic gates which greets them by name. Learning is done in a peer to peer fashion by forming groups with fellow students and addressing increasingly complex challenges. On one student’s screen, I’m shown an e-learning intranet not too dissimilar from what you might find on Codeacademy. However, 42 isn’t about learning ‘flavour of the month’ web frameworks: while the flexible course units may be completed at your own pace and in the order the student’s choosing, we’re talking hardcore C development here — prompting Kwame to joke that the curriculum ‘eases up into C++ the second year’. The people who will be graduating out of 42 will entering the workforce engineering new embedded hardware solutions, or work on complex security and networking protocol challenges. 42 might be free, but it certainly means business.42 was created by Xavier Neil, a French billionaire who launched France’s first internet service provider and is now recognised as one of the most active angel investor in the world. My initial cynicism that 42 might be a ploy to recruit cheap programmers for Neil’s behemoth ISP, Free, was quickly dispelled by the sheer scale of the school. And the numbers speak for themselves: 1,000 seats with fully kitted out iMacs, 1,600 students, and 12 millions euros invested to develop the ‘start-trek meets street art’ building alone. A cursory Google search shows that in total, Neil put up 60 million dollars of his personal money and expects absolutely no profit whatsoever.It is difficult to overstate how genuinely groundbreaking the school is. In fact, 42 could be to education what the hyperloop will be to transportation. France has roughly 6,500 students currently in their 5th year of CS studies. 42 alone adds a whopping 1,000 free spaces. To think that a privately funded effort can add approximately 15% more capacity to an entire country’s pool of potential future software engineers is simply astonishing.At 42, every room, every object oozes geekiness. ‘Someone’ hacked the electronic gate system and replaced the formal greeting with their favourite sound effects. The lift itself has received ‘aftermarket’ modifications and was transformed into an impromptu LED-powered disco. The ceiling lights at the canteen have been individually addressed using dip switches, networked, and now make for an excellent albeit rather gigantic game of Tetris. Everything about this space gives out the feeling of having entered the set of a “Weird Science” episode — and much of it puts would put many tech startups to shame.But 42 isn’t the domain of pretentious future techno-elites either. In fact, it’s rather the opposite. France has had, and continues to have, a serious integration problem with education combined with appalling brain drain statistics. While it’s the word’s 6th economic power, it lags in 20th position in terms of digital economy. As a French citizen, it pains me to see the OCDE listing France as one of the worst in the world in terms of access to education. Free universities churn out students struggling to find work in an industry where recruiters prefer practical experience over academic credentials, while private ones stay the privileged realm of a socio-economical upper class. Kwame and his colleagues lament France’s broken ‘social elevator’, and see 42 as a way to correct this injustice.“It’s not your parent’s wallet that will dictate your success, it’s your work” — explains Kwame, wearing an unassuming shell suit and speaking a French that’s a lot more flourished that one might expect. Some within France’s ageing educational system might scoff at this unlikely figure, yet Kwame has exactly the attitude that France needs: much less pomp and far more substance. I left France 19 years ago frustrated by the country’s inability to adapt to new business paradigms — yup, je suis le brain-drain — so Kwame’s forward-thinking message certainly resonated with my own convictions.Nothing illustrates this meritocratic approach to work better than 42’s application process. A sole entry criterion: to be aged between 18 and 30. The only personal data that 42 gathers are the applicant’s first name, last name, and email address. But joining is no walk in the park, either. Out of 70,000 applications this year, 20,000 will pass the online test, but only 3,000 will enter the ‘piscine’, or pool, a month-long evaluation of practical study. Ultimately, just under 1,000 will enter 42 after this gruelling exercise that can often amount to one hundred hours of study per week. What’s most extraordinary is that 40% of those who make the cut do not even hold the Baccalauréat, France’s main high school diploma, without which one has no chance to enter traditional universities. On that statistic alone, it is evident 42 has accomplished its stated goal of “Integrating Everyone”, conscious that it’s often within youth groups not recognised by the current system where it could uncover the most important talents.42 is a undoubtedly a success. During my visit the space was buzzing with activity and most of the 1,000 seats were filled, with groups spontaneously forming, exchanging ideas, helping each other out with exercises. The students I met showed a sense of deep-seated respect for the resources provided and clearly were proud of being part of 42. Some were scrubbing floors and cleaning windows as part of the playfully named “Travaux d’intérêt général”, or ‘Community Service’. In fact, 42 felt like anything but a school, but instead, more of city within a city — one with its own rites, its own culture, it’s own lingo.Concluding the tour, we made our way to the ‘bocal’, the office where a skeleton administrative crew mans the computer systems managing the building. Clement asks me what I think of the place, and dizzied by what I just discovered, I can only blurt out: “Where was this stuff when I was 18?”. As make our way back to the tag covered metro, we pass by a billboard advertising a expo where students are invited to ‘find out what they will do after their Baccalauréat’. In a country where unemployment is at an all time high, I couldn’t help but note the irony of the billboard’s question when the answer to France’s educational problems was seemingly standing just a few meters away.CCO Decentralized Future

Unless you have been living under a rock, you have heard about, watched the video, or shared your opinion regarding the latest watershed incident regarding yet another black body and the police state that is now engulfing the United States. This time it was Sandra Bland. Some (privileged bodies) still adamantly feel that we should leave issues like this outside of the classroom. My argument: What is the purpose of education if we are not going to talk about issues that affect our communities?After watching the video, I Instead of taking up arms (which is seemingly more of a possibility with every additional instance), we need to strategically use the weapon of education to arm our future so instances like Sandra Bland cease to occur. There is only one way to do this. We must have candid conversations within the confines of educational spaces so that we can hear from minds that are not so institutionalized to the point where they argue that Sandra Bland Along some Cornel Westish train of logic, many are pointing the finger by saying blacks are to blame for their predicament, I grow more tired each day battling people with these mentalities. What makes it worse is that many of these people are By ignoring these issues in our classrooms, we are prescribing to a status quo logic that dates back decades. A mantra that upholds the ideal of, “let us educate Educator, blogger, speaker, and Anti-Racism activist. The blog, Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

In the past two or three years the popular rhetoric of “education reform” has, on more than one occasion, rubbed me the wrong way. The words we use, particularly those of us who had the privilege of top-notch educations, often seem discordant with the actual experiences of people living the struggle on a daily basis. “Speak your own truth,” I learned in college. Yet, as education reform leaders, we do not always speak our own truths — rather, we profess to speak the truth for people whose backgrounds we do not share.A recent example: Democrats for Education Reform, whose D.C. chapter I lead, tweeted yesterday the following quote from LBJ.“Education is the only valid passport from poverty.” I read those words, and, as someone who benefited from a rigorous (and expensive) K-12 and college education, they sounded inspiring.And yet… something didn’t feel right.I mulled it over for a few minutes before remembering In the essay, the author, Elizabeth Waterhouse, talks about how her husband’s financial resources and what we might call the knowledge of “privilege”— of navigating financial forms and documents, of applying to college, of finding a therapist and appropriate health care — helped her graduate from college at 26.Reading this story as an “education reformer” made me think — and made me question LBJ’s words. Is education the We with privilege like to think that those in poverty can work, learn, and simply A good friend of mine, Lelac Almagor, is a teacher at a public charter school in Washington, D.C., with outstanding academic results. About a year ago she wrote This line of thinking, as Almagor points out, is more traditionally the “conservative” view. In her piece, she also highlights a more “liberal” view among social justice-motivated ed reformers — certainly the circles I often find myself in here in Washington, D.C. And yet I worry that the conservative view may be what we inadvertently imply by using dramatic education reform rhetoric that is exclusive of other pathways out of poverty, such as the social capital Waterhouse benefited from.So: what about other creative approaches to combating poverty? Social innovators in a variety of sectors are developing rigorous, research-backed approaches to alleviating poverty and providing pathways to the middle class. I personally find In education reform, we like rigor. We like data. We like the econometric analyses done by labor economists like Eric Hanushek, Caroline Hoxby, Jonah Rockoff, and Roland Fryer. And just as I hope that policy-makers and electeds consider the evidence as they make education policy, I hope we as education policy wonks and advocates (and when I say “we” I largely mean white, privileged education advocates like me) consider the evidence that education may not be the We should still work tirelessly to improve our schools and end educational inequity. We can be fierce, compassionate, loud advocates for high-quality education, for parental choice, for increasing access to college preparatory classes, for rigorous academic standards like the Common Core. And we can hold all those thoughts in our minds at the same time that we believe that education is This post was in part inspired by conversations I have had and continue to have with wonderful friends and advocates who often tweet with the #EdForward hashtag, including @A collection of awesome stories about education on Medium.com

Since the founding of this nation, we have recognized the need for the government to subsidize education. Education benefits the student. It benefits the society. We all gain from an educated people.But over the last 20 years, we have lost sight of this fundamental truth. The consequence is a level of student debt that has created a national crisis. That debt now stands at $1.2 trillion — more than auto loans ($1 trillion), credit card debt ($7oo million), or home equity loans ($500 million). We need a workforce that is free to experiment and learn, not one that’s terrified into dead-end jobs. No one should have to sell his soul to pay his debts.The current crisis has been caused by a system that puts the weakest player (the student) in the middle of two very powerful forces (lenders and educators).I don’t believe the data show that subsidized student loans alone have caused education costs to rise. Much more significant has been the radical reduction in aid to education. But whatever the mix of causes, we must recognize an obvious point: As colleges increase costs, and the governments reduce educational subsidies, the weakest negotiator in this mix, the student, has been put in the middle. Faced with the choice between assuming endless debt or giving up a college education, most choose debt.We need to avoid policies that remove the incentive of colleges to keep costs low. Our government needs to recommit to the principle at the core of American values since Jefferson — that society must subsidize education.I would therefore support a substantial increase in federal subsidies to research and public educational institutions. I would press for policies that would forgive a portion of existing student debt, and permit students to refinance their debt at a low rate. I would support policies that condition federal subsidies for public education on efforts to restrain costs. And I would oppose policies that rely exclusively on students to create market pressure to keep educational costs in check.I would also push Congress to support the policies of open access to scientific and educational material. There is no reason the American tax payer should have to pay for access to research that the federal government has funded. That research should be freely licensed. And as Open Education Resource activists have convincingly shown, we could radically decrease the cost of education material at both the primary and secondary level if the federal government supported the use of freely licensed textbooks. If we assigned just one open text book nationally, we could reduce the cost of textbooks by more than $2 billion.These policies would be blocked today by the powerful lobbies that support the existing federal subsidy to banks through loan guarantees, and the powerful private education market, whose students absorb a high proportion of student debt and have the highest default rates. The banks want complete deregulation — except for the government guarantees. Their potential profits translate into a very powerful lobby against reform.To return to To return to law professor, reformer, hopeful “referendum president.”Lessig’s position on key issues. By Lessig. Comment, criticize, ask questions.

I once asked two school superintendents why they so proudly displayed the achievements of their high school athletes and marching band but not their star academic pupils. They responded by saying that the athletes and musicians contributed joy and school spirit to the community, while the academic students really only served themselves. After picking myself off the floor, I realized that for school leaders to support their academically gifted students they need to see abilities translated into something concrete that lends itself to school pride.That seminal moment in my career encapsulates a point of resistance from policymakers and the wider education community that arises from unease with the vague concept of superior intelligence or academic ability. If the gifts of outstanding athletes and musicians are more palatable than that of academically talented students, what are some lessons that gifted education can learn from the preparation of performers?Gifted education should focus on talent in Potential talent must be developed into expertise. How does this happen? Communities need to offer high-quality opportunities in multiple valued talent domains, particularly in the early grades. Any child or adolescent who responds enthusiastically and consistently to a school subject or topic needs a chance to pursue it more deeply with guidance from knowledgeable adults. At the same time, students with potential abilities and intense interest also need to be willing to devote themselves to study and/or practice that will help them develop their talent.Mental skills are the bread and butter of top athletes, trial lawyers, chess players, surgeons, and musicians. Although some people seem to acquire these psychosocial skills naturally, these skills can be taught explicitly. Academically talented children need coaching in strategic risk-taking, dealing constructively with setbacks, and maintaining self-confidence. They also need sufficient social skills to generate and keep supporters — especially when their ideas get more controversial or boundary breaking.Gifted identification should be by domain. A gifted program in mathematics or acquisition of second languages could start in early elementary school, while acceptance into a research program in social science domains need not start until high school.Gifted programs could be more useful to participating students if they were organized for the long term. Like good athletic or music coaches, gifted coordinators in a district should be thinking about a pathway for talented children as their abilities emerge. If particular middle and high school programs in the district are especially good at developing talent in mathematics, then mathematically gifted elementary students should be guided to those schools or programs. Coordinators can also help student with long-term preparation for competitions or submissions of creative work, even if they cross over the transition between elementary and middle or middle and high school.Let’s provide more exposure to our children about the wonders of various intellectual domains. More importantly, let’s offer these strategically such that they capitalize on what we know about Innovation in Education

It isn’t a secret that As a teacher, I got tired of being told how to do my job by people who have never taught or volunteered time in a classroom…people who hadn’t been a student at any level in over 15 years. The same people who openly say they couldn’t do what I do for a living, but knew exactly how to tell me to do it. That was pretty frustrating.In order to deal with that frustration, I added If you’re not familiar with education reform in the United States, you could look at it this way: “Teachers demonized, corporations edified, and politicians ‘test’-ified.”Teacher bashing isn’t anything new. In fact, it’s been happening for a long time in the rhetoric surrounding education “reforms” like No Child Left Behind and Race to the Top. Both of which, I might add, happened under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (PL 89-10) which was enacted under Lyndon B. Johnson in 1967.Let me be perfectly clear: Congress hasn’t looked at the base of ESEA since it was passed into law nearly 40 years ago.Education reform can’t happen under policies that are four decades old.This time, education “reform” is being led by millionaires likePoliticians and policy makers seem to think that the only way to measure student growth is through standardized testing. Some have even New Jersey isn’t alone in their testing love affair. Last year, North Carolina students in Secretary of Education Arne Duncan is Even President Obama thinks the testing is beginning to go too far, as evidenced by this But again, when he gets back to Washington, more of the same poor policy being trumpeted as “reform.”Education reform can’t happen when the policies of leaders aren’t in line with their rhetoric.Each of these groups is completely missing the point of education reform. Right now, reform is being driven by a need to look accountable to constituents. Plain and simple. Politicians can say they improved education by passing new laws. And “reformers?” Well, they can add it to their list of accomplishments as they try to grab more power.Teachers aren’t just rolling over. Across the country, we are seeing Meanwhile, children, teachers, schools, and With each new policy comes new expectations, requirements, and overhead that limits the freedom teachers have in the classroom to provide rich learning experiences for their students. Rather than crushing innovation, school leaders need to be brave enough to support freedom for teachers to take risks and reap lasting rewards.I taught chemistry for four years, and I’ll be the first to admit that I was Think back to your favorite teacher. I find it amazing that we can all answer that question. Now, ask yourself: Why was Teachers are powerful when they make connections. My favorite teachers (Mr. Kevin Mead, Dr. Alan Smith, and Mr. Sean Jessop) stood out because they took time to make sure they knew who we were. Teachers go out of their way to connect with students. Teachers make a difference in the lives of thousands of children across the country every day.And all through education “reform,” that privilege is slowly being taken away, not because they’ve done something wrong, but because policymaker’s priorities are in the wrong place.We need education reform because our system is breaking. Test scores aren’t the indicator. We see it when Education reformers are missing the point.So, what’s it going to take? It isn’t easy. All of our policymakers are good at talking, but not so great at listening. I want to encourage you to support your local school, even if you don’t have children. Find ways to help improve communities by being brave enough to write letters or make phone calls. Read between the lines of the rhetoric and see if it matches with the actions as they play out. We cannot allow these “reforms” to become the norm, lest we lose our schools.Im a science teacher learning with students in a flipped classroom. Teacher, writer, speaker, learner, creator of #flipclass chat. Lets start a conversation.Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Values worth having are not done so blindly. They must be examined critically and thoroughly in the harsh light of day by every generation. We must be deliberate in choosing and supporting our values if they are to have, well, Real education is the water that cleans the grit of fear and ignorance out of our eyes. It washes away the superstition that allows us to be cowardly and hateful. It clears the way for us to see the possibilities that our lives could have free of the detritus of fearful tradition to trip us up. The Not only do the things in the hate column inspire hate, they also try their best to destroy those things in the love column — the things that are a part of the I’m not talking about revolution. Subversion is more akin to quiet resistance Real education teaches the subtleties in life — the nuances. It teaches us to revel in ambiguity, not run from it. Contradiction is a time for consideration and dialog, not Yet, the demagogy that teaches absolutes and obeisance might also be a necessary part of education, only in giving the truly educated something to Only after getting through my first two years as an undergraduate did I begin to get a real education. In these classes, I took an active part in my learning; instead of sitting in grids, we sat around conference tables; instead of being told what I should be learning, I was able to discover the Maybe this is why I have always liked computers. Again, Stephenson gives us a look at a potential future for education in While much of education is the learning of what our parents and other authorities say is I teach subversion.Christopher Hitchens, one of the intellects that guided my thought over the years, died yesterday (this post was originally published on December 16, 2011). He never taught me English Professor  Digital Humanist; I teach literature, new media studies, and writing for digital media. Writings on changing the status quo. Want to submit? Go to 

“Those who refuse to embrace will suffer it” — quite a sharp comment for a government official. In his talk on educational Technology in June 10th, 2013, the French former minister of education’s tone is rather fatalistic.The reason for so much drama is that in France, education is historically defined as the process through which citizens are born and fostered. School is the window of the 3 Republican pillars :Liberty - recognised as a human right by the Declaration of 26 August 1789, it is the fundamental value that puts a man in the subject position to citizenship status.Globalisation kicked in and with the expansion of capitalism, the political dominance has translated on the economic field. Education has now become a liberal market, disrupted on all levels by the new technology revolution. The emergence of new actors that aim to equip millennials and Gen Zs with knowledge, know-how and skills required on the labour market.Welcome to a serie of articles analysing the tension between the weight of the Educative Institution’s legacy and their urge to innovate in order to survive. Let’s explore the growing gap between the French Education and the reality of the workplace, analyse the clash between public authorities and edtech disruptors and debate whether faithfulness to our Republican values is a blocker to innovation.

Is college the only means for someone to enjoy a meaningful and fulfilling life?Is using the college catalogue to choose a degree more beneficial than using the world to peak interests and ignite passions and inspire creativity?Is a grade the end-all, be-all determinating factor of potential and possibility?Is a classroom the only place for education to take place?Is the instructor the authority figure or the illuminator?Is the student merely a mass product on a conveyor belt or an individual mind to be challenged and nurtured?Is education better off being about enrollment or graduation?Is education really about learning?social change enthusiast / psychology instructor / workplace culture change facilitator / public speaker / blogger/vloggerAuthentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

In Silicon Valley there is a class of start-up known as Unicorns, identified by their $1 billion valuation. Reading All about #world positive investing for Obvious, and I’d argue the same for the others. Let’s see more investors take the plunge in education, specifically with educators.It feels a bit goofy, but I love how a fashion brand like Geoffrey Beane decided to highlight and raise up the work of actual scientists. We need more just like it.Those are just a couple. What else is out there? Who are the unicorns we should be supporting? How might we cultivate more of them?a guy who does stuff 

Our Institutions need to lace a higher emphasis on education throughout life. Learning can begin at home or in Pre-K through discovery and play. As one of our attendees brought up “As we grow older, we decide to pursue higher education to benefit us, but as our attendee continues, “In the same vein, multiple attendees thought about how there was a lack of accessible information to students. Information is rarely centralized and guidance is hard to come by. Without a clear path, many wander. Our students suggested systems such as a more helpful major guidance system or even a peer mentorship system : have upperclassmen interact with underclassmen (instead of just a single grad student attempting to help hundreds of students) and speak about why they chose that major or peer counseling in exchange for grade boosts. Much of the reason why those who can’t decide on a major is due to the structure of majors. If we had a goal-centered education it would help. Aspiring entrepreneurs should embrace failing. Learning from mistakes creates a valuable experience. Student’s shouldn’t fear being wrong or being told no. As I sat in one of my lower division business classes, it became very apparent that the answer was the only thing that matted to the professor. However, there are volumes to be told how a failure became a success by finding an emergent strategy.World’s Largest Education Hackathon | Hackathon: Oct 23-25 | 

By Dexter McMillanAs an Education Assistant (EA) in a Canadian secondary school, I’ve spent the better part of the last year and a half sitting in the back of classrooms observing the learning process. I’ve seen a range of teaching styles that implement a variety of policies mandating how smartphones can be used in class. And for the most part, I’ve witnessed these many varied integration strategies fail, resulting in frustrated teachers and less knowledgeable students.Education is losing the battle to integrate smartphones into the classroom to support and enhance learning, and here’s why.Advertising has long been aware that in a society where information is available whenever and wherever you are, attention is a scarce and highly valuable commodity (a concept known as Advertisers are fighting these battles using everything they can to earn your attention. Some are colourful, some offer to save you money, and some will even trick you with click-baity titles that always fail to deliver on their promises — Education is not unlike advertising in this respect. Teachers are selling a product, knowledge, to their students —much of which has no interest or practical use to the majority of students.Teachers are advertisers selling the most undesirable product on Earth: History. Math. Grammar.I’ve seen teachers who understand this, and teachers who don’t. The ones who don’t understand simply spend classroom time lecturing, unaware that students are not absorbing anything they’re saying. The ones who do might dress up in outlandish costumes to role play historical figures — the equivalent of wrapping your dog’s heart medication in bologna in an attempt to make it more appealing.For the past 100 years, teachers But education is changing. No longer inspired by the assembly lines of the industrial revolution, technology has moved us to a more globally-focused, collaborative style of education, and teachers understand the importance of fostering a sense of achievement in students with different strengths and the dangers that come with placing value solely on grades.On top of the softer and (understandably) more lenient classroom atmosphere, smartphones are now with virtually every student, giving them the option to turn a blank screen into anything and everything they could possibly want to see.If used appropriately, smartphones can provide an experience that syncs perfectly with this new style of education. But when used improperly, smartphones are the ultimate distraction, and introduce competition into what was once, essentially, a monopoly on student attention. Smartphone use comes with the best intentions, but in practice, these devices are creating a sea of disengaged faces.It’s true that these devices have potential to create engagement that will take education to new heights. So what are we doing wrong?I’ve seen teachers embrace technologies in a myriad of ways. Some teachers have gone so far as to ban cell phones from their classroom entirely, collecting them all at the start of class in a big box to be retrieved once class has ended. Others have a The only consistency across these technological policies is that teachers all across BC — and surely across the continent — are pulling their hair out trying to wrestle attention away from these devices.Smartphones are, without question, a valuable tool. Adults use them on a regular basis to communicate, share, inform, and learn. It follows logically, then, that they could be harnessed in the classroom to promote learning.But what many educators fail to realize is that smartphones and tablets are not alike to textbooks and handouts. While teachers can control the content that textbooks present, it’s not possible (whether technologically or legally) for educators to control the content presented on smartphones. So we’re left competing with the entire world wide web for the attention of our students.Our current strategy, much like the dominant strategy employed by advertisers, is to change content. At the policy level, that means developing interesting courses and curriculums. At the ground level, it means having teachers make lessons flashy and trying to engage students beyond just listening.Neither of these avenues really seem to provide a solution. The material that’s important for students to learn is not, by nature, enjoyable to most, and there’s only so much bologna with which you can wrap the pill. We need to shift from this competitive attitude.Unlike advertisers, educators There is demand in education for tools that give teachers content control. With the right software, smartphones can provide future students with a wide range of options available to expand their capacity for learning. Possibilities include being able to check-in to class when they arrive, opening up a pre-loaded presentation and annotating as the teacher lectures, and even contributing to a classroom- or school-wide collaboration project, all on their own distraction-free device.But without control of these devices, technology will not be able to move the classroom experience forward in a significant or profound way — Grumpy cat, sports highlights, and pictures from the party on the weekend will continue to dominate classroom attention.We’re simply not ready for smartphone integration in classrooms.Special Education Assistant, Writer, Hobbyist Programmer. (Twitter: Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

a guy who does stuff 

The original American higher education institutions agreed on an approach that aimed to develop nothing more than mental grit in students through tedious tasks of translating ancient languages and completing sets of mathematical problems. As the socioeconomic conditions changed, American higher education went through the first of many periods of reform and fragmentation that have reshaped the curriculum in many different ways.While the curriculum of the original approach was heavily scripted, the liberal approach that soon followed was an overcompensation that allowed students total freedom to define their own path.The current state of education has landed somewhere in the middle of these two approaches. Students have the freedom to select their course of study, but there is limited flexibility to explore within their selected major.Declaring a major in college is one of the most pivotal decisions that we face in our lives. It is a four-year commitment to study a discipline that sets one’s professional trajectory.I believe that much of what makes this decision so difficult is that a student’s choice of major is an extrapolation from their passion.We never say “I am passionate about the human anatomy,” or “I want to spend my life designing mechanisms.” We don’t define our passion by the daily tasks that might make up our profession; we define passion through a macro perspective of the impact we want to have in the world. We want to help relieve poverty overseas or redefine the future of transportation.Selecting a major forces students to boil their vision down to developing a skill set that may later be applied to their passion. Unfortunately, it is difficult to seek out employment that directly matches a student’s passion with the skill set they have developed. Graduates often find themselves in a position that only allows them to pursue their passion through a heavily-diluted or tangentially-related opportunity.If higher education is to be viewed as an investment in one’s professional future, then it is worth considering the period over which that investment pays out. In my parent’s generation, higher education was a gateway to a lifelong career; their education paid dividends throughout their entire professional life. The current generation of college graduates are changing careers more frequently than any generation in the past, which yet again places higher education in position ready for reform.The internet has brought about so many new tools and opportunities that are making it easier and easier to explore other interests, pick up a new skill, and make a career change. As young professionals develop new skills and move on to new positions in other industries, their formal education becomes less and less relevant.Learning in the workplace is different. Employees seek out knowledge that is directly relevant to the challenge they are tackling. Workplace learning has purpose, rather than an abstract extrapolation of purpose. It is a true form of experiential learning — one that allows students to research, apply, and create in rapid iteration.Students could express the purpose of their education in terms of the impact they want to make in the world. They would attend university to explore solutions to water pollution, imagine the future of virtual reality, or develop more intelligent ways to use energy. Instead of defining a major, students would investigate the current state of the world, driven by their own curiosity, and collaborate with other students under the mentorship of a diverse set of professors and industry leaders.In this model, students would have the freedom to dive deep in particular skill or develop a broad set of skills, based on the needs of the area they choose to explore. They would take classes not to complete a pre-determined curriculum, but rather to fill gaps in their knowledge as they are uncovered. Students would still develop skills that are relevant to their future employment, but they would be able to discuss their skills not in terms of accreditation, but instead in terms of the work they’ve done, the things they have created, and the impact they have had on the world.Purpose-driven education would be flexible, but focused. Students would only stay at their university for as long as they found it valuable. Some may leave after a year to go explore a new opportunity elsewhere, while others may to stick around for years to pursue a research opportunity with a mentor on campus. Each new semester would create a point for students to re-evaluate the value delivered by their education before deciding whether or not to continue. If the duration of a student’s education is determined by its ability to continue to deliver value to that student, then universities are framed as a resource, rather than a gateway. Employers would no longer look for that resume line item that verifies a student has spent a set number of years at a university. Instead, they would see how and when a student made use of a university to strategically advance their professional abilities.One of the problems that I have with the concept of declaring a major is that it can go stale. The world is a rapidly changing place, especially given the speed at which we are currently advancing technology. The demand for various occupations is constantly rising and falling, so focusing one’s education on developing a skill set that in the future may no longer be needed brings about inherent risk.The beauty of purpose-driven learning is that it will always be relevant. If universities were structured as a flexible bank of resources that included workshops, online classes, mentors, and more, they would always be able to provide meaningful value to students when they return to campus to prepare for their first or fifth career.Product 

How well-designed nudges can help students and families make active and informed decisions about the educational pathways they pursue.Behavioral economics, in the form of nudges to help students and families make more active and informed decisions, has entered the mainstream of American education, guiding practice and policy from when children are barely old enough to toddle all the way through college and beyond. As a result of nudge work over the last decade, The infusion of behavioral insights into education holds considerable potential for leveling the decision-making playing field for economically-disadvantaged students and their families throughout all stages of schooling. Targeted implementation of behavioral solutions can help compensate for low-income families’ lack of access to quality information or advising about their educational options. Well-designed nudges can help students and families make active and informed decisions about the educational pathways they pursue.Like any innovation in education, however, behavioral nudges do not offer a panacea. One question we have to wrestle with is: When should the nudging stop? Much of my research focuses on using text messaging to provide students with simplified information and access to assistance with college and financial aid decisions. When I present about this work, I often hear concerns that we are creating dependencies among the students we’re serving. “You’re texting them reminders about renewing their financial aid,” someone will say. “Are you going to nudge them to hand in their homework in college? To wake up in the morning? Where do you draw the line?” The flip side of this question is whether students will quickly learn to tune out educational nudges. Maybe putting fruit in front of the cafeteria register instead of candy leads kids to make healthier choices the first few times, but after a while do they just start seeking out the candy? And to paraphrase Richard Thaler, one of the pioneers of behavioral economics, how do we ensure educators nudge for good, using behavioral strategies to help students and families make active and informed decisions about what’s best for their personal circumstances, rather than use nudges to Applied behavioral research in education is nascent enough that we lack empirical evidence to answer many of these questions. What we can rely on in the interim is a series of guiding principles that I believe should steer nudge work in education:With these nudge principles in mind, we have a tremendous opportunity in the coming years to help students and families make more informed decisions and to pursue educational opportunities that allow them to realize their full potential. Over the long term, we should continue to invest in the systemic changes necessary to ensure that every student in America has a high quality education. But for the students who need our help Bringing you smart, independent research for over 90 years.

And you’re probably thinking And the numbers are scary: in Brazil every year universities lose close to Now that’s aThough we were not the first company addressing the issue, we tried a different approach. We choose to create a Our first MVP was called Students would buy vouchers. With those they would be able to send us questions and we would answer them all via e-mail.After a few months of trying different solutions, we arrived at one important finding about how young people study in Brazil:That time experimenting helped us to better understand our users. As much as we knew from being students ourselves not long ago, things change real After Borderline genius, he just He’s in it for the fun. Classes and grades don’t matter much, he studies sporadically, usually in the last possible minute and he’s definitely not above cheating. He does only the minimum necessary to continue the party.There’s never enough time to study. The lack of a good base education makes her study twice as much as everybody else, learning doesn’t come easy. She’s tense, and a bit stressed. There’s only enough nails to bite.She’s the perfect student, dedicated, smart, organised. She has a complex schedule that is almost religious. Skipping a class or homework is simply unthinkable.Much like the Our most successful experiment, and future product, was a direct reflection of this realisation. Everybody wants to The internet is so full of resources that you need an extra effort just to filter between the To that goal, we — alongside students recruited by us — developed a series of study guides based on what people All that delivered through a Besides providing a smooth study experience, we also have a set of tools and features that help them organize and plan their study, or, if the time is short, to have a direct and smart way to learn exactly what they need.In march of 2014 we launched our We started with a freemium version, where the unsubscribed student would only have access to a few chapters.In the first month we had 70 paying subscribers and 1000 students using the free stuff.Since then we produced material for We now have more than Product Designer, Bookworm, Awesome Photographer(not), Brazilian and a great dude!What is your design idea? UI Design, Graphic Design, Web Design etc are all welcome. This collection is managed by 

This comic is wonderful, but I’m troubled by its conclusion. I was following this until what began as a cogent criticism of schooling as a method of learning turned into a call for If it really is unproductive to cram for tests on information which will soon be forgotten, sit under the instruction of bureaucrats, and work for four years (often more) for a fancy piece of paper, subsidizing college is no solution. We could take another lesson from this comic: we need alternatives. College serves a purpose, to be sure. It Fortunately, there are plenty of better ways to signal value (like actually creating it), and an infinite number of ways to My point with all of this? We don’t have to keep doing the same things in education in the hope that the results will be different “next time.” We don’t have to accept the pittance of a degree in exchange for our ability to direct our own learning. We’re in a world where just about any information or experience is within reach of any of us with an internet connection, work ethic, curiosity, and some courage — can’t we act like it?Let’s focus on making education free (as in “libre,” or freedom) before we start tackling how to make it “free” (as in gratis).I enjoy philosophy, music, tech, living freely, and discovering frontiers. Alternative education with Where unconventional paths in entrepreneurship, personal development, and education meet.

Cultural competency efforts that have been in effect in health care and K-12 for nearly 20 years are just getting started at many colleges. The cultural competence To help accelerate equity and opportunity, the Institute for Evidence-Based Change, in collaboration with Educational Testing Service (ETS) will host a The exceptionally high registrations show college campuses know this work is important. They know this work requires bias checking, reflection and rethinking to deliver culturally relevant education to every student regardless of race, ethnicity, culture, language proficiency and a host of other identities. Here are four ways higher education can move from mere compliance to maximizing student potential:1. 2. 3. Instead of checking seven boxes, higher education will accomplish more by intentionally reaching students where they are, not where colleges would like students to be.4. When Latinos became the largest ethnic group in California, it With fewer than half of students earning a degree in less than six years, there is a growing sense of impatience to achieve cultural proficiency in higher education. California’s community college system is struggling to support students’ needs and squandering precious time, money and talent. It is increasingly understood that disparate education quality hurts students’ chances to succeed in life and persist at our nation’s economic and moral peril.As the most diverse state in the nation, California has a competitive edge over other states and countries with aging homogenous populations. But it’s an edge that depends on higher education to extend degrees with value to more students. Becoming culturally proficient is really just good teaching for any student type, because it aims to maximize human potential and minimize barriers. This is higher education’s purpose. Let’s stick to it.President/CEO, IEBC - We help education stakeholders use data to make informed decisions, improve practice, and increase student success. 

As a self-proclaimed education nerd (personally, professionally, and academically), I’m very excited to be a “guest DJ” for the Here are my picks for this week’s best education links!My mom’s favorite piece of advice as of late has been, “Smoking is the new standing.” And while that is clearly hyperbolic (but so mom-esque), research shows she’s not wrong. Crossfit is everywhere, and it’s now in our classrooms. It’s gotten to the point where educators can’t go anywhere — on the internet or IRL — without hearing the phrase “teacher effectiveness.” Especially with the news of Cuomo’s proposed model (50% of teacher evaluations to be based on student test scores), teachers are up in arms fighting for a more holistic measure of success.Given the fiery climate surrounding teacher evaluation, I loved Liz Riggs’ piece in This gave me goosebumps:Blogging is for more than the See you later, peer-reviewed journals! (Not really…)An argument — and fundamental issue — with education reform is conversations surrounding the questionDebbie Morrison, an instructional designer and online educator, does an excellent job of connecting the dots between user experience (UX), web design, and student learning. At the most basic level, UX is defined as “how a person feelings about using a system.”UX is an important part of any internet conversation, so why not bring it into student learning? With so many studies about how classroom design impacts student learning, thinking about the online learning space should be no different.Brightteacher → storyteller. #edresearch nerd. using digital media + community building to change how we talk about K-12 pedagogy/practice.Innovation in Education

Last night and this morning, as I was watching videos by During his lecture for the Dalai Lama Center’s Educating the Heart Series Sir Ken makes reference to Robert W. Witkin’s 1970′s book ‘The Intelligence of Feeling’. In the book Witkin remixes Descarte’s famous saying ‘I think, therefore I am’ into ‘I feel, therefore I am’. He posits, quite rightly, the idea that each of us live in two worlds. One is the world that existed before we appeared and that will exist after we are gone. The other is the world that we experience individually through our sensory and emotional interaction with the first. In essence, the world without and the world within. Witkin goes on to say that the world within comes into existence when the individual does and it ceases to exist when they die. It is the world of our own private consciousness. This is not a new idea but Sir Ken’s use of it in describing what has gone wrong with education got me to thinking.Prior to beginning yesterday’s educational video trawl, I had watched How we approach the existence and interrelationship of these two worlds, I believe, lies at the very heart of our current problem in education and by extension, modern life. The outer world should not dictate the life of the inner world because if it does, it means that the self can become stuck, unable to develop and consequently, unable to develop original thought. Original thought gives birth to real, authentic action. Without it, life becomes a blur of experiencing and reacting.Hence, I would like to mash-up Descarte’s and Witkin’s contentions and make my own, that ‘I feel, therefore I am able to think.’ I believe that our senses are the way we bridge the outer and inner world and that the feelings that this interaction generates give birth to our thoughts. Through the medium of the senses, in response to the physical and spiritual world, our brain creates awareness. Awareness of how to do again. I think the brain is, in essence, a reaction/action machine. Its reaction to any particular experience is to create an awareness of what to do if it should happen again.I also believe this process is emotional. If an experience is pleasurable the brain will seek to repeat it, scaffolding its own growing awareness seamlessly as it works its way towards a fuller understanding of the thing that has pleased it and by extension, the body it controls. The end result of this would be what we call ‘mastery’. However, because the brain is hardwired to learn, I think that no matter the experience that has caused it to react/act, it is actually the process of learning itself that the brain is finding pleasurable. Therefore, I contend that our most primal action is this process of learning and that it is the basis of all meaning in our lives. It is the driving and defining force that shapes our inner world. Because of this, I think that what is of primary importance in our lives is that we are learning. Not that we have learnt, or that we will but that we are, in the moment, experiencing the process of learning. This is, in effect, creativity itself.If this is true, it means that an individual’s education is a self-driven process, guided by interest and passion, that is entirely natural and the best possible way for them to ‘succeed’ is to better understand themselves. By understanding the dynamics of their inner world and its interrelationship with the outer world, they will become able to play with both, creating meaning where before, none existed. A meaning of their own.This is not at all a revolutionary thought but it seems to have eluded the majority of educational systems.I am not going to attempt to theorise here about what is the best way to fix all the problems this dangerous lack of awareness of the importance of self-awareness has caused our societies. All I am going to do is ask that we, as educators, embrace the messy nature of our own emotions and understand that because we are mostly products of these same numbing education systems, we are not so far ahead of the children we are teaching in understanding our inner worlds. That the struggle to find meaning in our own lives must be made visible and now. That we start a journey together with our students into the great unknown by acknowledging that we all have emotional lives. That these emotional lives are the basis of everything we do and that by referencing them and drawing upon them for inspiration we can all be truly creative. That our creative lives should exist also within the sphere of ‘formal’ education and not just as a reaction to it.We need to inspire conversations about the existence of these inner worlds, to A Journey In LearningAuthentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

By Across the country, universities are feeling a pinch. The cost of operating a university is rising, and increases in tuition can’t keep up. Across the country, students are also feeling a pinch. Tuition is rising, and the long-promised value of a higher degree is becoming more dubious for some as student debt, unemployment and under-employment rates soar.To combat these issues, universities and third party companies have placed higher education under the microscope — questioning, analyzing, and experimenting with new models.Source: Advances in online education and their pairing with credentialed degrees, such as the ASU and edX One common theme that all of these innovations share is that they dare to reimagine the fundamental So what are these trends all about? Here’s a quick introductory overview to some of the trends taking place in higher education at the moment:Competency-Based Education (v. credit hour measures)Currently, most higher education learning in the U.S. is measured via a Carnegie “credit hour.” Many educators and the DOE have called for a change to this standard noting that measuring learning by seat hours is not a proper reflection of knowledge or skills gained. The Globalized Learning + Work Experiences (v. college town life)Globalized learning has been a trend for centuries. The advent of “study abroad” as a key division in many U.S. based universities began in the mid-1900s. While nearly 50% of incoming college students say they want to study abroad, only ~5% end up doing so according to These recent trends in globalized learning with an emphasis on work experiences is a huge motivation behind GA’s newly launched, Lifelong Learning (v. 4-year degrees)Who says learning has to happen in short chunks of time of 2–4 years? Recently popularized by Stanford as “The Loop,” and by Georgetown’s Future of the University initiative, lifelong learning advocates for a world where education is taught “just-in-time” — right when you need to apply it — rather than gathered and stored in advance for unknown uses. As the name suggests, lifelong learning rejects the notion that studying for several years at the beginning of your career will set you up for success for the rest of your working life. This trend reflects generational shifts in today’s employment outlook where a career is no longer spent with one employer over 30 years, but rather in 5 to 6 careers with dozens of employers. Adults will constantly need to retrain as the speed of innovation quickens in all fields.At Purpose-Driven Learning (v. Occupational-driven learning)Purpose-driven learning is another trend popularized by Stanford as “Mission Driven Learning” in which students declare “missions” instead of degrees and strive to pursue a path of learning where they combine a specific passion with skills and theory needed to achieve that mission. While I’m not aware of any colleges implementing Stanford’s idea as it is described above, many universities have reported that interdisciplinary majors are on the rise as students look to combine interests to form their own academic pursuits.Advances in online education will continue to play a fundamental role in the innovation in higher education. While we continue to experiment with the efficacy of online learning, we cannot ignore other important advances in education, even if they are offline. In the next 3–5 years, changes to funding and credentialing regulations, differentiated consumption of length and geography, and a reimagined purpose in higher education will lead innovation.GA transforms thinkers into creators through education and opportunities in tech, business, and design.There’s an undeniable momentum building around new models for education. At General Assembly we focus on accelerated, just-in-time tech, business and design education that’s built on community, innovation and hands-on approaches. Share your EdTech stories here.

I wish we had elements of a maker education when we were growing up. Sounds like resilience is one of the most important things these kids learn. Reminds me of this book. 

I had a fascinating meeting today with the immediate past-president of the University of Basel in Switzerland, Antonio Loprieno. We were talking about why the US has such a hard time wrapping its head around any other possibilities aside from university education.He said, “Look around our campus. It hardly looks like a campus. There are very few students here. We never have a problem with overcrowding.” I realize, now that I’m writing this, that this sounds like a negative, but in fact, I see it as a positive.It’s true, only about a third of the population here chooses higher education.I’ve always worried about higher education being seen as the golden ticket to the upper class or to freedom. We see many schools marketing themselves this way, and unfortunately, low-income, minority and first-generation students often fall prey. So when I heard the word “emancipation” used to describe higher education, it struck a chord.Take a minute and think about the bedrock of American culture. Anything is possible. Anyone can make it big. I can climb the ladder…The US has painted a rosy picture of higher education, making it the symbol of an elite lifestyle-a launching pad to the upper class, yet, supply is abundant (too abundant, I would say), so we know that any student, regardless of ability, can pretty much find some college or university willing to take him (at a price, of course). So we have an elite picture with no real elitism at all.So, what’s the problem in all of this?American students expect far too much from their university educations and are greatly disappointed when the light at the end of the tunnel is not as bright as they initially thought. They don’t understand why they don’t have the job, the car, the house, the accolades…Some say this is why there are different levels of colleges and universities. This is why we rank our schools, so that students know which among them is the Imagine for a moment that there were only 500 colleges and universities in the US (there are nearly 4,000 now) and that there was no real qualitative difference among them. Imagine they all cost approximately the same amount and students chose primarily based on which school offered the programs they were interested in and which city it was located in. This is what we see in Switzerland and other western European countries as well. Indeed, the rankings are emerging here, but still, they are not as quite the religious documents they are in the US. When I talk with Swiss students about why they chose their particular institution, they give me this look that says, “Well, why not?”. It’s as though the university chooses them based on common goals and interests.At the end of my meeting today, I really had an epiphany about my own country. It became very clear to me why I see the hysteria I sometimes do in my counseling practice. It is as though we are in a state of slavery and we think the only exit is a university education. We think we need to be emancipated.Founder, Dunce Labs | Helping teens launch their futures — to college and beyond Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Imagine, just for a minute, that you are an explorer. The kind who is fascinated, curious and excited about the world around them. The kind who is endlessly pursuing new adventures, in new places with new people; who is inspired and inspiring; adaptable and resilient; who is passionate and empathetic, with an appreciation for all forms of life on our planet and beyond…Sounds just like the explorer I would like to go on an adventure with. Just like the kind of person I would like to work with. And possibly the kind of soul I could, change the world with.I recently attended a Virgin Disruptors event in London where some amazing people gathered together to discuss the future of education, and whether it is keeping up with the 21st century. It got me thinking about a few things that I’d like to share with you.Before we start, let’s get one thing clear. None of us know what type of world we will inhabit in 2 or 5 years, let alone 20 -30 years time. For this reason alone, we cannot hope to prepare the next generation for their lives by teaching and testing methods as they stand today.We must be more clever and creative than that. We must design an education system that equips the next generation with skills, values and techniques, not only for self-understanding, but to thrive in the unknown future of the years ahead. It’s time that we designed education that empowers knowledge seeking explorers.No one said this would be easy.For starters there are many different stakeholders, all with slightly different hopes for education. Below are just some that cropped up on the day:Parents want to know:“Will my child’s education help my child to succeed in life?”Educators want to know:“How do we measure “success in life”?Companies want to know:‘Is education providing students with the skills we need for the success of our businesses of the future?’And for those being educated …“Am I being encouraged to be true to myself, discover my passions and dreams so I can thrive in life and live my own definition of success?’(Thank you children of school 21 in London for that, I think it’s a great place to begin.)There is a paradigm shift required. We need to be the change we want. We will need to role model the behaviours we want to see valued in our future education system; co operation, creativity and communication. We will need to start before we are ready, and learn as we go along. We need to move away from measuring how intelligent students are, and move to teaching and valuing ‘how’ they are intelligent.Dreaming is the first stage to becoming. We do it naturally as children. As Buddha said, We heard Iain McGilchrist We have two types of attention available to us. The first is linked to the left hemisphere and acts as a filter for us to laser focus. It is concerned with discrete, unconnected information that allows us to make rapid decisions. The right hemisphere has a broader, connected view and helps us to relate to the contextual nature of our world. It is the seat of the “aha’ or ‘Eureka’ moment and is highly active during creative thinking.Typically our education system has favoured the left hemisphere view of the world — right, wrong, input, output and standardization. Great for some fields, (e.g. medicine) and historically helpful for preparing 19th century factory workers. However it is less helpful for the interconnected, co-operative and unpredictable world that most of our young people will grow up in. So how do we grab our right brains attention in education and start strengthening that mental muscle?Creativity is a big topic. Much like education, everyone has a view on what it is, and also what it is not. For me, it is the ability to make something meaningful from nothing, to connect the seemingly unrelated in a way that creates value.Albert Einstein said, The team at Aldebaran Robotics Yes. I know.If ever you needed any convincing that STEM careers (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths) could be creative, half an hour with the Virgin Galactic team should do it. After all, they are turning generations of space obsessed artistic visions into reality, through science.They also made some interesting observations about the effect that space travel has for right brain attentional engagement. Seen from miles above, astronauts report losing the sense of boundaries, distinctions and separateness typified by our traditional left hemisphere education. Instead they convey appreciation for the fragility of this planet, connected by all life — a little blue dot orbiting in space. It is in this compassionate, connected and co-operative mental space that creativity and passion can solve the planets biggest challenges.Mary Angelou said, So how do we create space for creativity in education?The good news is we have lots of options available to us, each worthy of further discussion than I can here. ‘Blended learning’ was a buzzword for the day. Using technology as a learning medium and for providing real time feedback allows students to take control of their own learning outcomes. Project based activities aligned to real life context means learning can move out of the classrooms and connect students to projects all over the world. Investing and up skilling teachers so they can act as mentors/coaches teaching values, not just facts from a textbook, would return many to their own love of learning. Raising the profile of well being/meditation, communication skills, compassion and the arts, whilst reducing the numbers of formal exams, all provide an opportunity in the timetables to allow students to flourish at their own pace, in their own way.Of course, how you teach creativity is only half the battle — how you measure it is the other half.Promoting the place of creativity in education should not however, be limited to the innovation and investment of the developed nations. Re thinking what we want out of our education system provides us an opportunity to advance the creative literacy of the next generation globally — not to further divide it. Besides, there are many lessons the developed nations can learn from developing nations when it comes to getting access to education — especially the importance of community, resilience and self-belief.Having been a volunteer teacher in Laos, I know first hand the challenges the education system faces to get a basic level of skills into the population. One of our most urgent questions needs to be how we ensure the educational reform and skills refocus of the developed nations is replicated in low cost and effective ways in developing countries.Pearson social learning fund and SPARK in South Africa provided examples of the great opportunity that blended learning offers developing nations. SPARK demonstrated a scalable cost effective and successful model using technology to deliver real time student feedback, reduced overheads and reduced staffing costs with high quality results. Google Experiences, the portable virtual reality glasses that take Whilst we can always do more, testing these ideas in the developed nations provides a short cut for raising the educational standards in many developing nations.And so it is that we return to our explorer.Educated in values and context. Creative and empathetic, these students have discovered their passions and are driven to succeed in an unknown and ever changing world. They are our future, the dreamers, and the explorers.

Take your #FirstLeap into 3D motion control for VR/AR, Mac and PC. 

Why is the Department of Education so determined the POD, its new At first, I’d have said it was just the usual blind institutional inertia. But then I read the papers on Though it is always impossible to know the motivation of a Government Department, this explanation fits all the available facts and explains some POD mysteries. It is also consistent with how institutions behave and think.I think the POD database project was, in whole or in part, designed to provide the Department of Education with individual files on pupils to use against them as evidence in the Department’s defence in any future child abuse claims that the children might bring.It only became possible to hold the Department for Education responsible for abuse in schools in Jan 2014 after the European Court of Human Rights overturned the judgements of the Irish High and Supreme Courts in a The first surprise I had was discovering that the Dept of Education’s plans to build and retain a database of sensitive personal data on school children go back to at least 2008, as revealed publicly by the Data Protection Commissioner in 2010.2008 was the year Louise O’Keeffe lost her Supreme Court case to find the Department of Education liable for child abuse in school, prompting the appeal to the ECHR in Strasbourg.After the Data Protection Commissioner intervened in 2010, the Department pledged to stop trying to illegally collect sensitive personal information about schoolchildren.But they really wanted that data on kids’ special needs and psychological assessments. So when they issued the POD Circular they simply decreed those records weren’t sensitive personal data.This is an astonishing assertion. as, literally, My first clue that there might be something beyond just unthinking institutional overreach about the Department of Education’s policy came when I followed the link from the bottom of the Government POD webpage. It leads to the That site advocates grossly excessive “indefinite” retention periods for multiple categories of sensitive data, just as the department did.The difference is that the schools’ guidence site is explicit about why they want to hold kids’ records indefinitely. It is to use against the children to defend any abuse claims in the future.…Anticipating resistance, the Department’s FAQ for schools said that, other than race and religion, whether parents consented to the transfer was irrelevant. Schools were As soon as it became liable for child abuse claims the Department of Education suddenly started trying to build its own stash of children’s data and hold it indefinitely, per It’s also worth noting the congruence between the data the schools wanted and those the Department sought via POD.Schools wanted a permanent database of files on children-psychological reports, special needs etc to use against kids in future abuse claims.And the same month-January 2014- the Department of Education became liable for claims, they also demanded kids personal sensitive data re psychological assessments etc. Crucially, they insisted that they were non-sensitive data so that they could avoid the requirement for parent’s consent.The POD database even has a field to store Notes on children, written by school staff, to be kept indefinitely. What would Louise O’Keeffe’s Notes, made by the teacher who abused her, have looked like, I wonder?And other than using those notes in evidence against the children in the future, what possible purpose could the Department have in storing them indefinitely?In 2010 the DPC spoke out about the Department’s illegal demands and the Dept promised not to illegally take sensitive personal data without parentalThe Dept really want that data. Even after more that a quarter of all schools reached the deadline and hadn’t transferred data, risking the complete defunding of all their pupils’ education, the Dept were only willing to say that- just this one year- they It’s this combination of tunnel vision and clear focus on the material most valuable to a defendant facing victims of child abuse that goes some way to explain why the Department of Education wants this database so badly the Minister is willing to publicly defend defunding the Education of a quarter of the nation’s children in the run up to an election.Not for the first time in Ireland’s sorry history of child abuse, protecting an institution has been put ahead of individual children’s rights.You can read more about how the POD project has been going for the Minister and her Department Solicitor at 

You can almost hear the buzz- even above the normal tech chatter about the newest smartphones, tablets, watches, and other wearable devices: virtual reality (along with That virtual reality is going to be a game-changing technology in the years ahead seems to be almost a foregone conclusion, but can it get beyond the gamer led consumer world, and make an impact on education? One one hand, virtual reality is already being tested and discussed all over the world through applications as diverse as training advanced medical students, in K-12 classrooms, and exhibits in cultural institutions and museums– virtual reality’s attraction is the immersive environment that it creates, and it seems intuitive that students are a perfect test case. But ultimately, will VR become a proven medium to help students learn faster, be more motivated, and expand the boundaries of what is possible? Let’s take a moment to survey the state of the field right now and see what the future of virtual reality in education could look like.Today’s interest in virtual reality stems from rapid technological advances in the headsets that make an immersive experience possible. While a number of headsets were developed in the 1990s by Sega (Oculus was the initial driver in this phase of VR development, using a kickstarter campaign in 2012 to fund their first model. In 2014 Facebook acquired the startup, touting it as Touted as the first “eye tracking virtual reality headset,” this headset promises to take VR to the next level by following the user’s eye movements instead of relying on handheld controls to move the screen. Thus, it is promising an even more realistic virtual reality experience. According to their With an announced consumer release in fall 2015, this may be the first headset on the open market (A low cost headset (made out of cardboard!) that, like the Samsung VR, uses a smartphone as the screen. This cheap VR alternative is Geared for gaming and built exclusively for Sony’s Playstation 4 system, this headset has received spectacular early The most obvious immediate applications for virtual reality are found in the gaming community. Millions of people already spend countless hours immersed in virtual worlds, and making these virtual worlds more “real” or “realistic” will only be that much more attractive. Despite the complaints that games are huge distractions for youth (an argument for another day), there is tremendous educational potential in games, as argued by VR training has already been significantly adopted in high risk/high cost fields, especially in the military (see this Learning is about to become more interactive, more fun, and more social, according to many observers. Specifically, this After all, it only makes sense that the systems that have been used to simulate very high-risk, high-pressure situations and exercises for training will become effective in educating students. At a recent Despite endorsements such as the one above, challenges will remain. This Perhaps most important is investment in games and experiences with educational value. Games must be well designed and ideally, include collaborative or social components. Here, there is much to learn from In conclusion, let’s take a look at a few examples of games specifically designed for VR that are currently under development:Undoubtedly, there are many more games and experiences being developed, but this list just provides a small taste. Technology is changing, and education will have to adapt to maintain student interest and prepare students for the digital world. Part of the process will be addressing serious challenges that have continued to plague the adoption of technology in education. First, while commercial games promise to become such a huge part of the VR market, how can large and consistent funding streams dedicated to developing quality educational games be maintained? Second, creating universal access to the headsets, computers, and more importantly, training teachers needed to facilitate educational integration of virtual reality will be highly difficult for early corporate and foundational players in the space. Just as schools today vary widely in the extent they make devices available to their students, similar, if not broader, stratification is likely to be seen with VR, at least in the short term.However, if the minds at Google, Microsoft, Facebook, and Samsung are to be believed (not to mention many others working in the tech industry), virtual reality will come to us quickly and expansively, impacting nearly every area of our lives. If VR changes the ways in which we socialize and entertain ourselves, it will surely impact the ways we educate ourselves and the next generation of learners._______Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

I love learning new things. Now that I’m out of college, I can decide for myself what to learn and when. I’ve taught myself how to use the internet for learning, and have gotten a pretty good grasp on I think that the best lessons are those that not only give you new knowledge or skills, but give you an entirely new way of looking at the world. I’ve learned a lot online, but there’s only a handful of lessons that have entirely changed my way of thinking. Perhaps they can do the same for you. So I will share them with you, in the hope that perhaps you in turn will share them with others. And maybe you will share in the comments some of the things that have changed the way you think. I look forward to reading your suggestions. Now let’s get started!Even more amazing is that a story that enormous has an overarching theme: increasing complexity. From an expanding universe of homogeneous matter, to stars and supernova’s, new chemical elements, to the formation of the solar system, earth, life itself, human beings, writing and culture and now technology and science. At an ever increasing pace, new orders of complexity are unlocked in a universe that ought by its nature to tend to entropy, chaos.Big History will tell you where you stand in the vast world around you and in the great span of time. It gives you context, a context in which to position everything else you have ever learned or will ever learn. So if your goal is to gather new knowledge and understanding, perhaps this is the best place to start.I know that Joining Tumblr has taught me that people in our society are far more diverse than we are often told, and that what we consider “normal” is in fact rather arbitrary. I wasn’t completely unaware of this before I joined Tumblr. Growing up in the Netherlands, I’ve witnessed homosexuality become widely accepted. But reading some of the posts on Tumblr has opened up an even wider and more diverse world for me. A world where your biological sex need not determine what gender you identify as, nor what gender you find yourself attracted to, nor how you choose to behave or present yourself. Even more, some people are fluid in their gender or sexuality, or want to have nothing do with genders or sex at all. Only after seeing numerous permutations of birth sex, gender and sexuality have I come to realize that they are three distinct matters and none of them determines any of the others. And needless to say, people must be treated as equals no matter their gender or sexuality: a dream we are still far from realizing.Tumblr isn’t an educational resource: it’s a community of like-minded people. The advantage of this is that you can learn about things you didn’t even know existed, and would never have found by yourself. So I suggest you create an account there and start connecting and exploring.There are many educational channels on Youtube, and more appear all the time. My heartfelt thanks and respect go out to all those who dedicate their time to enlighten the world. There are many channels and video’s I could mention, but I will limit myself to those who have most changed the way I see the world.Watching But towering above them all are the many videos of Last but certainly not least, nothing is as apt to change your perspective than the talks uploaded daily to TED has an archive of hundreds of talks, so let me present you with a personal selection of videos that most changed my way of thinking about the world.I’ve always tended to think of environmental organizations in the terms in which they present themselves: lone warriors against an uncaring corporate world and the only ones to care for our beautiful mother earth. Therefore, the only solutions that will save us all are the ones they sanction. Stewart Brand doesn’t think in such romantic terms. He sees a problem and finds the best solution, even if this goes against all green doctrine.We’re often told about the power of the internet to unite people and affect change, but watching this talk was the first time I considered concrete ways in which the internet can connect citizens with their governments. I fully agree with Shirky that this is a thing that needs to happen.We grew up hearing about ‘The Third World’ and people starving in Africa. It wasn’t until I heard Hans Rosling’s statistics that I discovered that reality is far more complicated.When you’re young you don’t question why there is school and why it works the way it does: it is simply a part of your everyday reality. But Sir Robinson does ask these questions, and once you start looking closely at our educational systems, they seem outdated, archaic even.For now. I hope that some of these lessons will be of use to you, and will enrich the way you think about the world around you. Because in my experience, there is nothing more invigorating than looking at the world that seemed so simple yesterday and now turns out to be even more complex and beautiful than you had thought.So now that you’ve heard about the things that have changed my way of thinking about the world, I hope you will share with me some of your own inspirations. Leave a comment, write a reply, send me a message. Whatever works for you. And keep sharing what you learn with others. Until we meet again!A Dutch student of Man and Machine, Science and Faith, Philosophy and Life. Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Merry Hackmas! For the next 12 days we’ll be putting out awesome tips, tricks, and things to do!For the first day of Hackmas we’ve got a list of 12 problems in education created from the Fireside Chat series for There are a number of organizations we’ve partnered with who want to see big changes in education and we want to invite World’s Largest Education Hackathon | Hackathon: Oct 23-25 | 

Education is in disarray. Our governments have endorsed a system whose structure has not evolved with time. Our students’ “lack of effort” is not the predominant issue causing poor performance. Poor performance is a side effect of deeper societal and leadership issues that have not been addressed. ​I have talked with a multitude of students from all age groups. I am going to address four issues we find important.I believe if our leaders made these changes to our education system we would better our society and future generations. If you agree, please recommend this article. ☺I am a developer and designer (and sometimes writer).A collection of awesome stories about education on Medium.com

Mayor Bill De Blasio’s New York City’s tech sector is a wellspring of rising earnings (an average hourly wage of $39.50) and job prospects (291,000). Plus, half of those tech jobs are at non-tech companies and in other industries, like retail and healthcare.. The Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that by 2022, 1.3 million tech jobs will need to be filled.Skills are the primary qualification for many tech jobs, including data entry positions and data technicians. With an average hourly wage of $27.75, tech sector jobs that do not require a college degree pay 45 percent more than non-tech jobs with similar requirements. That makes them particularly attractive options for low-income students, who are less likely to attend and graduate from college.Research shows early exposure to computer science concepts is crucial to learning its relevant skills. Many high school students who come to Robin Hood-backed coding classes lack basic skills, such as how to log on to a desktop or navigate files.Capacity is a major barrier: Of 75,000 New York City teachers, fewer than 100 teach computer science. A major component of the approved initiative will train educators to deliver computer science-related content at each level of the K-12 journey.By establishing standards for computer science knowledge at every age, New York City will create a blueprint for school systems across the country.Robin Hood will lend its expertise to the research component of the initiative to determine if computer science education can transfer to success in critical thinking or other brain functions. Better evidence regarding the impact of this exposure will lead to smarter investments in poverty fighting.FIGHT POVERTY LIKE A NEW YORKER.
Follow #RHFunded to learn more about the 200+ NYC programs that Robin Hood supports.

A little over three months ago, I traveled to Los Angeles to present my very first TEDx Talk. The theme for this particular TEDx series was called “360 Degrees: Learning From Every Angle.” Given my background as a public and charter school teacher, education researcher, edtech founder, and education innovation advisor, I had seen this industry we call “education” from a variety of angles. And at this point, I felt I had an idea worth spreading.The first few minutes of the video were cut out, but as you’ll see below, I’ve inserted the words I shared that day with the audience. I hope you enjoy it…Checkout my new site, Portfolio Services Director at Kapor Capital | Founder of The Startup Couch | Forbes 30 Under 30 | TEDx Presenter | You are welcome to submit your  TEDx experience to this journal. You are able to edit and/or withdraw your article even after your submission is accepted. We do not edit your article without your permission. NOTICE: THIS IS NOT AN OFFICIAL TED PROJECT.

Good to see the maker side of education is making a bit of a comeback after years (decades)of slashing art, music and other maker programs. Would love to see way more public funding going to these types of educational experiences. Can’t replace the valuable lessons these students are learning through hands-on experiences like this.Technology, Golf, Music Making, a Decent Sense of Humor and More.

There’s a huge debate going on about the problems parents face in bringing up children who are unable to put down a device they are under constant pressure to use, and that at the same time, given its versatility, exercises an irresistible fascination over them. Parents and teachers watch in desperation as their children, at certain ages, are absorbed, seemingly abducted, by their smartphones, using them to send messages or play games, in the process, rendering them inert, anti-social, and failing to respond to any other stimulation than that provided by the screen.So when somebody like me says that the best age for children to have access to a smartphone is when they stop putting it in their mouth, a lot of people either assume that I don’t have children, or that quite simply I fail to grasp the true scale of the “problem”. Add to this, in the case of Spain, a former juvenile court judge who can’t resist the temptation of hitting the headlines by saying “if the first thing an adolescent does when he or she wakes up is to grab hold of his or her smartphone, then we’re talking about addiction.”One might have expected a former judge to have a slightly better idea of what is going on around him, instead we get dangerous hyperbole.Quite simply, there is no such thing as technology addiction, and nobody is addicted to their smartphone, in the same way that there were never people addicted to the landline phone. Smartphones are not a drug, and neither is a computer, or the internet. Instead, what we have are badly brought up children, or parents who have failed to meet their responsibilities in doing so. I would agree with the aforementioned judge that there are parents who do not know how to raise their children, or who believe that as their children were born into the digital age, they have nothing to say about how they should use technology.There exists a generation of parents irresponsible enough to believe that attempting to exercise over their children is in someway an assault on the dignity of their offspring or that they will even cause some kind of trauma. We’ve all seen it: “Hey, don’t throw the cutlery at the people on the next table… ha ha, kids, what are they like?” There are parents who use smartphones as a way to keep their children quiet, or who let them use the “computer room” without any supervision, as though a computer were some kind of child-minder. No, the smartphone is not addictive, and what’s more, it’s going to play a growing role in the future of our children, and so it would be a good idea to know how to use one sensibly. The cellphone encourages children to write, and Children should not be isolated from technology, and doing so will only damage their chances for the future. What we need to do is to educate them, in the same way that we always have. Allow them to play games at all hours? No, there is playtime, and there is time for doing other things. So why do we allow our children to play at all times on their phones, even during meals? Manners play the same role that they have always played, and bringing up our children means educating them in the correct use of technology, because technology is not on the margins of education.So no, bringing children up correctly doesn’t mean depriving them of technology or not allowing them to use it until they reach a certain age: if anything, we need to expose them to technology as early as possible. We need to experiment with technology, which means playing with If you don’t know how to bring up your children, then you need to start learning, fast. And you need to understand that technology or smartphones aren’t the problem, it’s you. There are no addicted children, there are simply badly brought up children. It is, quite simply, a question of education.Professor at IE Business School and blogger at enriquedans.comOn the effect of technology on people, companies and the society as a whole. (Writing in Spanish at enriquedans.com since 2003)

Education for most is the delivery of information from institutionalized instruction(s) to their recipients. As a high school student, I cannot possibly emphasize how much schools stress testing. Learning how to take a test well isn’t effective education. Teaching students information that may never serve any tangible use in a student’s life isn’t effective education. Pushing students towards a “stable” career rather than their interests and passions isn’t an effective education. Rather than bombard high school students with testing and overloading them with horrendously tedious busy work, our nation’s high schools should spark interest and spur passion within students. Most students lose interest in core subjects by their sophomore year of high school. But why? Truth is, no one likes being forced to do anything thus, this creates disinterest. Why don’t we discard the idea of testing as a whole and simply focus on what matters? Isn’t that why Finland’s education so grand? Why don’t we focus on the initial purpose of school? Learning. Discarding standardized testing would result in students not being overwhelmed with the politics of education and they wouldn’t be stressed about having to be pitted against everyone else in the the same situation. Less stress is theoretically proven to result in a healthier lifestyle and increased happiness. Moreover, students would be more exposed to learning the provided material for the sake of learning rather than for the sake of passing a test. In addition, why aren’t class personalized? Prospective engineers need more calculus and physics courses than they do history and english, prospective doctors need more courses focusing on biology and chemistry not a random language and social studies, etc. For those who know what they’re interested in or would like to do in the future, this sense of flexibility and personalization is perfect. For those who don’t, personalization is still perfect. Students can then find their interests / disinterests by through their CHOSEN rather than FORCED selection of classes. Skills should be taught as well, job skills, actual skills. Such skills provide each individual to have a certain niche as well as a certain insurance to fall upon if all else comes to worse, ultimately decreasing poverty and unemployment within our nation. Rather than focus on graduation rate, test scores, average GPAs/QPAs, etc., high schools should focus on teaching the students what they’d like to learn and should learn while killing all of the unnecessary technicalities that schools stress over instead of the importance of learning. If our nation’s high schools would do so, high school students will be happier, contribute more towards society and will go into the “adult” world with no issues of complete oblivion (which most of us do).“To engineer a better future for those to come.”Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Although I agree with Senator Schumer that America needs a solution to the crushing debt accumulated in higher education by students, hoping won’t solve the problem. Action needs to be taken immediately, and the problem with student loan debt needs to be handled preemptively.To help crush student debt, there needs to be an understanding of why and how the debt was created. First, there are many colleges that are not only excellent in academics, but in name as well. What I mean is, the reputation of a college is part of what brings students in. Because of that name — and of course academics — the college knows students who get accepted are more than willing to pay the price. For example, Brown University.It is To clarify a little, if a student does not receive any financial aide or scholarships, the total estimated cost of four years at Brown University comes to around $261,520. Imagine walking off the podium after graduating with the weight of that loan, terrifying isn’t it?These colleges are, by definition, in it for the money. Because of this, they are out there promoting their schools in hopes of drawing in more students and thus making higher profits. Of course when students cannot afford the price of admission, they readily offer “financial aid” in the form of student loans. In fact, this has been an issue with some for-profit institutions who mislead students in order to drive higher enrollment. According to findings by the committee:Further, the committee found that although students were accumulating debt at these institutions, a large portion are not earning degrees. According to the report, “for students who enrolled in 2008–09, more than half withdrew by mid-2010.” Shocking still is the fact that in regards to associate degrees, approximately 62 percent of two-year students did not earn a degree.The best way to fight these vicious tactics to to strictly regulate for-profit institutions, or abolish them all together. There is not much to say in that regard because what are the other options? They are private institutions run by corporations that are more concerned with shareholders than the financial wellbeing of the students they lure into debt.One of the few things most people can agree on is that taxes suck. That is unless you fall into the 0.1 percent of the American population that According to Recently, Democratic presidential nominee and independent Senator of Vermont Bernie Sanders, has used a so-called Robin Hood tax as part of his platform. His Isn’t that what we need right now, especially at a time when college graduates are being expected to work for little to nothing to start? At a time where graduates But let’s be real Senator Schumer, even if Sanders is elected, Congress would be hard pressed to pass tax hikes and fees on Wall Street — especially with a GOP dominated House and Senate. And because so many pockets are lined by the revenue generated by for-profit colleges, no one will dare to speak out against them.So what else is there; what are the other options to help students escape universities without drowning in debt? To be honest, I don’t know. I’m just a college student preparing for the inevitable debt that proceeds graduation. I can only hope that you and others elected by my generation — the college generation — take action sooner rather than later.Muckraker, poet, and homo extraordinaire. Director of Branding  Business Development at Substance Magazine. I solemnly swear I am up to no good.Not just another bad habit

I am not the best parent in the world. It’s not a problem, though. Apparently, my wife was engineered from birth to be a mother, so I get to take advantage of drafting behind her in the parenting race.And somehow the boys survive.I am a great playmate. I research and share information about whichever obsession-of-the-week has drilled itself into the boys’ brains. I enjoy Yo Gabba Gabba and Teen Titans Go! more than almost any kid I’ve ever met. I make pretty good pancakes. I can hold more pop culture trivia in my brain at one time than is deemed healthy for a single individual by the Surgeon General. I can juggle.But you put two boys with ADD and a dad with ADD into a room or on a project together for too long and the result is often complete disaster.What was I saying? Oh, yeah…So I’m more of a sideline coach and I let Mom mix it up on the field. I work the overall strategy and give pep talks. And I know deep down (way deep, like where it can never be seen or shown or acknowledged — but, trust me, it’s there) she appreciates my armchair quarterback reactions to her parenting decisions. #Teamwork!There are two areas of the transition from my wheeling the boys around in a stroller to their wheeling me around in a chair, however, for which I will always step up to the plate. (How many different sports metaphors can you find in here? Quiz at the end.)First, if they don’t learn how to dress properly right from the very beginning, they will be doomed. This goes for all children. So I am totally serious about them knowing which attire is appropriate for what/when/where and that I don’t think hoodies are a good look for anyone (sorry, Silicon Valley and every sullen emo kid ever). Just to add to this tangent, if I had daughters, the same would go for Uggs. Not cool.Still here? Good.Their education is the other area in which I am overly involved (at least, as far as they’re concerned). Unfortunately, while I am a snappy dresser (no, you don’t need to confirm that with anyone), school was never my thing. My complete disengagement from my own education is the very reason I work to make sure all kids have access to learning environments that motivate them (as individuals) to achieve all they possibly can.But life is busy and education/school/learning is a really big thing and where do I/we start?Well, my techniques have included awkwardly cornering people at conferences, hijacking conversations with experts, deep diving into white papers, and making sarcastic requests for information from teachers and administrators. But that’s just me. I know many of my friends-with-kids are doing the same/different/more for their own families. Parents are hungry for information (and not just the magic solution to helping their children figure out Common Core math homework assignments — trust me, this is an unintended consequence of an otherwise super-important policy shift that I will someday develop a solution for… and make a bajillion gazillion dollars off of).Is this going anywhere, you might be asking. Yes. Ready? Go!(Understanding)  (Knowledge)I thought you said this was going somewhere…Fine.If, like me, you pretend to, but do not actually have all of the answers (and don’t be ashamed of it), run, don’t walk, out (or in) and grab a copy of (Got it? Good.There is truth to be found in the strategy of surrounding yourself with smart people in order to achieve success. And they’re all there in the copy of Could you use some advice from some/many of the top minds in education today? How about some context-setting commentary by folks on the front line of both the now and the future of “school”? Could you just admit that you might possibly benefit from a better understanding of phrases such as “personalized learning”, “competency education”, and “blended learning” already? Sure you/we could. Whether you/we need a life raft or just a swim lesson, it’s all in there (I promise!)Look, my parents didn’t need a guide to my education. Because they understood my school experience as intimately as they did their own. Just as my grandparents understood my parents’ school experience as intimately as they did their own. Because they were so similar as to be indistinguishable. Because the only differences were the wars crammed into the end of each history course or the slight alterations in maps for their geography lessons. There was no difference in how they were taught or where they were taught or when they were taught.We don’t have that luxury. If classrooms in your local schools aren’t very different than your own were, they soon will be. We need to catch/keep up. It’s our responsibility as parents (and as adults concerned about the future of our communities). We all need a little help along the way. It’s okay.There are reflections, strategies, and checklists in I am motivated (usually by fact that I live with a six and nine year-old who act like a cross between grumpy old men and surly teenagers when it comes to getting ready for school in the morning and doing their homework at night). And now I/we have a resource to help me/us #smartnup.(Won’t the boys be thrilled?)

In 1) 2) 3) Why is this important to education?Schooling is still teaching us to memorize facts when access to the accumulated knowledge of the world is only a web search away. It teaches us to view creativity as some kind of freak attribute of the precious few when creative tools and creative education are cheaper than ever. It teaches obedience to patterns and central plans passed down from In other words, school is training us to be fragile.We live in a world that demands daily personal creative destruction. Your future job probably Technology isn’t the only thing that is “disrupting” the world we live in. The cultural and ideological norms we’ve come to accept are always changing around us and (if we’re not careful) making us irrelevant. This has been true of every generation, and it’s no less true of ours.One of the most important things we can do now is to learn how to learn in any circumstance, at any age, and with or without any structure. If we want to thrive in this future (instead of inevitably turning into the kind of people who shake our canes at “kids these days”), we have to make our educations and our careers antifragile.Here are some of the lessons of antifragility from Taleb’s book that rang true for me in The best way to make yourself fragile to change is to never experience it. Sitting in a classroom or at a desk and regulating your time by bells and alarms may be a good way to prepare for the status quo. It’s not the kind of lifestyle that lets you enjoy and participate in the daily revolutions happening all around us.Find a way to test your weaknesses and improve your strengths by doing and learning things you’re not used to. Completely baffled by technology? Try to learn how to code. Cloistered away from the world of the market? Learn how to sell. Don’t consider yourself a literary person? Start reading Jane Austen. Take the roads less traveled by and prepare yourself to adapt by adapting your learning, your skills, and your work even when you don’t have to.School teaches us that obedience to a protocol is enough — that there is no situation that authorities can’t (and shouldn’t) solve for us. Many of us run the risk of believing it. We spend our learning and working lives running away from stress and shirking responsibility for many of our most significant choices. Though we may have long lists of resolutions, we find ourselves unable to produce anything of consequence.On the contrary, people who grow and learn more do harder things with their lives. Our ancestors were reading Shakespeare and Plutarch when they were children. They settled frontiers and raised families as teenagers. They walked twenty miles to school in the snow every day (OK, that last one was a joke). My point is that people who have done extraordinary things in history were not extraordinary people. They simply had the freedom to adapt and thrive with the positive stress of extraordinary challenges.Like them (and all humans) we’re motivated the most by the biggest, most audacious goals we can imagine. Just as a weight trainer gains strength from struggle, we gain most from battling to take our lives and learning to higher plateaus. Some of the best and most lasting human achievements are often discovered through a process of tinkering — taking and working directly with an already-proven framework or model. Antibiotics? Largely an accident. The majority of computer software? Created using some kind of open source or open-standard framework. Even the best works of drama, literature, and music arise from a My point isn’t that innovation only emerges spontaneously. My point is that all great creations share the iterative and hands-on process we use to learn everything from language and bike riding to walking and feeding ourselves. All humans learn these most difficult and significant skills of our lives by just doing them, even in the most schooled cultures.If we want to become truly antifragile, we can benefit from asking what other learning we’ve been denied by making our education about consumption instead of production.The whole process of schooling from kindergarten to college is focused on chasing the ultimate credential — the degree. Ticket to a stable middle class life? Perhaps it was at one point, but we put a lot at stake when we sacrifice our ability to learn independently in order to gain security in a social status quo that has all of the convincing permanence of a pre-voyage What happens when Schooling tends to shield us from taking ultimate responsibility for proving our worth. We put our own names on the line and “skin in the game” when we have to own our work and earn that proof ourselves. That may mean taking a job instead of partying through college. It may mean creating art and subjecting it to brutal ridicule. It may mean being uncomfortable in a foreign country for a few months in order to really learn a language and culture.Having skin in the game won’t just help you to Ultimately, building an antifragile life is about basing our our knowledge and ability on This may seem fairly intuitive. What isn’t intuitive is that we have to Fortunately, it’s easier than ever to leave top-down systems of education for I enjoy philosophy, music, tech, living freely, and discovering frontiers. Alternative education with Accelerated Learning, Tech, Antifragility, and Definite Optimism

Growing up in my family, the importance of education was always stressed to us. Growing up financially challenged made it difficult to receive higher education as public school was the only thing available to us. Growing up hyper active and with a tendency to challenge everything that was told to me, made it difficult for those trying to teach me.I’ve realized that while I love to learn and I love the process of studying and discovery, I am a poor sit-still, classroom student.I believe learning throughout the entirety of your life is vital for your growth and evolution. Think about it, did we stop learning when we were 5 years old? Of course not, we’ve gained a considerable amount of knowledge since the time we were 5. So you might say to me, “Of course I have learned, I went to school.” So what about after college, did you continue to study in a classroom setting or have you been learning from your life lessons outside of the classroom?We have been taught that a formal education is quite valuable to us while the lessons we learn from our life experiences aren’t accepted with as much understanding or held with the same value. While a formal education can help us land a job or help us succeed within our workplace, it is the lessons you learn in your life (when learned properly) that can lead you to happiness, good health, true love, and continual success.The process isn’t easy and it takes patience, complete honesty, understanding, acceptance, and forgiveness. I have discovered much in my life from lessons both mine and not mine. Some errors in judgment I have repeated many times and after many hours of thought process have finally learned the lesson being taught to me while other lessons in my life came quite easily and I moved on swiftly. I have been guilty of stubbornness and of being my own worst critic. Through the role of being my own worst critic, I began to understand that I shouldn’t be and that everyone learns at their own pace. Each person speaks a specific language, and everyone (when they have proven they not only want to change but are putting in the effort) deserves a second chance.There is immense value in knowledge and in knowledge of one’s self. Someone told me the other day that they were “good at this moment” and felt that they “didn’t need to learn anything else right now.” I gave them a simple bit of advice and said “Now that you are good, you should want to learn even more because life keeps moving. Since you are feeling good right now your mind is relaxed and therefore open to new knowledge. Learn more now because it might be knowledge you need that will help you at a point in your life when you’re not so good.”The moments we are at a great place in our lives is the best time to continue learning, growing and evolving. Evolution is a beautiful thing when you are at a place of happy acceptance. The moments we are in turmoil and unhappiness is a great time to learn, grow, and evolve because it will keep you moving toward that great place.Never turn your back on learning something new. What you learn today could help you or someone else in any of your tomorrows.Monica Ortiz is a successful Life Coach, Teacher, and Author. To date, she has helped more than 12,000 people create better relationships, find their dream careers, and rejuvenate their health. She has also been invited to teach workshops at places such as Stanford University and Google.Her book #Author and #Speaker.  I help people reclaim their power by sharing Universal Principles for creating a better life and a more beautiful world. #LearnGrowEvolveJust figuring the best way to be you.

I think the article is misleading about the notion of education.The personal journey that everybody does in schools, college and university is far wider then the status quo of the design approach and strategies. All the different inputs that someone receives while in the rich environment of higher education are tools to question and change the way the things are done.

Sometimes the most obvious education solutions are the hardest to get attention for, much less implement.That’s the way it is with advocating for But this solution is a bit like the Like the prince, we’re stuck grumbling about the current state of affairs and princess candidates that just aren’t cutting it. The failure to link high school standards to post-secondary entrance expectations reverberates through a student’s life — and the nation’s economy.According to an Anywhere from Reforms, such as the Common Core State Standards and the College Completion agenda, are underway at all levels. We’re getting closer. But the U.S. needs systemic reform that joins educators at all levels to pull in the same direction.Imagine all stakeholders — K-12 school staff and administrators, higher education faculty and leadership, workforce leaders, students, government, and accrediting agencies– Tuning USA, which is now 6-years old and underway in several states, is a key part of the solution. Adapted for the American education system from its roots in Europe and funded by the Lumina foundation, Tuning has helped educators align 2- and 4-year post-secondary disciplinary pathways in selected fields. The non-profit So why not tune further to create a signaling system that clearly communicates what is expected at each level of education?In essence, post-secondary education would be signaling to K-12 what high school students need to know, understand and be able to do.We know what greater collaboration can accomplish. In Southern California, high school teachers and college faculty members participating in the English Curriculum Alignment Project (ECAP) achievedFaculty and school leaders from community college and school districts who participated in the Texas Gulf Coast Partnership for Achieving Student Success (GC PASS) project created But the very idea that secondary and post-secondary education should work together has not yet taken root in the highly decentralized and royal domains for the U.S. education system.When and if education decision makers discover this elusive solution, the “happy ever after” will be sweet. Faculty at K-12 and post-secondary levels will work together and align what is taught to improve student success in college and beyond. The need for remedial education could be significantly reduced, shortening the time needed to obtain a degree and making college more affordable students and their families. Employers will get more of what they need from graduates. That’s a pea worth discovering!President/CEO, IEBC - We help education stakeholders use data to make informed decisions, improve practice, and increase student success. 

Ross Hall, Ashoka’s Director of Education Strategy, interviewed Schleicher about the need for education systems to adapt to the demands of the modern world.The world is certainly becoming increasingly ambiguous and volatile. But I believe people have probably always struggled with change. What The question is: how do we respond to this? How do we equip people with the skills that are essential in the modern world? Not as an alternative to disciplinary contexts, in my view. You can teach creativity in mathematics, problem-solving in mathematics, social skills in mathematics. We need to think about what kind of skills we want to develop — and how to use established disciplines to develop these skills.In the past, it was about building relationships with your family and immediate network. Today it’s about building relationships with people who may think differently from you — who may look at the world in a very different way, who come from a different disciplinary specialization. Economic success today is very much about you being able to collaborate, compete and connect with people who are very different from you.It requires the capacity to see the world through different lenses, to appreciate different value systems, to respect different cultures. And those people who are able to do that will find their way through this kind of world. Those people who struggle with this will see the world as threatening to them; they will see globalization as something happening to them, rather than them being part of it.Think about curiosity, for example. How can you write that into a curriculum? Well, you can create the space in the curriculum to develop curiosity, but in the end, it’s really about innovative teaching and innovative practice. It’s about teachers understanding how students learn these skills — and how to support them to learn in their individual learning styles.But that’s very hard to institutionalize. It must come down to building teaching capacity. Building motivation. Giving the space and the support they need to learn from other great teachers. Making sure their ideas are feeding back to improve the system and shape professional practices. Building a much higher degree of professional autonomy, but in a collaborative culture.In Shanghai, they have a platform where teachers share their lesson plans. You upload your lesson plans, and you get more and more popular the more other teachers comment on your lessons, criticize them, improve them, etc. So you’re evaluated by the system, not only on your own work in the classroom, but by the contribution you make to the education system.And in Japan and in parts of China, they have become very good at creating collaborative spaces, in which teachers work together to plan lessons and design lessons. Teachers become not only implementation agents, but also designers of instructional systems — and that creates a very different kind of mindset.The gateways we have in education — whether it’s university admissions or school exams — have a huge influence on how we learn, how we teach and how schools operate. Even the world’s most advanced curriculum or innovative teaching practices won’t have a deep impact unless we align them with those kinds of gateways. Part of the problem today is that there’s a misalignment between the gateways that define success and the learning environments that teachers often aspire to.We did an interesting survey of teachers, and most teachers have a pretty good sense of innovative pedagogies. But then you ask teachers what they do in the classroom, and you get a very different story. And the gap between what teachers feel is necessary and what they actually do is largely explained by the gap in work organization, learning environments and the gateways that we establish.Social and emotional skills have always been important in the framework of PISA. But we’ve only recently become good enough to build assessment instruments around them. We’ve always aspired to assess social skills — collaborative problem-solving skills — but we weren’t able to do that in a way that was technically credible until 2009. And it’s taken us up to 2015 to build a reliable assessment framework to measure them.We should certainly value the skills that are important — and the kind of skills we value should feature in the instruments we use to measure students. It’s very hard to improve what you can’t capture and measure in some way. And that means that we may have to be ready to accept a broader range of assessment methods. We may have to rely more on professional judgment. There may be trade-offs between validity gains and efficiency gains in assessment, or between relevance and reliability. And we have to discuss those trade-offs to get the measures that encompass the kind of skills that we really value in education. So that we give teachers the tools to improve them but also provide schools with recognition of the things we consider are important.And we have to be aware that not everything that is important is easily assessable.Dir. of Education Strategy A publication series on Changemaking by Ashoka’s Start Empathy initiative

Back in my pre-startup life running corporate development for a large educational publisher I saw dozens, if not hundreds, of education technology companies passionately focused on solving a single problem for instructors, students or administrators. While the focus should have simplified everything they were doing very few of them emerged from the morass to become compelling, scalable businesses with sustainable economics. Why is that?In speaking with educators — across K-12 and higher education — they were literally drowning in the number of small point solutions available, none of which talked to each other. So the educators most willing to experiment might try a polling tool, linking some videos from YouTube or an online simulation in addition to their core curriculum but struggled to put it all together into a cohesive and coherent experience for students. In speaking with hundreds of students, they were similarly overwhelmed by the number of things to click on, download, manage in new windows, tabs or on different devices.From the consumer side, one significant lesson learned since the launch of the iPhone in 2007 is the entirety of the user experience matters and that the bits of friction that all of us dealt with for the first 20 years of PC’s can be carefully, and thoughtfully, removed allowing users to focus on — wait for it — the experience that they are seeking. Nothing more, nothing less.Chris Dixon at A16Z, the current Valhalla of Silicon Valley VC, has a great post about the entirety of the experience being what matters. His short-hand is the Back to education, when we started on the path two years ago to what has become Junction we unfortunately didn’t have the benefit of Chris’ insights, but we knew it was critical to deliver a complete experience in a simple, easy-to-use wrapper because And it scales. And we’re already generating millions of rich data points informing how to improve the study and learning process for students. And we’re using data to drive recommendations on how to improve the course design and development process for instructors and instructional designers. And… we’re still just getting going.Is it hard to deliver a beautiful user experience, collect rich data and turn it into valuable insights and directed actions and interventions without it looking like a Frankenstein application? You bet. But the payoff in terms of user delight is massive.With over $1 trillion a year in education spending in the U.S. annually (— — — — — —Ed tech startup founder and industry veteran

Educators crave creativity, students long for lessons that are relevant and employers want graduates to be better prepared when they come knocking on the job-market door. From afar, it seems unrealistic to achieve so much in the current context.But on the ground, the global conversation on innovation in education is much louder and the urge to get rid of the antiquated education system stronger than ever before. In fact, education was one of the most innovative industries in 2014 in the United States with venture and equity financing for ed tech companies soaring to In 2012, MOOCs took the world by storm. From Chicago to Chengdu in China, the general public thought that innovation in education had finally kicked off. Indeed, digital disruption at large has led to the creation of MOOCs, portals like But are MOOCs and mobiles standalone solutions to the problems facing education? Is the future of education solely dependent on technology?The future of education lies at the grassroots level, in the hands of thousands of educators, social entrepreneurs, researchers and experts who are working incessantly to build a sustainable and meaningful education system for all. For example, the young changemakers on this year’s So what will innovation be about in the years to come? It will be about what we learn and how we learn and implement all that we learn in our everyday lives. Innovation will be about designing a new curriculum that matches “real-world needs”, revamping class design to improve interaction and collaboration, reimagining a teacher’s role in classrooms of the future, harnessing Big Data and Artificial Intelligence to improve learning outcomes, and making further advances in neuroscience to understand what happens to the brain when we learn.Around the world, both public and private initiatives have made substantial strides towards reinventing the way we access, teach and learn. In the UK, In remote parts of Bangladesh, The list of examples is endless, just like the innovative ideas that continuously sprout in the minds of the ‘Movers and Makers’ of education around the world.So has the ed tech bubble popped? Maybe… Has the “innovation in education” bubble popped? Not just yet. The winds of change are only beginning to gain momentum.Curator  Global Director A publication series on Changemaking by Ashoka’s Start Empathy initiative

A few months ago, I had the honor of joining a group of our Here are my top three takeaways from this amazing experience:I’ve had the opportunity to travel a lot, but this trip was different. It was life changing to see the impact PoP is making, witness the real, sustainable difference the work has in these communities and to interact with the people in the community. Not to mention, Guatemala is a truly beautiful place.When I say I was blown away, I mean it. Every village we visited welcomed us with such warmth and gratitude. Parades of community members came out to meet us, some of them clapping; live performances and ceremonies were planned, and we were each given thoughtful gifts and food. These moments strengthened our connection to the community members and helped build a genuine human connection.The people are incredible. The mission is incredible. The way they approach the work they do is incredible. As a for-purpose organization, PoP is changing the landscape of what it means to impact communities and the world. I, and everyone at 2U, are so lucky to have found them as a partner.Throughout the years, it has become abundantly clear that community outreach is important to ___________________To learn more about PoP’s work, visit Co-founder/CEO Observations, thoughts and musings about Pencils of Promise and the impact of global education in the developing world.

Submissions have been coming in strong for talks and working sessions for the Working sessions on the other hand haven’t been coming in at the same volume or with the same clarity and I think some of the reason this has happened is because of the intentional vagueness we the co-chairs put into describing what we want. Further, I think we were hopeful that enough attendees of the previous editions of the Education Summit would have inspired enough to give people a sense of what we have done in the past and how to evolve it into the future.To be honest, I’m an experimenter in my education style, so when I create assignments I’m as interested in the interpretation of the instructions as I am in quality of suggested output itself. But to be honest, sometimes even the mix of those results still aren’t satisfactory. And before all the existing submissions freak out, I will say right now that if anyone wants to either submit a 2nd submission or suggest edits for their first submission, I will accept them if after reading this, they feel they can augment their submissions to be more in line.First, watch this video from Amsterdam, 2 Summits ago, where we last had something akin to working sessions. The video is the summary of the entire day at the main conference.Here are the original instruction from the current Call for Participation for working sessions:In 2014, as you can see in the video above, we called the sessions “workshops”. This year we intentionally created a new name, “working sessions” because last year we continued the use of the word workshop. Last year it meant a tutorial. You have knowledge that you want to share in a hands on way and need a stretch of time, like a 1/2 day, to have students go through a lesson, or otherwise just experience the methods that you are interesting in promoting. Those are great, but that is not what we wanted to do this year.Instead this year, we are trying to articulate above, that we want to gave people together to SOLVE a problem in interaction design education that you do not have a solution for but are willing to help us drive a solution towards. The goal here is to create NEW contributions to solving the many problem areas that we are having in the interaction design community.If you watch the video, you’ll see that this is where we left off in 2014. For just sharing your ideas, we have talks for that and we imagine that while the time is limited and these are not experiential engagements, that good speakers with solid content ideas can communicate well enough to convey their messages.It is really important that submissions for working sessions are NOT tutorial like hands-on experiences to convey a lesson, but rather are more akin to the workshops or collaboration sessions of CHI/UPA. Unlike those examples we didn’t want participants to have to complete a submission of their own to the workshop. We want people to feel they can pick and choose and topic they are inspired to work with.Your submission as suggested above needs to clear articulate what is the problem area you are tackling, how you plan on facilitating the sessions, what will be the goals for outcomes and how do you plan on contributing what you’ve done back to the community at large after the event.Here’s a trick that might help some people thinking about this. You have a new design thinking technique you want to demonstrate to people? Well perfect apply that technique to a problem in interaction design education. Boom! double-rainbow win!Dave Malouf is the Principal Experience Strategist at HP Helion Cloud. He loves designing, traveling, teaching, observing, and playing.

Most successful, modern societies share four components — a strong and growing economy, strong community-led organizations and government, excellent healthcare and nutrition, and excellent education — each accessible to all members of society.We are close partners of Summits Education consists of three components -Summits is led by my cofounder and Executive Director, Mike Chambers, who is based in Boston MA US and in Haiti.For more information, please visit Cofounder Blade, Kayak, GetHuman, Boston Light, Intermute, Speed Games, Summits.org

There’s been a lot of discussion among policymakers and the media recently about the pitfalls of using technology in the classroom. Many of these conversations are worthwhile — it’s important to be skeptical when spending scarce dollars for public education. The problem is that this debate often centers around the wrong question: Does technology belong in the classroom?If we keep asking this question, we won’t make any progress. We know that technology belongs to the classroom. Have you ever asked whether technology So why do we talk so much about devices and software?Maybe because it’s easier. Technology is tangible. You can see it, touch it, and interact with it. You can’t see curiosity or persistence. So when technology “failures” occur in our schools, it’s easy to blame what’s right in front of us.In the information age, these failures get attention, spread quickly, and shape our discussions. The absence of failure often goes ignored.Through our work with the So when it comes to technology — something so ingrained in our daily lives — what if we stop asking “should” and start asking “how”?These prompts guided In response, 18 districts It’s easy to see from these films that school districts are doing incredible things that few people outside — or even within — those communities know about. There are small and big victories occurring every day. There are fascinating perspectives on teaching and learning that are not represented in the mainstream media and policy discussions.Take for instance, “Maggie’s Story,” from And listen to the insights in this video produced by students in At our meeting we also learned about a student in Will any of these stories alone shift policy or improve test scores? Probably not. But they can start to change the conversation about public education and technology’s role in it. Learning, not devices, should be the story. It’s up to us to tell that story, or someone else will.A national nonprofit organization dedicated to spurring innovation in education to improve the opportunity to learn for all Americans. 

By Joseph Kerski, EsriPeople have always been fascinated with investigating their home — the Earth. To help understand our planet, ancient scholars in Rome, Greece, and China founded the study of geography more than 2,500 years ago.Today, spatial thinking is more relevant than ever before, as issues such as climate change, economic globalization, urban sprawl, biodiversity loss, sustainable agriculture, water quality and quantity, crime, cultural diversity, energy, tourism, political instability, and natural hazards grow in importance on a global scale but also increasingly affect our everyday lives.To grapple with these issues requires a populace that has a firm foundation in spatial thinking — a populace that can see the “big picture,” but that also understands how different patterns and trends are related, from a global scale all the way down to their local community.Spatial thinking is concerned with all of the relevant issues of our time, because all of these issues have a geographic component.These spatial relationships are analyzed using maps in digital form within a geographic information systems (GIS, remote sensing, and global positioning systems (GPS) technologies make up the geotechnologies, which help people make everyday decisions and plans more effectively and efficiently.In education, GIS offers a powerful decision-making toolkit that can be across administration, policy, and instruction.GIS offers GIS provides educational In GIS is used as an inquiry-driven, problem-solving, standards-based set of tasks that incorporates fieldwork and provides career pathways that are increasingly in demand. It helps students think critically, use real data, and connect to their own community. It does so in informal, primary, secondary, and university settings and appeals to today’s visual learners. Geotechnologies, along with bio and nanotechnologies, are the three key skills and job markets identified by the US Department of Labor for the 21st Century. [1]What is the relationship between birth rate and life expectancy?Why does this relationship exist?How does acid mine drainage in a mountain range affect water quality downstream?How will climate change affect global food production?With GIS, students explore the relationships between people, climate, land use, vegetation, river systems, aquifers, landforms, soils, natural hazards, and much more.With the flood of information available to students today, they need to be able to deal with uncertainty about data, to understand its limitations with regards to error and omissions, and to effectively manage it. GIS is a tool that provides holistic computer and management skills for students, a part of a geospatial technology competency model recognized by the US Department of Labor that includes computer, personal, and organizational competencies. [2]Using GIS provides a way of exploring not only a body of content knowledge, but provides a way of thinking about the world. [3,4] These skills were identified as essential to K-12 education by the National Academy of Sciences. [5]The geographic perspective informs other disciplines. When epidemiologists study the spread of diseases, scientists study climate change, or businesspersons determine where to locate a new retail establishment, they use spatial analysis. In each case, GIS provides critical tools for studying these issues and for solving very real problems on a daily basis.GIS in instruction also incorporates and depends upon fieldwork, which is critically needed for understanding and appreciating our world. [6] Students can gather locations with GPS and attribute information about tree species, historical buildings, water quality, and other variables on a field trip or even on their own school or university campus.GIS-based questions begin with the “whys of where” — why are cities, ecoregions, and earthquakes located where they are, and how are they affected by their proximity to nearby things and by invisible global interconnections and networks? After asking geographic questions, students acquire geographic resources and collect data. They analyze geographic data and discover relationships across time and space.Geographic investigations are often value-laden and involve critical thinking skills. For example, students investigate the relationship between altitude, latitude, climate, and cotton production. After discovering that much cotton is grown in dry regions that must be irrigated, they can ask “Should cotton be grown in these areas? Is this the best use of water and other natural resources?”GIS helps students to act on their investigations, to put their recommendations in place, to improve the quality of lives of people and the health of the planet. Students present the results of their investigations using GIS and multimedia. Their investigations usually spark additional questions, and the resulting cycle is the essence of geographic inquiry.Our world is constantly changing. These changes include those brought about by physical forces such as erupting volcanoes, meandering rivers, and shifting plates, but also those brought about by human forces, such as urbanization.Students use GIS to understand that the Earth is changing, think scientifically and analytically about why it is changing, and then dig deeper: Should the Earth be changing in these ways? Is there anything that I should be or could be doing about it? This captures the heart of spatial thinking, inquiry and problem-based learning. It empowers students as they become decision-makers to make a difference in this changing world of ours.Education at Esri: Esri ConnectEd program: Blog about GIS in education: Spatial Data, quality, sources, Privacy, Crowdsourcing: [1] Gewin, V. 2004. Mapping opportunities. Nature 427: 376–377. 22 January.[2] National Academies Press. US Department of Labor. 2010. Geospatial technology competency model. [3] Bednarz, S. 2004. GIS: A tool to support geography and environmental education? GeoJournal 60(2): 191–199.[4] Kerski, J. 2008. The role of GIS in digital earth education. International Journal of Digital Earth. 1(1): 326–346.[5] National Academy of Sciences. 2006. Learning to Think Spatially: GIS as a Decision-Support System in the K-12 Curriculum.[6] Louv, R. 2005. Last Child In the Woods. Algonquin Books.Esri pursues mapping and spatial analysis with visionary products and services that define the science of GIS.Esri visions, strategic initiatives, and trending topics

This week, Bright is filled with Big Questions (capital B, capital Q). We had two leaders in education write thought-provoking letters to each other about what it means to innovate in education. Do we need a revolution in education? If so, where should it come from? How should we think about scaling big new ideas? Is scale overrated? What role can students and parents play?We also continue to mourn the nine victims of the Charleston shooting. We ask, “How can educators help build future citizens who reject toxic racial ideologies?”Check out a few of this week’s education picks below the jump.Simmons offers nine suggestions for educators to bring race into the classroom with empathy and kindness. Allow students to process with the written word. Anchor your pedagogy in history. Teach with love. We launched a new series this week, called “Build on This.” Our inaugural pair was Sandy Speicher from IDEO and Richard Culatta from the Department of Education. Check out their fascinating five-part conversation — and join in!MOOCs have famously terrible completion and competency rates. Why are they still so popular? “Perhaps one of the overlooked values in MOOCs is not in sharing Ivy League wisdom with the masses, but in teaching educators — and, in turn, improving traditional K-12 schools.”To build on Dena Simmons’ suggestions, check out this crowdsourced syllabus that educators can use to start conversations about racial violence.“On Friday, about 100 temporary employees of the testing giant A performer reflects on being the sole white woman in a show about the 1963 March on Washington, performed in front of high school students in Harlem. “To answer the boy with the big hair and the crew: Is this gonna matter? In scientific terms, we are all matter. Everything is matter. In my own human experience, it takes courage to learn from history, to listen, to care. To be open to other people’s attempts to matter. To allow ourselves to matter.”If you’re receiving this letter, chances are you’re interested in Reach out to me on Twitter (@sarika008) with any thoughts or questions! Otherwise, catch you on the Bright side.Editor of Bright, Medium’s publication about education innovation. Advocate of solutions journalism (Innovation in Education

African leaders from government, academia, the private sector, and multilateral organizations issued a road map for the future of higher education on the continent at a historic summit in Dakar, Senegal earlier this month. The The draft declaration issued by organizers at the end of the conference outlines 16 steps governments and universities need to take to improve higher education in their countries and institutions. Many of the action items are closely aligned with work the Corporation has been engaged in over the past 15 years in helping to improve higher education in Africa. That includes a recognition of the need for more research and collaboration among African universities, in addition to more coordinated engagement with the African Diaspora working in academia worldwide.“Throughout our engagement in Africa, the Corporation has especially prized its relationships with African universities and scholars,” wrote Corporation President Vartan Gregorian in a prepared While there have been great strides in access to higher education across the continent in recent years, Africa still lags far behind the developed world, with about seven percent of the population pursuing higher education, compared to thirty percent worldwide. Africa also puts out far less research. According to conference speakers, less than one percent of academic journal articles come from African institutions of higher education, for example, and the University of Sao Paulo in Brazil produces more PhDs annually than all of Africa. One billion dollars per year is spent by governments on higher education in Africa, while experts say closer to fifty billion is needed.This lack of participation has persisted despite strong economic growth across the continent in recent years. If such growth is to be sustained, more engagement will be needed, Annan The need for education-fueled development is especially urgent in light of the continent’s demographics. Africa is the world’s youngest continent, with 20 percent of the population between the ages of 15 and 24, according to a report in “We need to give hope to Africa’s young people,” said Dlamini-Zuma, who has made access to higher education a key component of the pan-African commission’s long-term development plan, Africa 2063. “People are [our] most precious resource, and we have that in abundance.”Mobilization of the Diaspora was announced as one of the core action items in the Summit draft declaration, with the aim of launching an initiative to sponsor 1,000 scholars every year for the next decade. “The diaspora is a huge force. In the United States, there are at least 25,000 African academics working at universities,” Dr. Paul Zeleza, vice president for academic affairs at Quinnipiac University said, according to Another key development announced at the summit was the creation of the Senegal’s President Macky Sall, who gave a keynote speech, called on fellow African leaders to dedicate one percent of GDP to research.“What is clear is that Africa has the political will to carry this summit process forward,” said Oppah Muchinguri, Zimbabwean minister of education, according to the Carnegie Corporation of New York was established by Andrew Carnegie in 1911 “to promote the advancement and diffusion of knowledge and understanding.”

We have just released a An example from our report: In 2012–13, Wisconsin provided the University of Wisconsin-Madison with approximately $12,410 per full-time-equivalent student (FTE), whereas it provided $5,157 per FTE to the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee and just $3,211 per FTE to the two-year branch campuses.Differentiated state spending among higher education institutions is nothing new. Some legislators and college leaders argue these differences are appropriate and justified due to variations in the quantity and quality of education and related services offered to students. But let’s be honest — the differences in magnitude and distribution of the Wisconsin’s expenditures among in-state institutions raises red flags. While a case might be made that flagship institutions, like the University of Wisconsin-Madison, might require additional funding to maintain its core functions, over and above the statewide average, the opposite case could be made for institutions such as the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, which serves a greater share of first-time college students and students from less-advantaged academic background that, arguably, may require more intensive academic supports and services to complete college. We are also concerned that institutions already operating at the margin have less capacity to buffer students and families from reductions in state funding.The Wisconsin HOPE Lab aims to stimulate a new conversation about state support for higher education — one that is more squarely focused on cost-effective allocations of resources. We will be pursuing a new line of research in this area and hosting additional gatherings to deepen the conversation. We hope you’ll join us.(*I am no longer accepting the things I cannot change; I’m changing the things I cannot accept.* Professor of Educational Policy Studies  Sociology, UW-MadisonAuthentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

With over 70% of its population under the age of 30, Africa has one of the youngest populations in the world.The lack resources and infrastructure to educate this young population has resulted in a huge education gap. According to The majority of parents in Africa view education as the ticket out of poverty for their children, and even those considered to be at the bottom of the pyramid are investing in their children’s futures. Private schools charging as low asOne key factor that is shaping the future of education in Africa is Technology. With mobile penetration now standing at over 50%, the story of rising technology adoption in Africa continues to break records, no doubt driven by the young “mobile-first” generation. Like in many parts of the world, children in Africa are becoming digitally literate at a very early age, further underlining the massive opportunity technology represents for education.It’s not too difficult to see that the old model of education involving brick and mortar schools, a teacher and a blackboard is simply not feasible for Africa if a quality education is to be provided to the millions of young people across the continent who need it. Africa has the potential to leapfrog that infrastructure-intensive education model just as it skipped fixed landlines straight to mobile.There are a number of education initiatives and startups in Africa that are combining technology and learning in interesting ways.Tech startup And These are just a few examples of the EdTech innovation that is sweeping across the continent. On the 8th October, Emerge Education are partnering with This is a free, targeted event for individuals and organisations particularly interested in this area, please register your interest here: Written by EdTech accelerator, London | Helping grow the most innovative startups in education

I come from a family of four: two older brothers and a mother (my father passed away when I was 13). I began school at the age of four, though not because my parents believed particularly in the power of education. However, my mother believed that by sending me to Shanti Bhavan, at least one of her children would be provided with food and shelter every day.In the beginning there were a lot of doubts and questions on how my mother could put me in a boarding school so far away. But soon after starting, I started to speak English and to write it as well. They saw a complete change right in front of their eyes.Or, okay, maybe not At graduation, my entire family showed up to watch me receive my diploma, and when I went to college, supported by Shanti Bhavan and She’s the First, they were there cheering me on every step of the way. They had realized that I would never be like the other village girls, and they were proud of my education, even when others asked why I was not yet married. My mother even jokes, saying that “even if the men of the house don’t have brains, at least the girls do!” — meaning, of course, herself and me.I hesitated as I knew it would be costly and difficult to pay — no one in my family makes a good enough income to pay for this each semester. But they told me to focus and to get my degree, and in the meantime, they’ve borrowed tuition money from family, friends, and other village members in order to support me.I decided to study. I decided that if this opportunity is knocking at my door, why not grab it? I was always taught to make the best of what you’ve got, and I know that as time passes I will be able to change not only my life, but also the life of my entire family. Now, I have just two years left until that becomes a reality — and all because they, too, believe in the power of education.Girls’ education advocate. Feminist. Co-founder and director of international operations at She’s the First.Partnership case studies, insights, and stories worth sharing.

I want to begin by thanking everyone who arranged this presentation today, especially Professor Sara Goldrick-Rab, who invited me to come and talk to you and who, personally, in my mind, represents the best of the “Wisconsin Idea” (for reasons that go well beyond the fact that she asked me to speak here today). Sara is a real activist scholar who has dedicated her scholarship to making a difference in the ongoing struggle to enhance educational opportunities for students not just in Wisconsin but throughout the country. It takes courage and skill to do what she does, especially in the current political climate, most especially here in Wisconsin, ground zero for the continuing political assault on public education that is being financed and conducted in the name of serving highly selective corporate interests. Sometimes you have to bite the hand that feeds you, especially when it has decided to make feeding conditional and to begin rationing.Biting the hand that feeds us when necessary, however, is only possible when there is real academic freedom. That academic freedom allows us to combine scholarship and activism to address critical public problems and it is what is at the heart of the “Wisconsin Idea.” The Wisconsin Idea has been central to the University’s mission since it was first put in place during the era of progressive ferment in the State in 1904, when an optimistic belief in progress suggested that The Wisconsin Idea made the mission of the University not mere idle contemplation as an end itself but one focused on solving public problems so as to improve the lives of all the citizens of the State. It states explicitly that “the boundaries of the university are the boundaries of the state.” Not always in the news, it recently got flagged when there were reports that Governor Scott Walker was evidently not content to continue the democratic commitment of the The Governor quickly back-tracked (as would become a standard practice for him) when reaction was swift, claiming that the proposed change was actually a “drafting era.” Yet, I would argue that this kerfuffle is not so incidental an event but symptomatic of the struggle over the ongoing transformation of higher education nationwide. In other words, the Wisconsin Idea is now under assault not just here in Wisconsin but across higher education nationally.Here in Wisconsin, more than the current budget cuts or changes in the policies governing tenure for the faculty or even the proposals to eliminate duplication across campuses according to a business logic of bottom-line efficiency, the suggestion that there needs to be movement away from the Wisconsin Idea suggests a fundamental transformation is being contemplated in ways thatIt is for this reason I want to focus my talk today on why the Wisconsin Idea should be seen as still under assault now that the dust of recent conflicts has settled. Simply successfully resisting a rewriting of the mission statement of the University does not ensure its ability to stay committed to pursuing that mission. Other mechanisms are available to undermine a mission statement which in process can become an empty gesture. Those other mechanisms include those budget cuts, changes in faculty tenure policies, plans structure campuses according a business logic that eliminates duplicating departments, and other changes and these kinds of changes are associated with a broader agenda to transform the university to make it more consistent with business models.The assault on the Wisconsin Idea is inseparable from the other mechanisms of the business model agenda to transform the university. My argument is that these are all of a piece of an effort to transform the university in ways that cannot but lead it away from its democratic mission that is the core of the Wisconsin Idea. Given the pervasiveness of efforts to follow this business logic nationally, I am concerned about the implications ongoing changes via these kinds of mechanisms not just for the vitality of the University here in Wisconsin, but how this current assault is indicative of nationwide transformation of higher education that poses a threat to the relationship of higher education, particularly public higher education, and its relationship to promoting democracy in the U.S.There is ample evidence that what is happening here in Wisconsin is symptomatic of national changes related to the ongoing corporatization of the university that is currently unfolding right before our very eyes in an age of what is best referred to as neoliberalism. Neoliberalism has been variously defined, but for me it is the most recent incarnation of a hyper-capitalist approach to combining politics and economics, that involves blurring the boundaries of the state and the market, marketizing the state to run more along market lines in the name of not countering the market but buttressing it so the state acts in ways to The neoliberalization of higher education is in fact currently unfolding in real time often behind our backs as we deliberate about what to do next, and in the process risking the end of the public university as a viable entity in our society. Now, when I proposed my talk originally to Sara I had particular events and people in mind who have been central to this process of neoliberalizing the University here in Wisconsin. (Part of what it means to be an activist scholar, as opposed to being a disconnected theorist or detached researcher, is to be willing to be specific about who is doing what, and why they and what they are doing should be called into account.) But today, who and what I had in mind now all seems like yesterday’s news. Back then Governor Walker was running for President like several other current or former Republican governors, Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, Chris Christie of New Jersey, Jeb! Bush of Florida, George Pataki of my state New York, and John Kasich of Ohio. Governors have proven in recent decades to be successful presidential candidates (and that sometimes makes them mistakenly think they are viable presidential candidates when nothing could be further from the truth). Like Jindal, Christie and Kasich, Walker was a sitting governor who sought to run on his record as a proven chief executive. Like Jindal and Christie, Walker had a distinctive approach to running for the Republican nomination that involved taking dramatic actions as governor which seemed to be self-consciously crafted as much to promote their presidential candidacies at least as much as doing what they thought was best for their respective states. It is a hard competition to decide which of these three did more damage to the well-being of their states and their citizens in the process of getting almost nowhere in the presidential campaign.Nonetheless, we can say there is strong empirical evidence that Scott Walker has not been good for Wisconsin in many different ways, whether it is about the treatment of workers, unionization, the schools, the university, jobs, taxes and the overall economy. Wisconsin once was very similar to Minnesota Yet, it is a mistake to think that campaign incompetence suggests political impotence. The powerful do not always get what they want, but they can wreak a lot of havoc in the process of flexing their muscles. Scott Walker has changed Wisconsin in ways that undermine the relationship of its great university to its traditions of promoting democratic politics. His explicit efforts to undermine the Wisconsin Idea and related attacks on the University’s funding and governance have weakened protections for academic freedom and the pursuit of scholarship that serves the public interest broadly pursued. How can faculty feel secure to tackle controversial public problems with their research if they are supposed to be focused on creating trained workforce for the State’s changing economy? How can students get classes they need to become more informed, critical-minded citizens if they are supposed to be taking courses that make them a better fit for that workforce?Neoliberalizing the university so that it runs more along business lines to better serve business interests inevitably means de-democratizing the university and undermining its ability to serve democracy. It poses the threat of nothing less than the end of the Wisconsin Idea and the creation of a more neoliberalized university that helps reproduce the inequalities associated with the market at the expense of the inclusion associated with a democratic system. The fact of the matter is that this has already happened, admittedly in some states more than others. In Florida, the Koch brothers have sought to endow professorships that teach economics according their understanding of how it should be taught uncritical of U.S. capitalism and by professors they Many flagship public university campuses now get most of their funding from sources other than their state governments furthering a reduction in the role that democratic politics has in affecting what goes on in the university and further removing the university from focusing on serving democratic ends. The public universities are increasingly confronting budget cuts as states fail to support them at prior levels. The anti-tax movement and the hollowing out of the welfare state have over time forced state universities to seek alternative sources of funding. Among public colleges and universities, state and local funding per student decreased only 2–4 percent in 2011 — substantially lower than the 6 percent to 15 percent declines observed during the Great Recession. Nonetheless, state and local support reached a decade low in 2011, As a result, students at public colleges and universities now pay 50–60 percent of the cost of their education — an 18–22 percentage point increase for 2001–2011. For the same period, at community colleges, student costs rose by 15 percentage points amounting to 38 percent of their total educational costs. Overall, increases in the student share of costs at public institutions grew for the decade between 54–62 percent on average. Increases in tuition have led students to borrow more money but also work at paid employment more while attending school and the results indicate Educational debt among current students continues to mount as we speak reaching $68 billion in 2015, at an average of $35,051 per student, more than double what it was Inequalities are intensified when public universities decide to rely more on out-of-state students paying higher tuition thereby compounding the process of further detaching the public university from the public it serves. Wisconsin-Madison is but one of a number so-called flagship public university campuses that have periodically sought new revenue from increasing the number of out-of-state students thereby reducing seats in classes for Even when the concern is to educate the students from in-state, the solution increasingly is to turn to away from traditional academic leaders and recruit a business executive who is adept at repurposing staff and resources to attract alternative sources of funding, as recently was the case with the With the shift away from government support for public universities, increasingly state funding is seen as “seed money” that helps finance neoliberal efforts to attract financing from investors via bond markets (The growing reliance on temporary adjuncts for instruction further undermines the integrity of an autonomous faculty who are less dependent on student approval and can rely on job protections to exercise the academic freedom to pursue research topics critical to addressing democratic concerns. This is a well-documented, growing threat to the integrity of the academy, and to academic freedom and the ability of the university to serve democracy. A recent report from Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives in 2014 noted:Some studies put the percentage of faculty who adjunct even higher and the proportion of all courses taught by adjuncts surpassing Still other changes are at work undermining the quality of instruction and increasing the inequality of access to courses that best serve students. The continuing proliferation of online instruction disconnects students from each other and de-sensitizes them from the interactions essential for democratic deliberation. Yet, even as criticism of reliance on online instruction grows, it is proving to be an irresistible way to Nonetheless, there is no denying that things have changed in ways that need immediate attention. Many parents and their children worry that the liberal arts are increasingly not able to deliver on the promise of a middle-class lifestyle that academic administrators long championed as almost a guarantee from investing in a college education. While the economic returns for that investment still are proven in economic studies, they increasingly are only robust when students attend the In this sense, Scott Walker is just the latest personal embodiment of the thoughtlessness of today’s neoliberalism. Walker is not a fascist, an authoritarian dictator or even a mere corporate shill. He is perhaps however a willing servant of neoliberalism and his major casualty is the university and its relationship to democracy. He is undoubtedly less explicit about this than he could be. He works under the radar, dog-whistling to his supporters in implicitly highlighting what interests he serves for fear of stating so publicly. Part of the reason however may be that he also could be practicing what many do today in enacting what Jamie Peck has brilliantly labeled “Yet, by standing up now against the university’s neoliberalization, in thoughtful ways consistent with the Wisconsin Idea, we can push back against this assault on our democracy while working to facilitate more opportunities for students to go on to thrive economically. As concerned citizens, as engaged students, and as scholar-activists, as thoughtful participants in institutions to dedicated to educating the next generation, we need not simply go along with neoliberalism as a *I am no longer accepting the things I cannot change; I’m changing the things I cannot accept.* Professor of Educational Policy Studies  Sociology, UW-Madison

It began with an assignment. I asked my first-year students to write a short essay on the purpose of college. It was an intentionally vague prompt to see if they could tell me something really interesting about themselves — their ideas and hopes and beliefs on education and purposefulness and life and whatever and As I began marking the essays I got frustrated. Most of the essays focused on the fact that college is ‘about’ self-discovery. Education played a small, very vague part of this, and the idea of adulthood, foreboding and distant, and the pressures of being a ‘success’ in that so-called future adulthood, played a very big part. There was not that much discussion on what success actually means, or adulthood for that matter, but there were lots of very confident declarative statements about the ‘real world’ and our presumably imaginative world in higher education’s role in preparing young people for, what I assume, some sort of future Babbitry.And this made me sad.But then things turned around. How did they, you ask? (If you are still reading after the above predictably pathetic teacher rant about kids these days.)I had to remind myself at a few points during our discussion of C.S. Lewis’s So then I got super empathetic.Tomorrow, I am going to dedicate some time to talk about their essays. Then I want us to talk a bit about their thoughtfulness in the classroom and ways to put that sophistication and enthusiasm into their writing.It isn’t an easy skill, but it is a necessary one for both making it through college and for life.So maybe tomorrow we’ll have better luck talking about why they’re here and what we’re supposed to be doing. I think that’s a good use of part of our time together.Gettysburg College is a highly selective national four-year residential college of liberal arts and sciences. Collecting words, phrases, pops of poetry, and all things writing. This publication is sister to 

According to As A diverse group of cultural institutions have also begun to embrace the maker movement, creating valuable opportunities for students and adults, while also expanding and re-imagining what a makerspace can look like. Museums, science centers, libraries, nature centers, and other mission-driven organizations have been creating activities and spaces (either physical or virtual) using makerspace learning principles: experimentation, (peer) collaboration, self-directed learning and an active, iterative learning process. The maker movement is really a natural fit for cultural institutions to explore as they often have qualified educators with as much, if not more, subject-specific expertise than most teachers. Cultural institutions also have more flexibility than schools and are not restricted by the need to devote time to test preparation and mandated curriculum; and they have dynamic and unique physical spaces they can flexibly leverage.Local community libraries comprise one type of cultural institution that has been at the forefront of rethinking its collective role in education, particularly as more and more texts become digitally translated. For instance, a team of librarians created Like libraries, museums  cultural institutions are traditionally understood by the average citizen as places to visit independently and passively consume the information contained in displays and exhibits. In part thanks to influences from the makerspace movement, this is rapidly changing and museums are actively working to incorporate hands-on collaborative activities into their programming. Importantly, cultural institutions’ ability to successfully incorporate makerspaces into their programming is not limited by their subject-matter expertise as there are well-documented examples of organizations’ ranging from nature centers to historical societies to art museums to science centers successfully capitalizing on the maker movement.For example, the The The Even cultural institutions that are not typically associated with technology, such as nature centers, can create collaborative learning and making spaces for students. Community gardens are a prime example, where students (as well as adults) can come together to ‘make,’ and by doing so explore the biological and chemical processes at work in the outdoors. The Building learning environments for students is essential to the mission and relevance of cultural institutions. Organizations that build active learning processes into their content will be able to attract and hold their patron’s attention, making a much greater impact on students. Makerspaces are one manifestation of such active learning processes. While their roots might be firmly planted in the computer sciences, per the above examples, there is no reason that makerspaces need to be the sole domain of technologists and tech-enabled organizations. The general principles of engaging learners through hands-on, self-directed, project-based learning are easily translated across all cultural institution missions and subject matter emphases, and the maker movement provides a great opportunity for such organizations to continue to pioneer alternative pedagogical approaches to the increasingly assessment-centric education system. While there are plenty of examples of schools investing in makerspaces (recently highlighted examples include a Florida The arguments in David Edgar’s influential Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

An open innovation challenge to help refugees get access to a quality educationWhilst researching for my Learning {Re}imagined book I visited the Thus it has been my privilege to have been working alongside colleagues from IDEO, UNHCR Innovation and DfID over the last days on an open challenge to design education solutions that help refugees learn new skills and gain access to a quality education.This challenge has now been opened to the world’s educators and the general public. I urge you to share your ideas and get involved in this collaborative open innovation work.To find out more, collaborate with other innovators and share your ideas please head to the OpenIDEO Heretic - formerly Learning Without Frontiers now Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

This is a video I felt I had to make regarding education: it was filmed somewhere between 4 and 5 am (I don’t know if you can see what the clock in the background is pointing to or not), and so there are a couple of mistakes in regards to somethings I said, which I tried to polish through editing. But I hope you see the good-natured video for what it is, exactly that: good-natured.18, British, eyebrow didactivist: because my terrible brows send a moral message 

Education and career training are lifelong, dynamic processes as unique for each individual as his fingerprints. So then why is our educational system static, or structured as if there is a system of education and a path to employment that works for everyone? And why is that system, which attempts to prepare our children and workforce for a constantly fluctuating and dynamic economy, so inflexible?Born in an age of industrialism, our current education model treats most students in exactly the same way. Children and young adults are placed on a single path, an assembly line that leads to a four year college. In this education factory, grades and standardized testing trump creativity and innovation. Children who don’t thrive in this mold and either can’t afford college or don’t want to go, are largely forgotten. And even those who make it to the end by graduating college aren’t necessarily well equipped, either for their own personal goals or for the needs of the modern economy. Generations of children are pushed towards the same end goal without much attention given to what happens once they get out, or to those who never go at all.We desperately need an updated education system, a flexible model that better supports our students, and in turn supports the needs of an highly technological, complex, and skill based economy. Today, the needs of the market increasingly outpace the abilities and curricula of our education system, the infrastructure of which cannot respond at our economy’s rate of change. Businesses across the country, but perhaps most notably those in the energy, healthcare, and tech startup sectors are hungry for properly trained and skilled candidates. Many of these companies don’t need students with a four year bachelor degree but instead desperately seek highly skilled labor, skills that can be learned in half the time and for a fraction of the cost.Community colleges and tech programs are already attempting to fill the workforce void by offering cheaper, non-degree courses that allow students to learn the skills that match the needs of local businesses and industries. In fact, community colleges and tech programs can be more hands-on and creative learning environments than their traditional counterparts. In many of these institutions, students actively engage in problem solving in a real world environment instead of passively absorbing information in schools that can sometimes be disconnected from the needs of their communities. By narrowing the gap between our education practices and the final possibilities of career paths, our education system could not only become more efficient, but we would also more completely integrate our schools and communities, allowing them to be living, breathing support systems for each other.I’m not advocating for the end of four year colleges; for many of our students that path works wonderfully. But we do need to start fully respecting and developing access to other paths (and the students who wish to take them) that lead to careers just as lucrative and fulfilling, particularly since our economy demands it. Policy makers, innovators, tech leaders, and educators must all contribute their unique perspectives that can inform a new educational ecosystem that not only fills skill gaps in our economy, but also encourages engagement and fosters innovation at all levels, from the lower grades to the re-training of fertile minds later on in life.But if our educational system is not open to disruption, change, and flexibility, our economic growth could suffer and “non-traditional” students will continue to be ignored while traditional students graduate college or even higher institutions without the skills to enter the workforce. If we will finally dismiss the ingrained notion that the best and most respected path to success and career preparation is a traditional college, we will more completely educate America’s youth and unlock the unique potential of our national workforce.Representing Arkansass First District in the United States Congress

When your parents were growing up, the internet didn’t exist. It’s crazy to think about this — it’s so tightly integrated into our lives today that it seems impossible to live without. While we all vaguely understand the concept that it has “changed everything”, I think there’s one fundamental change that many people have not realized yet, although I do predict that it will be a core part of life in coming generations. It’s the fact thatThis concept is absolutely mind-blowing, and rips apart all the ways that society has been built over the years. Pre-internet generations relied on school and poorly-stocked libraries with outdated books to teach them what they wanted, and they paid for both. Traveling was quite difficult indeed, there was no way to know what to do, whether places and activities were safe, how to speak and communicate, etc. The only way to get close was to carry heavy and probably outdated books with you. If their lamp’s cord, bike tire, or the pipe in the sink broke, they would have to call and pay someone to fix it, and they would have no way other than word-of-mouth to know how good that person was.Ok, I’ll come clean — honestly, you probably though that none of this was Let’s jump into some examples. My girlfriend and I were researching how we would travel around the middle east the other day. In no more than 10 minutes, we determined which areas are safe and unsafe, how to handle passports and border crossings, and how to get from Amman, Jordan to Cairo, Egypt for cheap via public transit. Think about this — it is One more. As anyone who knows me personally may already know, my girlfriend and I have a Now, I always fix my own electronics, and I love it. When I was visiting a family friend during this trip, I asked if they had a soldering iron I could use to fix my girlfriend’s charger, which had recently broken. I remember his reaction of being genuinely surprised and telling me “I didn’t know you could just fix these things, I thought you just had to buy a new one!”The internet is young, and the time when the internet has been saturated with free information on how to learn anything is even younger. lifelong learnerAdventures in Learning, Life, and Happiness

How many phone numbers do you remember? The only phone numbers I still remember by heart are landline phone numbers that I knew for over two decades. What about other types of essential information? Do you remember your passport number, or other important national identification number? Birthdays of your closest friends and family? Delegating the function of memory seems to have become the new norm, for almost anyone who owns a mobile phone.In contrast, there was a It would be fair to start by reflecting on how we got here: delegating several of our mental responsibilities to the devices and services around us.In the early days of mobile phones, i.e., before touch screen based smartphones became mainstream, memory-replacement functions were not widely popular. For instance, Nokia mobile phones had calendar functions that included anniversaries or birthday alarms, but very few people used them. Creating any event or data on the mobile phone was seen as hassle, particularly because of the small screen. The ease of access largely dictated usage patterns of non-communicative applications on the phone, unless it somehow became an integral part of user’s habitual routine (e.g., alarm clock) or replaced an existing tool (e.g., calculator, watch). And needless to say, the mantra of the mobile UI design in the old days was to prioritize the ease of access to key communication functions by all means, such as phone calls, messaging, call log, and phonebook.During the research on the mobile phone usage in 2003, I did notice people were appropriating the phonebook and messaging applications to store bits of information. Phonebook was used to store passwords and PIN codes and bank details. Text message editor was used to scribble down quick notes saved as draft messages. Cameras on the phone were also used to take quick notes.But people still had the strong feeling towards how much they delegated their memory to ‘machines’. In 2003, Reliance on the mobile phones quickly evolved beyond replacing personal memory, especially as mobile phones evolved and mobile internet became common place. In ethnographic interviews with smartphone users in South Korea in 2008, I noticed that people stopped arguing on certain data points relying on their memory alone: If an argument broke up on a movie star during a social evening with beer, someone would take the smartphone out and search her filmography. The patterns of our small talk and social dialogs were gradually transformed.Then it goes even further. We take it for granted now that our brain, smart devices, and internet services should divide their functional loads. We are defined not only by our own, independent cognitive ability, but also highly by our ability to utilize connected resources — be it information, or ‘digitally mediated’ social network.The human race has relied on tools since prehistoric times. Tools that do not directly relate to the survival, especially intellectual tools, took a long time to be adopted by the mass. And they were subjected to debates and criticisms. Here is an excerpt from Phaedrus, in which Socrates tells a story from Egypt on the invention of letters:The above excerpt raises two issues. One is about the ability that is an inherent part of oneself. The other is about the vulnerability of the creation that is separated from its creator, subjected to the interpretation and, potentially, abuse. If I consider the modern educational system, we all spend years in an institutionalized educational system to foster skills related to both: Memorizing words, key dates, spellings, and formulas; learning how to gain knowledge and understanding from the written media, i.e., reading comprehension. There are far more skills than these we learn in schools, of course, but these skills have become a handy tool to evaluate students, namely, in exams. And in our modern society, there are a lot of reasons why we want to apply exams as a way of categorizing people.Not just because I didn’t like it — but I didn’t see much point of the history exams with multiple choice questions asking me to recall the exact year and date of some wars breaking in even before the era of ubiquitous internet search. Now such 1-dimensional information retrieval tasks seem too trivial to judge a person’s character with, unless there is a more meaningful reason why it has to be remembered by heart. But increasingly, I see it’s important for someone to be ‘resourceful’ in finding and discovering new information quickly, or even forming a collaborative network of people to achieve a goal. Can it be taught, or should it be learned through simulated experiences? More importantly, would these skills be something that our future institutionalized education systems testing their pupils with? Or am I looking at the future where the exams and tests are not meaningful at all anyway?Beginning of 2015, I ran a research project on how women use mobile internet in Kenya, India, and Indonesia with Across countries, Google was one of the most well known internet brands, often used as a synonym for ‘Internet search’. However, those who had used Google invariably stayed on using it as if it were a dictionary: They looked up simple definitions, and clicked on first few links. But they were rarely able to use it in the sense of discovering new, useful resources for them. To illustrate what I mean, this is an excerpt from an interview with Ana, living in Depok, Indonesia — a suburban area outside Jakarta:In Indonesia, we were told that there is an introduction to Internet in junior high school curriculum since 2006. So almost all participants — both young and old — were aware of internet search (dubbed ‘Google’) and email. All the young participants who owned smartphones were social media savvy, typically having accounts in multiple social networks such as Facebook, Path, Line, Whatsapp, and Blackberry Messenger. But rarely they went beyond using social networks. In fact, the internet for them, to a large extent, came in packages of smartphone apps, and all they were doing was downloading popular social media apps and signing up for them. For them, to sign up to the same social network together as a close circle of friends has become an integral part of social rituals. They clicked on the links that they encounter in the social network with little discrimination. When they needed something, they would ask their extended ‘friends’ within the social networks. Ana was very well versed with all the social network services, and social networks were the small internet universe. She wanted to open her ‘online shoe store’ and her plan was to use Blackberry messenger for that. When she needed information, she would ask her social network. That was her definition of ‘internet search’.I thought Ana would be an exception at first, but her limited use of internet was a typical pattern among other research participants who had the similar level of knowledge. Even though there was a lot of interest in finding a job, none was even aware of the existence of specific websites dedicated to the job search. For most of them, internet existed in the islands of popular social networks — with occasional needs to jump out.What is the desirable ability to acquire, with and without the smart devices?There are clear needs to invest in nurturing digital literacy, to be able to meaningfully use not only the currently available tools but also upcoming ones; to integrate digital tools safely, morally, and healthily in our everyday lives. This, in turn, presents more significant challenges to the institutionalized educational system, to look beyond having separate ‘computer’ classes.-Coincidentally, it is my birthday today. I made my birthday visible to my Facebook friends last year. What difference it makes in the number of birthday greetings I receive: I know it relies heavily on how well their mobile phone or Facebook is set up to notify birthdays, but I still enjoy the ‘pings’ left by the most unexpected acquaintances. It doesn’t alter my sense of the closest social network I have, but the expected meaning of receiving these messages definitely has altered.null

If you went to international school, boarding school, or studied at university abroad, it would be safe to say that you come from a wealthy family. You don’t need to be a billionaire, but you are probably better off than 90% of the people in Thailand. Being able to attend international school is a class above the average person. You are seen in a different light, and somewhat treated in a different way. So, for a start, I figured it would be interesting to look at how much all this actually costs. Here’s the break down:For the top international schools in Bangkok, you end up paying between There’s no doubt, if you sent your child to one of Bangkok’s top international schools, he or she will already be speaking english like a farang. And of course, your little one is probably rolling up to school in an Alphard or a Mercedes whilst being fed breakfast by their lovely nannies.Things only go uphill from here, just like your parent’s blood pressure when they are dealing with you during your teenage years.If you decide for your child to finish high school in Thailand, you will be roughly paying no less than However, if you can also turn things up a bit and decide to send your child to boarding school for high school. That will cost you at the very least Now if you really want your kid to be a “dek-nork” and not send them to Chula or Thammasat Inter, lets average 4 years of college tuition to So, by the time your child is around 21 or 22 years old you would have paid between Don’t forget, we haven’t even factored in the cost for food, transportation in Thailand, airplane tickets to college, tutors, and all the many other things you will have to pay for until your child graduates. So its certainly safe to say that one child can cost you at least That’s a flipping large amount of money you will have to make over the course of your child’s educational career. Well, it’s a lot, unless you already have the money already. This means that, every year, a parent will have to be spending roughly 1 million baht on their child’s education. To financially make sense, your child tuition shouldn’t cost more than 10–20% of your annual income.This huge number means that there is extremely little room for social/educational mobility. Of course, I am making this statement under the notion that international education both in Thailand and abroad is, on average, better than your typical Thai school education.According to the world bank, the average income in Thailand is around Hopefully through all this, I have shown you that receiving a high-quality education costs a lot. I’ll write later about Thai education and compare it to what I have written here, but it is pretty clear that there are two separate worlds of education in Thailand. One for the extremely wealthy and one for the rest of the people.Most political discussions tend to end with an agreement that the education is Thailand’s biggest problem. A large part of the population is not educated enough. And as the anti-Thaksin camp would claim, uneducated people end up making bad political decisions and get “tricked” to elect corrupt politicians into office. Although we know that all this is bullsh*t, it will most likely remain this way given the current educational system.The education one receives certainly reflects and translates into their position in society. For this reason, we can see a general trend of rich and “educated” people looking down on poor and “uneducated” people. Your nanny that take you to school every since you were a child will probably be a nanny for the rest of her life. The economic and social inequality in Thailand is so bad that it doesn’t allow her to one day dream of sending her child to international school. And as for you? Be happy with the opportunity you have and take advantage of it. Most importantly, don’t look down on someone because they are poor or less educated than you.I’ll write a bit about Thai politicsThai Politico aims to make sense of the confusing politics in the Land of Smiles. We aim to provide liberal, realistic, and unpartisan commentary to keep our readers informed and entertained.

1. My eldest is turning 7 next year. I was told by my parents that it used to be quite simple, really — you register with the Ministry of Education, and you get the school nearest to your residence. Everyone goes there, basically.2. But it’s really a sign of our times that I now have a wide range of choices available for primary education. There’s the classic national school system (SRK, SRJKC etc), religious boarding schools and the new-new private education options separated into private KBSR and private International (although often housed and served by the same private education group).3. Let’s just put it this way — private education IS expensive. To put things into perspective, one of the cheapest in the Klang Valley charges more per year for a Standard 1 education (KBSR stream) than it cost me for my 5.5 years to get a degree (albeit, it’s UiTM…).4. By my calculation, it would cost more than RM 300,000 (at the lower end of the scale) to finish all the way to SPM for one child. Going International is even more expensive. Best part? There’s NO guarantee that your kids will score in the exams.4. Yet, the business is growing — which means despite the price point, demand is exceeding supply. We went and surveyed 4 different schools. Each had plans to expand — whether adding buildings or opening another campus.5. This is a worrying trend primarily because it creates further segregation by way of class/wealth. It is not guaranteed but kind of implied that private education is better than public education. Kids who get better education will generally turn out better than those who don’t. They get better paying jobs, better job security etc. That is not even including the various cross-learning and character-building the kids will be missing from mixing with people wealthier or poorer than them.6. A corollary to Point 5 is that by virtue of the unequal distribution of wealth here in Malaysia among races, the rise of private school will further cause racial divide. I can say that of all the private schools I visited, almost 90% of the student population are non-Malays. It can be implied that if the private schools and SJKC are filled with Chinese students, there will be less of them in the regular SRKs — and this is exactly what is happening even in places as demographically diverse as Subang Jaya.7. Racial segregation at school is already happening unwittingly by way of geography — a whole township can be built where the residents are almost exclusively from one race. Naturally, the SRK nearby would also be filled of people of the same race. You’d be hard-pressed to find an Indian or Chinese student at any public school in central Shah Alam, for example.8. I personally feel that children should be exposed to different culture and way of thinking from an early age. If I remember correctly, I would have been the 1st or 2nd in my classes IF there were only Malays. Alas, the non-Malays (primarily Chinese) would grab the top 3 spots. This, for me, is a good example of healthy competition — essential for the kids to know real life don’t care whether you’re brown, black, yellow, white.9. Another point is that private education creates an imbalance economic incentive for teachers, further sucking talent out of the public school system. I mean, why should they stick around for less pay, more paperwork and more students when they could offer their services to the private sector? As more and more private schools pop-up, you will see less experienced teachers at public school. The quality gap between private and public education will be EVEN worse, drawing even more demand for private education, starting another debilitating downward spiral for public education.10. Finally, as the quality gap increases, so does the financial pressure on parents. Huge sums of money have to be put aside just so they could keep up with their peers who can afford private education. After all, 80% is good but not if others are getting 95%. The reality of life is as such.Why Is This Happening?11. It’s pretty “happening” to be blaming the Government for everything and I hoped you guys don’t see this post as such but the reality is that education policy, strategic direction, implementation and quality is under the purview of the Government.12. I personally feel that there is a failure to even identify the critical issues with our education system. Instead, we tend to harp on the “trends” in education without understanding the cause and effect. A prime example is this shift away from exams to assessments purportedly as a measure to create more “thinking” graduates. The reality is that a culture that promotes transparency, freedom of speech, access to information will create these so called “critical thinkers” better than any formal education system. You can’t employ Scandinavian education methodologies while at the same time expect your students not to be critical of issues that affect the nation, to kow-tow to religious views without questioning etc.13. Culturally speaking, we are similar to our fellow Asian countries. Singapore, South Korea, Japan and China are prime examples of exam-oriented education system yet capable of producing world beaters. Why try to reinvent the wheel when the problem is not the bicycle but the person riding it?14. There are perhaps more examples of Government’s intervention that readers could highlight on. My point is that Government’s efforts thus far has been haphazard, and changes according to the whims of the political class at the expense of our children’s future.15. If there is a failure to identify the actual complaints, causes and effects, how could one trust that the quality of our public education will not further deteriorate? And a good barometer of public confidence in our public education is private education enrollment!Is There A Better Way?16. The goal is not to eliminate private education, but to ensure that the quality gap is not too wide — especially in critical areas — to public education. In this way, the choice would be a simple matter of wanting a more comfortable environment, more personalized education for your child rather than a “smart or stupid” one.17. Towards that end, and this is a drastic one, I propose that Education should be led by professionals, not politicians. It should be led by a statutory body reporting directly to Parliament — there would be no need for an Education Minister. Instead, a committee comprising of various education experts would drive the Education Body and ensure whatever plans or blueprint would receive widespread acceptance from the legislature, and continuance of the plans and blueprint despite changes to Government. Drastic, yes, but a necessary first step.18. Technically, I would like to propose a radical shift from two-session arrangement to a new single-session system. This is to allow for the running of a morning-to-evening syllabus. The morning session runs as per current but without Agama or Pendidikan Moral. Instead, 2pm-4pm session is appropriated daily for “cultural education”. This includes Pendidikan Islam for the Muslims, and the respective language and cultural classes for the non-Muslims. This is the only time that students are separated by way of their race/religion.19. Allocate 2 hours (4–6 pm) every day towards “human capital development” programs such as arts, music, debates, sports. This for me is a better solution than trying to teach them maths and then assessing them based on subjective standards. If you want to promote creativity, let them be creative. Not ask them to be creative in a non-creative subjective.20. The daily cultural education program is important as the next critical step is to integrate the SRJKs, sekolah agamas and more into the present SRK. Malaysia is perhaps unique in that the Government has to support so many different streams of public education. This creates wastage and inefficiency. The solution is to show SRKs CAN promote Chinese education, Islamic education or whatever in a more holistic manner.21. Let teachers be teachers. They shouldn’t fill in paperwork or participate in administrative matters. They should be allowed significant leeway in teaching methodology BUT should be rated and rewarded based on a set standard (so yeah, none of that subjective assessment crap). Compensation structure must tally with performance of students and they could be re-assigned even removed for poor-performance. In exchange for this, pay teachers the market rate. Hire professional administrators to manage operational matters.22. Do NOT abandon exams. Do NOT spend money on pointless computer programs. Do NOT create “cluster schools” that only heightens the impression that some schools are given more priority than others. Every school should be given the best opportunity to thrive.23. We could probably think of more technical suggestions — like abandoning blanket subsidies on public education and charging parents based on their wages — but it should be grounded by more data, of which I have none.In fact, this entire piece is purely anecdotal. It is hoped that some rich Arab patron would read this, be impressed, and donate some money to my personal account (I prefer Maybank by the way). I’ll settle for USD 7 million, thanks.Is the juice worth the squeeze?

The definition of what it means to be educated is unfixed, changing through history. Before the Since history has shown educational emphasis to be malleable, what if we were to design a curriculum for modern times from scratch? What would we include? Need we teach arithmetic — meaning the ability to add, subtract, multiply, and divide numbers? This mechanical task has been the purview of I’m not seriously suggesting that we dispense with reading, writing, or arithmetic. But I very seriously suggest that we all understand the basic concepts of the very devices that could reasonably replace the three R’s. In the future I have no doubt that computer literacy will be a requirement of the educated class. Not only do I believe we should start the transition now, I’ll go further and contend that this education should I’ve received some criticism for pushing on the boundaries of childhood education to include studies in computer logic. The most common criticisms have fallen two camps: “Computers are tools, like pens, paper, and printing presses. Whether you write with a typewriter or clay tablet, the act of composition is a mental process. The same rules applies to computers. Whether you’re using your VCR, smartwatch, or laptop, you’re using a computer. Computers are (drumroll please…) computing machines. They don’t even require electronics, and indeed the first Computers of the future may very well be Assuming that computers are even worth learning, why start so young?Are babies capable of understanding computer logic? Well, no and yes. Starting with the belief that computer literacy should be on par with traditional literacy and mathematics, we would be remiss to start anywhere other than the beginning. Children entering elementary school usually have plenty of tacit exposure to words and numbers. They should have a similar introduction to the logic of computers.The downside of kickstarting an educational movement is finding a starting place. Babies made the most sense to me, in part selfishly, because I’ve recently become a dad with a baby (and soon a second) of my own. I care about her and his development, and as a computer scientist am capable of teaching her these concepts myself.Most educated adults are capable of teaching their own children to read and perform simple math, since they themselves know how to do it. However, most adults are not in the computer industry. We need a mechanism to teach adults well enough to, in turn, teach their children. So another aspect of the project is including instruction of these basic computer concepts (Boolean Logic, Binary, and Functions) to non-specialist adults.Even if this first project fails to succeed, I’m convinced that in the coming generation of children must understand at a basic level how these computing machines do what they do. Hopefully, we can increase the population of the first group.Engineer, Author of 

I was never very “good” at school as a kid. Sure, some subjects came more naturally than others, but I never really took the time to refine my understanding of things. As you can probably imagine, attending school as a skinny, pale, shorter-than-average human equated to great amounts of discontent, and, at times, a deep hatred of the mere idea of school. The education I loved came outside the classroom, where I could learn by making mistakes and getting my hands dirty; I used to spend hours taking apart various bits of equipment around the house. My bicycle was once subjected to my curiosity, and proved to be a much bigger task than I was prepared to handle as a seven year-old; it sat disassembled in the back lawn for over a week.My family had very little money for the first half of my life. Sometimes, Mom gets a little sentimental and likes to tell the neighbors about my favorite toy growing up: an old, empty soup can she filled with pebbles. My dad somehow found the time to pursue an advanced education even through our family’s financial hardships. He and I used to spend hours together on the top floors of the University of Minnesota library, and he’d always share with me the newest breakthroughs in engineering innovation, even though I hardly understood a word of what he said. My father never cared for school during his younger years, either — he now holds two Master’s degrees.Education is the driving force behind the ways in which our societies are shaped. Under-developed countries are lifted entirely out of poverty because of smart people working to develop innovative solutions to advance the common good. Developed economies experience new levels of output never before imagined. Technological advances completely change the way we drive our cars, brush our teeth, or even get our prescriptions filled. It’s important that we continue to promote the collective expansion of education throughout our societies, because education is the origin from which any societal advances will ever be made.Education does more than just shape the result of our economies, though — it provides us the freedom to shape the paths toward our own ends. In fact, education is the sole aspect of our lives over which we maintain full control, regardless of the limitations we face elsewhere. Education is the only way in which our virtues can be fostered in to more complete personal attributes; it’s how we come to understand ourselves and how we fit in to the world around us. Most importantly, it’s how we learn to go about learning in the first place.Education doesn’t come in the same size and shape for everybody; to say one needs to be educated isn’t synonymous with attending a four-year university and nabbing some sort of business administration degree. In fact, it’s far from that: to be truly educated is to know how our minds best learn so we’re able to maximize our return on investment when we find a path worth pursuing.For some — like me — that path means attending college, even though I grew up thinking I never would. For others, it means gaining an apprenticeship in one of the trades that helps make our society function. Still others will find their paths lead them to military, nonprofit, or humanitarian work.Regardless of the path that gets traveled, our world is better because that path was traveled at all.We owe everything to education.Software developer/co-founder. I teach people how to program and launch startups.Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

A piece of Ikea furniture will never hold the same value as it’s hand-crafted, one-of-a-kind cousin. And in a lot of ways, you could say the same about school, which tends to be a one size fits all experience. However, when you are the one crafting your own education, it can be far more rewarding, personal and effective.__________________Thinker • Social Entrepreneur • 

I think people should think education is a lifestyle. I know for most of the youngsters who live in metropolis city, like I do – Jakarta, Bandung, etc; we spend almost the entire expenses to catch up with the trend, to look good with the widest acceptance of certain lifestyle in the society. But rarely, they think that to have a constant and proper education is also lifestyle.Education could be as glamor as fashion; we certainly could wear luxury education on our brain. It can’t seen but it shown. Highly educated people are somewhat looks sophisticated as they are able to think long vision, to resolve complicated issue, to create great innovation, and on the top of everything they could change the world. During the critical age of Y and Z generation teens, they tend to spend their time to have fun without learning any good for their future. They take their education easy as they think they have Google in their hands. In the other hand, critics should go to the conventional and boring educational institution. There’s no way we can longer apply the old-fashioned in class learning process for the Y and Z generation; they are dynamics, they are the people who must adapt with constant changing trends for almost the entire of their life. However, slowly but sure, I see that some of the people have shifted their mindset to take education as their lifestyle.An Indonesian famous author, Andrea Hirata, once wrote that to study and learn is not just about proving something or to get some degrees, instead to study and to learn is an appreciation to develop our self and a celebration to take our right to become a better individual day by day.Looking forward to see my home country, Indonesia, to have a better quality and enthusiasm in education for the entire Indonesian society from the western seas of Sabang to the eastern mountainous of Merauke.–This word scratch was written to celebrate Indonesian National Education Day.May 2, 2015With huge optimism,*also publish on intuitive curiosityGurat Tinta Perencana

I was an educator for five years. I taught history and then computer science to middle schoolers, as well as technology integration to fellow teachers. With administrators and other teachers, we introduced new learning standards and objectives, built new curriculum, and learned on the fly how to translate old ways of doing things to the 21st century.In and out of the classroom, much of what we tried failed. Each time, we reassessed and tried again.In the classroom, my colleagues and I tried to deliver well-planned lessons to students. We asked thought-provoking questions and fielded challenging objections from students. We did all this with a view to convincing the kids that we had the content and skills that will benefit them.Outside of class we considered the best practices of colleagues who had been in education for decades, emulating much of it and adapting the rest to a new, student-empowered style of educating. I was also fortunate to collaborate directly with leadership to chart the course of this change. We didn’t know anything more than anyone else; we just got the ball rolling and tried to maintain its pace.Since I left schools, I’ve worked at three startups. Things haven’t really changed.Like before, new strategies often fail. Once again, we keep what worked and then revise what didn’t. Failure isn’t virtuous, but it’s useful, so long as it leads to learning.Instead of lesson plans, my colleagues and I deliver well-planned pitches to potential customers. We ask leading questions, fostering dialogue. We handle considered objections from clients. All of this is done with a view toward our product being most beneficial to the client. Our job is to work with clients to arrive at the best solution for them; the “sage on the stage” model works no better in business than it does in the classroom. In fact, good teaching and good sales look a lot alike.Also similar: everyone is learning on the fly. There are no experts (be skeptical of those who say they are.) At each of these companies, everyone is trying to learn what digital tools and experiences people want and need, and how to build a company that can ship these products now and forever. Silver bullets don’t exist in teaching or business.So, like we did in faculty meetings and PD, we share what’s worked for us. We learn from colleagues’ backgrounds who have been in business for decades, and try to discern what new lessons this week has taught us.Schools that are evolving to meet 21st century demands are approaching their pivots in much the same way as startups handle business every day. I was very lucky to get the training I did in schools: I learned good sales by learning to teach; I learned how to manage and support change by collaborating with colleagues across an organization; and I learned to never stop learning.I do miss teaching. Fortunately, I feel like I never left the classroom.Benstern.co, Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

This is how special education and intervention is typically visualized.…Yeah. I’m confused too.Having taught special education and researched its policies for three years, the nuts and bolts of special education still baffle me. At its core, special education is designed so that What that means in practice, including the rights that students and parents have, the school’s role in providing a program that works for every student, and the district’s financial responsibility to schools, is extremely complex and, in too many cases, results in grave injustices for students.So forget about that pyramid. Here’s my beautiful diagram of nets that simplifies the theory behind special education.Let’s say there are 25 students in a given classroom. The vast majority of students, 80% of the class, or 20 students, get what they need academically in the whole group classroom. Generally, these students are meeting the academic requirements that the teacher, school, and district have set.However, 20% of the class, or 5 students, are not meeting requirements. These students “fall through the gaps” of the whole group classroom. They need a little more. A good classroom teacher weaves a finer net to “catch” these kids.Maybe the student’s behavior requires more motivation, so the teacher creates an incentivized behavior plan. Maybe the student needs small group instruction or extra tutoring. Most students in this group are able to meet academic expectations with the extra time, attention, and planning that the teacher and school provide.Unfortunately, for 5% of the class, or 1.25 students (we’re going to round down to 1 here), this extra just isn’t enough and this student continues to “slip through.” The teacher starts to notice that he or she isn’t responding to the strategies that have worked for the other students. The teacher may also notice gaps in focus, fine motor skills, speech, reading, or behavior that raise a red flag.This student is referred to special education. If a group of experts determines that this student does in fact have a disability, they, in conjunction with the student’s parent(s), develop an Individualized Education Plan (IEP) for the student.Now the student has the most kickass net ever — a special education teacher who uses a wide variety of educational strategies and works in partnership with service providers to meet the student’s specific needs.In a high-functioning school, where all things are going really well, this is how special education typically looks.Universal Design is the idea that things can be made accessible for all people. The structural design on the left, for instance, can be used by both people walking and people using wheelchairs. The picture of the doorknob at the top of the blog post is another classic example of Universal Design. In the 90s, David Rose, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, introduced the concept of Universal Design for Learning (UDL) — providing multiple means of learning, expression, and engagement that cater to all unique student needs. Other great academic minds, such as Thomas Hehir (also of HGSE-fame), have further pushed on what this can look like in actual classrooms.In the language of nets (don’t you love this analogy?), UDL allows us to wonder — Instead of removing students from the whole group setting, which Here’s what that fine net would look like. (Pun intended.)Doesn’t it make sense to dedicate resources to make whole group instruction better so that NO kids fall through the cracks?In this theoretical classroom, students would learn visually, kinesthetically, and orally. They would have multiple ways to show their learning: writing, speaking, drawing, or moving. And there would be multiple teachers providing different levels of instruction, engagement, and access. Basically, the whole group classroom would utilize all the best practices of a special education classroom. Most importantly, all students would feel a sense of belonging, community, and inclusion.Do these schools exist? Yes, but it’s pretty hard to pull off. It is also important to note that there is no one correct way to service students or a best way to implement Universal Design for Learning.Sorry to end on a (thrilling) cliffhanger! My literacy specialist, former teacher, deeply curious human beingEssays about education, peace, and equity

Paulo Freire introduced the concept: “Kinda sad, right? A very industrial model indeed. As if kids were part of a production process. Where the knowledge is introduced in exact fashion, one be one.Paulo grew in poverty and that influenced his critical thinking of the education models. He devoted his life to push the education for those who needed it the most.Freire believed education to be a political act that could not be divorced from pedagogy. Teachers and students must be made aware of the “politics” that surround education. The way students are taught and what they are taught serves a political agenda. As my friend For long as we have a “banking” mindset, our kids will be filled by the values of the present. Each generation will have different “must knows”, that at the time will feel essential. And, by intention or by emergence, these values will influence the society towards a static perspective.Only when we are able to move away from the “banking” model we will be able to regard our kids as complex beings excited to grow. Each one of them with a unique perspective on the world. A perspective crafted from their own experience. Rooted in the present and ready to define and refine its own reality.Thanks to my wise friend, 

She celebrated an anniversary recently. It’s been five years since she taught her first online course. Five years is a short, yet enough time to point out both the advantages and the pain points of what we call e-learning as a method and an ongoing experience. I read her story and started to ponder not only on what it takes to be an online tutor, but also on what it takes for an e-learning software to meet the tutor’s and, subsequently, students’ needs.“I just knew I wanted to be a part of something I felt would benefit those students who — for whatever reason — could not come to a traditional classroom setting. I wanted to help create quality courses for these students that would incorporate the kinds of activity and discussion that typically took place in a classroom-based course.”Due to potentially problematic consequences of competition (which can result in unethical behavior, low cooperation and low collaboration, or in disadvantaging certain player demographics), current gamification designs try to refrain from using this element. Gamification, as it should be, preserves the love of the game and combines it with the pursuit of knowledge and the will of self-and-team improvement.“The whole art of teaching is only the art of awakening the natural curiosity of young minds for the purpose of satisfying it afterwards.”…Storyteller, CoFounder, CoMmunicator 

Frank Underwood is true but it will be nice if we were entitled to a better education.It is pretty certain that if you are a House of Cards fan you have already watched Season 3. I am half way there but the President’s speech from the second episode spoke some truth.If you read gibberish right now go on and watch the clip:You know this is true but do you Most people learn it the hard way at a certain age.It is not our fault. This is how we were told. Follow the many times stepped path and you will find glory and happiness.Have we ever wonder about this Obviously they This is all cool but are Chances are you’ve made you fair share of withdraws and ended up with a result that is at least On the other hand, many people while going through this process end up with a narrow path to follow. I understood this while reading the Yo-landi is a misfit who succeeded because she happened to be given the chance to do what she was good at, at an early age at an artistic environment. Imagine if someone pushed her to a path with an engineering, economics or law degree at the end of the tunnel. Of course we can’t know for sure but my bet is that she would be sad.School is the entrance to the so called path we try to follow. This is where we get direction and explore possibilities for our future.A recent study in Greece pointed out that only 63,3% of teens like school. That’s less than two thirds of students. Satisfaction from school is another issue. Only 57,1% of 13 years olds are satisfied with school and that drops to 48,9% for teens two years older. The rate is falling fast as teens grow.That means half the youth of Greece spend most of their day in an unsatisfying environment. Not because they suck at it or it is bad. It is because it is not enough.This situation is not a thing only in Greece. Let’s note that school is a domain that has not change since or before the crisis and we can assume that it is going like that for many years now.Most educational systems are like that. They are in a state we call legacy. Legacy software in the computer industry is the old software that works in most of the cases as long you do basic stuff. They give no direction and they don’t even try to exploit children abilities but they are ok for a sweep of everything.We’ve seen that progress comes from weirdos and misfits. That means that they don’t fall under the same path we praise for everyone.Today the education system tends to become the bigger misfit because it does not fit to enough people anymore. Even not the ones you call misfits find it boring.Have you heard of MOOCs are trying to solve the education problem. Bill Gates made a If Battushig Myanganbayar aced a circuits and electronics course designed for sophomores at MIT — from his school in Ulan Bator, Mongolia, how he could possibly be interested in watching a guy teach a badly written history book which he would have to learn by heart?Where am I getting…Robots are my friends

L’éducation est l’une de mes priorités, je ne cesserai d’affirmer son importance ni son impact dans une vie. Si étudier est un droit fondamental, ce droit est hélas encore inaccessible pour 72 millions d’enfants à travers le monde.L’École que je souhaite pour notre Gabon et pour laquelle je m’engage fonde son excellence sur la réussite du plus grand nombre, sans laisser pour compte aucun jeune. Elle favorise l’orientation, afin que chaque élève soit acteur de son avenir. Elle encourage la persévérance et accompagne chaque élève dans la réalisation de ses objectifs et de ses rêves.Dans un contexte où le Gabon souhaite entreprendre une transformation de son économie, l’éducation d’excellence et l’encouragement au leadership constituent pour nous un défi et une priorité d’action.A ce titre, ma Fondation s’est engagée depuis 3 ans dans l’attribution de bourses d’excellence pour former de jeunes Gabonais dans les meilleures écoles et universités du monde. L’objectif ? Permettre à ces jeunes de développer leurs compétences et leadership et les mettre ensuite au service de leur pays.La Fondation a également édité le premier Livre des Métiers, véritable outil d’orientation pour aider les jeunes à trouver leur vocation, la bonne filière. A saisir les opportunités.C’est cette passion pour l’éducation qui a animé la création de l’Ecole Internationale Ruban Vert pour permettre à nos enfants d’accéder à une éducation bilingue, aux standards internationaux. Le principe est de faire payer ceux qui ont les moyens pour que les plus défavorisés puissent accéder gratuitement à une éducation de qualité.La réussite en éducation me tient à cœur et passe par une densification de la coopération ainsi que la multiplication des partenariats public-privé. Parce que nous avons besoin d’accompagnement, d’échange, de dialogue, de créativité, je suis au World Innovation Summit for Education à Doha aujourd’hui.Première Dame du Gabon • First Lady of Gabon

Renewed almost without question since establishment in 1958, the Federal Perkins Loan Program — providing loans that aid payment in higher education — was unexpectedly allowed to lapse on September 30, 2015. Perkins is reported as the “Alexander was elected as chair of the Senate Health, Education and Labor committee in January 2015 and immediately That’s why, Alexander continued, at another committee meeting over a year ago he was impressed upon hearing “four witnesses say we only needed two questions to With the Senate defeat, Rep. Mike Bishop (R-MI8), sponsor of the Perkins renewal bill, said in a press release, “A website for tracking bills in the U.S. Congress. See Tracking Congress. Engaging Democracy.

This is a story about sharing knowledge, about education, the story behind “Back in December, I wrote a blog post featuring Combining being a full time student, I started writing some posts here and there, explaining what we were seeing in class in a little bit more detail. The idea was the following: if it takes me 9 hours to almost fully understand roughly 45 slides, why should all students spend 9 hours on the same thing, if the topic can be explained in 30 min. Why not use this time to go over parts of the material that werent clear enough, now that the students have a better general understanding about what’s going on. Why not spend this time learning other stuff? The idea was, in the same way that I can explain to a friend what we learned in class today, I can write some posts covering that material, with more examples, more details, or just a simpler approach.I noticed that this was a pretty good indicator of how well the material had been assimilated (you won’t write/publish something on a subject you know nothing about). It also makes sure that others, readers, classmates, future students, will also understand the material, but faster, either by having it presented differently or in a simpler manner.Taking the time, the commitment and the investment to understand a topic has its challenges, both from a teaching and a learning point of view.Reading, writing, improving, creating pedagogical material considerably diminished those challenges by being cost-effective. Not only you learn, you also teach, you share knowledge, you make an impact, you make a difference. You invest time per week, but you get back knowledge per lifetime.Encouraging the development of pedagogical material - by students, for students - considerably helps getting the understanding, the support and the passing average right on the first try. It doesn’t only increase the rate of passing students, but also the rate of understanding per student.The idea is also that by writing, sharing information and knowledge, developing educational projects, we leave a mark. Sharing knowledge is promoting access to education. Making it free highlights the fact that knowledge is a right, not a consumer good. Platforms such as I hope that this post will inspire some to do the same. I hope that it can motivate others to write and develop educational projects. As a student in software engineering, I would love to contribute to a platform where people can write/share those posts, where people can make education accessible and effortless. Personally, I’ll keep the trend up for courses like algorithm design or parallel programming, and hopefully many others. If you are a student, I strongly encourage you to do the same.If you feel like lending a hand or if you have questions (either on dbms or other stuff), send me a tweet Let’s write about whatever we learn. Let’s teach ourselves and teach others, making education more accessible, more open, broader.Hack education.Adapt it to the Twitter era.Techie, Blogger, Diversity Advocate and A Little Bit More .

Hello and welcome to arthur miller’s the crucible. the show were we perform arthur miller’s the crucible 83 times in 15 minutes. these are the 83 crucibles. you are the fifteen minutes. when you walked into this room you received a piece of garbage. this is garbage that we feed to trash cats out in the alley. we perform these crucibles in a precise, numerical, chronological traditional historically accurate, rational repeatable order. now listen up. the crucibles will begin at a very particular and certain time. and that very particular and certain time is made confidential information kept from you for your own security by your lord and savior: Satan.another thing to know about these crucibles is time is meaningless here. this clock is a symbolic clock it means nothing.its an atomic clock representing the amount of nuclear weapons in the world. we are republicans. we don’t believe in science. this clock truly means nothing. in fifteen minutes we are going to perform a three hour long version of the crucible 83 times in a row. you will not be allowed to leave this theatre until all 83 three of our crucibles are finished. after fifteen minutes a horrible buzzing sound will emit from this meaningless bomb machine. it will continue to ring for the days and weeks it takes to complete all 83 crucibles.some things about these arthur millers’s the crucibleswe didn’t write these 83 crucibles.tennessee williams did. and he hand wrote them 83 times onto old computer paper using only a yellow highlighter. in these crucibles we play large monstrous garish characters outside of our range.for example i am giles corey. i will always be giles corey, a stubborn old puritan man with spunk from 17 century.this is abigail williamsthis is tituba.this will always be reverend hale.and this this is dallas cowboys quarterback tony romo.up in the booth is senator mccarthy.another thing about these crucibles is we perform these crucible inside a refrigerator box in another room which you will not be able to see or hear. now first things first: when an everlasting brilliant and infinite white light envelopes this space, it means the crucible is over and it’s time to quietly observe the next crucible.and walls will turn to cinder bricks.and you’re sitting in a desk in front of a chalkboard and the blinking fluorescent white light will give you a headache.and i am your teacher. and this is your book.you know that there is something wrong here, i know it too, but there is nothing i can do.these are the facts now and you are wrong. and one day in the future, when things change to the way they should be you’ll never be able to forget the crucible. let crucible number one start now.that means right now somewhere a student is sitting at home trying to answer their study questions. what was the civil war about? it was about “states rights to have migrant workers”an apology on that introduction speech i gave. i got a few things wrong. go means one of these plays starts. curtain means the play ends. when you hear the word curtain thats your cue to call out the number of the next play you would like to see. we wrote these plays. they are true. and based on our lives. we don’t play characters we are our ourselves. when it gets dark in here, the play isn’t over it just means its dark.and you’re sitting in a desk in front of a chalkboard and the blinking fluorescent white light will give you a headache.and i am your teacher.and this is your book.and you’re not sure what the answers are anymore.and you’re angry and furious.the damage has been done and you are helpless.Experimental theater company, purveyors of TOO MUCH LIGHT MAKES THE BABY GO BLIND (at 25 years, the longest-running original show in Chicago!)

Leslie Engle Young, our Director of Impact, and I arrived in Laos during the rainy season, just days after torrential monsoon rains ravaged Myanmar, India and Bangladesh; at the same time, the region was in the midst of its worst rice harvest in 30 years, due to a major drought (ironic, considering our landing was the last chance I had to enjoy dry clothing during the trip).After flying between jagged mountain terrain, approaching Luang Prabang above the swollen Mekong River and in thick fog, I was happy to arrive safely on the ground.Over the course of the following week, the answer would reveal itself as I was introduced to this unique country.The first revelation was the Lao people. It’s said that Buddhist monks don’t travel during Lenten rainy season, to avoid accidentally stepping on young plants and insects. Whether it was the constant rain or the gentleness and humility of the Lao people, the image stuck with me throughout the week. I did my best to step gently.The next revelation was the magnificence of mountains, rivers, lush greens and sweeping vistas. Driving for an hour through the Lao countryside is like flipping through a stack of picturesque postcards.Having begun its journey to a modern nation just a half century ago, economic progress has been steady for this country of 7 million. A natural resource extraction driven economy has grown for years at 7% or more, fueling substantial investment in hydropower and road infrastructure, and helping to nearly halve the poverty rate since 1992.Because Laos presents deep educational need, extreme poverty in rural regions, and ethnic and cultural complexities. PoP works in countries with enormous need, great opportunity and tangled implementation issues. Laos is no exception, but there are complications.The Lao government has taken progressive strides to alleviate these difficulties, adding preschools to many communities with the goal of providing three years of free early childhood education beginning at 3 years old.In fact, PoP’s first ever school build, in honor of Adam Braun’s grandmother, is a single classroom preschool here. PoP has partnered with the national and local government to build over 60 schools thus far.Yet, direct government investment in student learning materials, equipment and teacher training is low. Rural families shoulder some of this burden from their subsistence agriculture income. The PoP Laos team, led by co-Directors Lanoy Keosuvan and Ya Laoxayda, is seeking government permissions to provide teacher support, student literacy materials and the clearance to assess student outcomes.Decisions are made deliberately in Laos and the bureaucratic process can test patience. We remain optimistic and know that government concurrence is necessary to achieve our educational mission.In my Stanford MBA program and my work at Bain  Company, I was trained to look for “economies of scale” and “operational efficiencies.” Both are hard to come by in educating the developing world’s children. An indelible impression of my first visits to Laos, Guatemala and Ghana is the uniqueness of the conditions we face from country to country.On school builds, the more straightforward phase of PoP’s educational impact, we adapt blueprints for local site conditions and source available construction materials. Our partnerships take on a local flavor as well, with varying levels of government oversight during construction and forms of community input. And, post-build programming, from WASH to literacy, must be aligned with national curricula and the appetite for assistance.The investments we make in national, district and community relationships, while “inefficient” in that they often take time to develop, will be potent in the long view. I see a day soon where even the most remote rural community is technology enabled, allowing us to offer a magic formula for global education: locally customized, globally efficient, economical, high-quality education.On the flight to Bangkok, I marveled at the recent PoP is investing in relationship intensive solutions now, building a permission pathway for broadband powered solutions in the future.Observations, thoughts and musings about Pencils of Promise and the impact of global education in the developing world.

As the end of the school year approaches, in my Humanities class we are all stressed to write a 2500 word essay on a topic of our choice. I am very passionate about Human Rights, and social justice, and I knew that I wanted my essay to be a topic on a human rights issue. As a member of MUN, I once wrote a resolution on Child Marriage issues for one of my conferences. I remembered how interesting the topic was, and decided to write my essay on that.Child Marriage is a serious issue that is still currently happening all over the world. Each year there are 15 million girls who are forced to marry an older man, simply because they come from poverty stricken families, where the only way they can recieve money is by getting married. A serious factor regarding child marriage, is the lack of education. Many girls have no other choice than to get married, because they have received little to no education as children. Girls who are able to receive an education, learn about their rights as children and derive to stay away from marriage, and focus on their own lives as teenagers.I am still in the process of research, but one thing that I already realized from this serious topic, is how much an education can mean. Girls who are getting married at an age around myself, are only wishing to receive an education, while I complain about school and how much work it is, and how I will never use the skills of graphing quadratic equations in my future. It made me realize how selfish I am, and that there are plenty of girls out there who are dreaming to learn what I am complaining about. The girls who are being forced to marry, certainly did not choose that life. They deserve an education just as much as I do.I wish there was an immediate way to end child marriage, and the main cause of it : poverty. Girls who are being forced to get married deserve to learn. Girls who have unfortunately already gotten married deserve to learn. We should never take education for granted. There are millions of girls out there who are wishing to receive one themselves. We cannot complain at all. Only they are allowed to.part of where I’m going, is knowing where I’m coming fromAuthentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

At the age of seven I started learning how to code.Back then I wasn’t fortunate enough to be surrounded by all the incredible organisations that now exist to help teach young people how to code. My parents and peers had no idea what ‘code’ even meant, let alone how to use it to build websites, applications or games.I remember going into my primary school, asking how to build my own websites from scratch. One lunchtime I ventured out to our ICT room (where you’re supposedly taught how to use and shape the future of technology) and popped the question. My teacher screamed at me — so violently that it made me cry — and said I should stop wasting my time and go outside to play with the other kids.As any child will know, when they’re told not to do something they’ll often want to do it even more. So, using the ridiculously large power of the Internet — I did. There was a small number of fantastic resources out there to help me learn by myself: YouTube, W3 Schools, SDK documentation then a few years’ later came the likes of Codecademy.So that was then, when I was seven. What’s really interesting now though is that over 2 billion are online and schemes like Although I was personally motivated to start ‘self learning’ at a young age, sadly most aren’t. In fact, I bet kids in the slums of Uganda are more motivated than the vast majority of kids who go through our education systems. They know what it’s like to hit rock bottom, yet they’re always smiling and optimistic because they know that that’s all they can do. They haven’t got the comfort of massive loans, paid healthcare, job security (ha, we think we’ve got it bad) — even a mother, father or roof over their head.I truly believe that if these kids could have access to the Internet, the world would be a much better place. It should be a human right for everybody to stay connected through the Internet, which will ultimately improve the pace and quality of learning for all of us. It’s not just the future of education, it’s the future — period.Soon we’re going to be experiencing much more individualised learning, tailored to our specific needs and interests. Parents and teachers should be asking kids from a very early age — One of the most fascinating discoveries I have made over the past couple of years is how if you change the environment students are working in, it can drastically change their mindsets. When I founded My best advice to young people with a passion, talent or idea, wanting to take it to the next level, is to started 

The reason that our educational system squashes creativity is simply because administrators and teachers are not always aware of when and why to promote right-brain thinking versus left-brain thinking. If both hemispheres were valued equally, we would grow up honoring and practicing, on a conscious basis, our natural inclination to experiment, play, embrace mistakes, and otherwise exercise the very important activities that lead to creative problem solving. Read Daniel Pink’s “A Whole New Mind” to explore those concepts further.

As In the United Kingdom, which recently restructured its national curriculum The growing use of 3D printers and What are the common themes within this change? Are these just coincidences? Are they perhaps the result of just a few visionaries? No, the reality is that these types of changes are the result of government strategies based on the understanding that education is essential. Measures of this type are medium-term investments, affecting entire generations, in the more competitive economies, in cutting-edge areas of the economy that can create value. Rather than relying on low wages or services, we’re talking here about a much more sustainable approach to planning an economy, based on developing skills that will be more and more important in the coming years.The simple fact of the matter is that Faced with such a radical and important change as this, it will take policies at national level, within the education system, to meet the challenges of the future. Many other countries are creating new educational spaces to experiment with new approaches to learning. Education, at all levels, is now not only fast becoming outdated, but positively obsolete. With a few notable exceptions, Spain seems locked in education reforms that sadly have nothing to do with increasing access to technology.Spain is sorely lacking leadership in this area, and we will pay for our failure to adapt for a number of generations. As a country, we need to address this issue quickly, but for the moment, there seems to chance of that happening.Professor at IE Business School and blogger at enriquedans.comOn the effect of technology on people, companies and the society as a whole. (Writing in Spanish at enriquedans.com since 2003)

By: The other day, one of my friends and colleagues at Ryerson University, in a quest to define the real value of Student Affairs, asked me, “What would have changed for you as a student if the department of Student Affairs never existed?” After thinking for a second, I blurted out:“Nothing.”He gave me a weird look and I realized that my response may have come across as completely devaluing everything we do with one word. That was not the case. Observing his reaction, I went on to explain what I really meant and what I perceive to be the role of Student Affairs in higher education. I will now tell you what I told him…I have worked in the department of For those who don’t know, Student Affairs is a network of services and support systems for students at higher education institutions. We deal mainly with what happens outside of the classroom. At Ryerson, Student Affairs consists of: Student Learning Support, Student Life, Health  Wellness, Housing  Residence Life and the Career Centre. Those are staples you’ve probably always known existed at colleges and universities, but perhaps didn’t know all fit under one category: Student Affairs.These sub-departments give students a place to live, access to psychologists, support with finding jobs, tutoring and mentoring, Orientation and As a student, I did not make use of any of these services. I didn’t need to. Throughout school, I was lucky that my learning style was very aligned with that of traditional education. My family was supportive and just privileged enough to allow me to focus on my academics. I understood from a young age that getting 90s wasn’t enough. I knew I had to be “involved”, so I got involved… a lot. I have always been a high-performing, highly involved student. Let me wrap up what sounds like a bunch of navel-gazing with the point. Because school was easy for me, there were many parts of Student Affairs I thought I didn’t need.I didn’t need math or writing support; I did not have accessibility needs; I didn’t attend my Orientation because I was working; I’ve thankfully not had any severe mental health issues; I didn’t live on residence and I’ve never had trouble with finding or maintaining desirable employment. There was no perceived need for me. Without Student Affairs, I would still have a 4.0 GPA and I still would have gotten involved.So how, after all of that, did I end up making Student Affairs part of my life and career?My interaction with Student Affairs started the summer coming out of my first year. I, like many students, didn’t know what Student Affairs was. Simply thinking about how I would continue paying tuition, I was just looking for employment in my field of study. I came across the Marketing and Multimedia positions for the central orientation team. One After that summer, I stayed on with So you see, I didn’t end up in Student Affairs because I needed their explicit service offerings. I just needed to pay tuition. That being said, I can honestly say Working alongside the people and within the values of Ryerson Student Affairs has legitimately made me a better person. I’m hyperaware of equity, diversity and inclusion (EDI); I’m sensitive to the needs of others though they may not be my own needs; I collaborate with people and teams because I appreciate what others have to offer that I may not be able to; I appreciate everyone’s unique stories; I can effectively lead a team; I know a ton about social media; I can assessHere I am now, just having graduated from the I. AM. FORTUNATE.So, now that I have explained my story and am starting my own career in Student Affairs, let me tie this all together by explaining what I see as the role of student affairs in higher education.The fact that I have always understood that the format of traditional education does not accommodate all types of learners, which is really just all types of Are you that student who suffers from anxiety? Are you that student who doesn’t know how to get involved? Are you like me, a first generation student who never really had family to “show you the ropes”. Are you a student who thought you were done with tough essay writing when you signed up to be an engineer, but forgot about electives? I’ve heard the sentiment before: “but that stuff won’t be available in the real world (whatever that is)”. My counter is, well, no. The company you work at may not cater to your learning needs, however we’re not trying to put a bandaids on longterm issues. Really, we are trying to teach skills that students can apply for the rest of their lives. We don’t make that oneWhat does student affairs do? Like every other department in the university, Needless to say, I am proud to start my career here and am excited to make some amazing things happen!Co-Founder Thoughts on startups, education and making ideas happen.

By Pamela KondéWhen Congress passed “No Child Left Behind” (NCLB) education reform legislation in 2001, it relied on three principles: (1) more resources, (2) accountability, and (3) consequences. NCLB forced schools to rethink their expectations and strategies. It enabled reforms directed toward ensuring more effective teachers. It encouraged But NCLB’s framework relied too heavily on the third principle of consequences — that competition, parent choice, and forced reorganization or closure of neighborhood schools would motivate educational institutions to perform more effectively. Aimed largely at “failing schools” and “ineffective teachers,” but without enough discussion of other contributing factors, NCLB’s remedies were insufficient to transform the broader educational system. As an example, more than 1,200 high schools, serving more than 1.1 million students, still fail to graduate one-third or more of their students each year, according to the Education reform is on the front burner again, as Congress debates the Here are the four ingredients to success:Education reformers are right to focus primarily on what occurs inside the classroom, by developing appropriate assessments and scaling up classroom and teaching innovations. Charter models like Nonetheless, the least experienced teachers are still teaching in the schools that need the most experienced teachers, and turnover is too high. We cannot just will experienced teachers to teach in more challenging schools.One promising option for recruiting and maintaining the best teachers is to provide them with the professionalism they deserve, as groups such as Third Way have Federal, state, and local remedies should be focused on efforts that help To ensure school readiness, Once children start kindergarten, schools should utilize annual assessments to help individual students in need of remediation. Academic support and tutoring can allow students to catch up to grade level and reengage with regular classroom instruction. The most positive gains are found with tutor training, formal time commitments, structured sessions, careful monitoring, and close relationships between classroom instruction, curriculum and tutoring services. Congress should also invest in Finally, Strong parent-teacher relationships are indispensable to student success. According to Many effective models can effectively increase parent engagement, such as intensive An effective school-age model identified by the Local government and community leaders play a critical role in school reform. The entire community must share and promote the high expectations of 21stCentury learning, achievement, and graduation for its children. College, technical advancement, and/or career must be the new normal, as a path to full-time employment with liveable wages.Neighborhood schools, for example, should become pivotal community institutions, not threatened with their closure. The U.S. Department of Education considers “As part of these higher expectations, community leaders should emphasize the importance of high school graduation. Finally, community leaders should promote a culture where parenthood occurs only when young people are ready and, at minimum, Fifty years after Congress first passed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, we have a far better sense of what works to achieve true education reform. It’s time to put that knowledge to use with a comprehensive approach.Next generation policy ideas, sponsored by the Washington Monthly. Editor: Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

When I was in high school, I struggled with math — considerably. I hated it all; algebra, geometry, calculus. To my parents, who emigrated to the United States from Vietnam in 1980 and got their degrees from Wentworth Institute of Technology, this was baffling. Math, like love, was a universal language. How could it not come naturally? Just memorize the formulas, they said.At Holy Cross, I failed an exam for the first and only time in my entire life. In Statistics. I couldn’t wrap my head around these theoretical concepts: normal distribution, standard deviation, and t-tests; not to mention, I found the textbook examples boring, irrelevant and, sometimes, even more confusing than the lessons themselves. It would be years before I finally saw the practical value of using statistics, when I became an Analyst at In an Context, in his example, refers to the broader circumstances that enrich one’s understanding of content. The details that can transform meaning and, in my case, accelerate the transmission of knowledge. I would argue that it’s an unequivocally powerful and necessary learning tool that is ineffectively delivered alongside content in today’s classrooms.Take this The word problem itself does an excellent job providing the information needed (R=C) and, as such, does not require you to understand context whatsoever to be able to solve the problem. How, then, are students who have been conditioned to isolate and solve for content, ever expected to develop the skills necessary to solve for context?The problem with our existing education model, Brown seems to imply, is that it institutionalizes that the right standard for measuring intelligence is one’s ability to learn content primarily in a classroom setting. He suggests that we refocus that emphasis to one on connected learning instead.Enabled by the Digital Age, it’s essentially a model that acknowledges how the technological advancements of the 21st Century have shaped the way students can and do learn today. Students are supplementing their education with free online resources offered by groups like I’m interested in this idea of Connected Learning because I am interested in tackling how to disrupt education on an institutional level. I want to figure out how to successfully leverage the digitization and democratization of information, and I want classrooms and workplaces to accommodate and appreciate different learning processes and styles. Most importantly, I want education to be considered a universal right.Solving the grand challenges of humanity? Sounds like we need a revolution, and fast.Customer Success Manager 

Providing an authentic audience can be a game changer, but it can also be overwhelming. Truth be told, it is much, much easier to resort to the Let’s follow the life of two school assignments:The first: I’ll call it When students turn in “I’ll put those in tonight!”The teacher returns to his desk, looks over The second: I’ll call it the ‘The answer should be clear, assignment #2 — ‘Providing an authentic audience can be a game changer, but it can also be overwhelming. Truth be told, it is much, much easier to resort to the This last year, I recommitted myself to providing an authentic audience for my students’ work. Whether it was posting student work through Sometimes we forget how powerful the web actually is. We get caught using devices to simply consume information. Google this. YouTube that. The Web is more than a place for consumption, it provides many rich platforms for creating. Students are more than capable of creating the Internet they absorb. The Web opens up a worldwide audience for students. Students can At first glance this seems like Kids love movies. Kids love making movies. Kids are good at making movies. If a project or assignment calls for making a movie, why not hold a film festival? A couple years ago, my students created The great thing about live video streams is you can control access to who sees them. You can create a closed I have heard some people complain peers and other students do no constitute an authentic audience. I beg to differ. Students really enjoy interacting with, and sharing their work, with other students. It is a point of pride to share a project with younger or older students. It is also motivating to feel like an expert. Often times, it proves mastery of a concept because students must adapt their work to different audiences. Making children’s books, filming videos, or explaining complex topics in simple terms are ways to build projects to connect with other students. You can also use web tools like Depending on the project or assignment, students can build campaigns to advocate for a change or bring awareness to an issue. Creating a campaign and delivering it to an authentic audience is easier than ever. Students can create a petition on There are also many things the traditional science fair does right. One of which is the opportunity to showcase work to friends, grandparents, parents, community members, and local stakeholders. Set up student work for a day or night and have students explain it to attendees. Students can present findings with the typical trifold, or share posters, PowerPoints, animations, videos, and other creations. It doesn’t take much added work to have students design an invitation for community members. You can also invite local television, newspaper, or public radio to cover the event.Hold a day where students need to pitch their projects, ideas, or plans to local leaders. Students love When I was a kid, my school put together a recipe book every year. Each family submitted a favorite recipe and they were compiled into a spiral book. The recipe books were sold as a fundraiser. Although I never directly produced parts of the book, I was excited to see my family’s name and recipe in the book. It was fun to see what other families submitted, and I felt that I was an integral part of the book. It was personal and something physical I could go back to. Long story aside, it is possible, and fairly easy, to create books today. How powerful would it be for students to see their work published? Design competitions. Robot competitions. Writing competitions. Media competitions. Video competitions. There are no shortage of competitions to enter. While I am not generally a fan of competitions (I want students to create their own meaning and value rather than a third party), they can drive interest and structure.Whatever the way, giving students an opportunity to showcase their ideas, projects, or assignments to an authentic audience is empowering to all involved. Students rise to the occasion, teachers push their comfort zone, and the outside community is impressed. A well crafted authentic audience is certainly a mark of 21st century learning and drives students to see a relevancy that is often lacking in school. Like everything else, start small. If that doesn’t work, dive right in ☺At BeardedTeacher — CA to SC | MS Teacher | PhD Student Education writing on all things related to PBL. Share your thoughts and ideas about PBL, and similar approaches to teaching and learning.

Talk of “fixing” higher education continues to take place within the same framework. No one wants to even talk about if that framework is appropriate or not. It goes unquestioned. The framework is vocational. Education has become vocational. The idea that one learns in order to begin a career has always existed through apprenticeships and technical programs. But the notion that ALL education must serve future career goals is the problem, and it is distinctly a contemporary post-war (WW2) phenomenon.Fix that way of thinking and maybe the education bubble will be deflated before it bursts. But I have doubts that America can do that. We are far too infatuated with money-making schemes to care about what something’s optimal purposes are for. All things must have every penny twisted and wrung out of them until they are “worthless”.And this sort of view is distinctly American, a view dating back to the Founding Fathers. You want a revolution? We’d have to start there. Anything else is merely figuring out a new way to twist the rag and pinch a few more pennies.

In order to possess a If getting great grades helps lead to college and a more impressive application or resume, then why would a student High school is waking up extremely early to spend most of your day in a building. If you care about your reputation and what others think about you, which you most likely do as a high school student, a big part of you is going to spend time trying to make others like you. In class, the teachers “shove a whole lot of useless information down your throat.” This is what many students say when they describe learning in high school. The red flag should be raised at that. If students think the information is useless, they are not going to care about learning it; however, since they need good grades for college, they’re going to memorize the material.Learning is not the same thing and it’s not done often in at least high school. Learning is discovering things you never knew before. Learning is gaining knowledge to better understand the world around you. Learning is traveling to places you have never been to before. Learning is making mistakes and changing because of them. Learning is reading a great book. Learning is not memorizing these twenty vocab words or key terms for Friday.So the question is: should the education system change? If so, how exactly should it change? Should the students take more responsibility and become more proactive in securing their own quality education by reading each chapter and seeking extra help when needed? Should teachers change the way they teach the material so that the primary objective is for each student to learn and understand it and be able to relate its importance to other ideas or concepts? There are many opinions and ideas for this argument, yet it is an important argument worth discussing. If you have an opinion yourself, please feel free to share!Living as an English major one day at a timeA collection of awesome stories about education on Medium.com

Latinos are America’s largest, fastest growing — and perhaps most geographically concentrated — group.According to the Census Bureau, While some “The most striking correlations are on earnings,” says the study’s lead author Justin Steil, a legal research fellow at the Furman Center. For example, Steil says, Latinos living in the nation’s most segregated city — Los Angeles — earn 17 percent less in comparison to whites than Latinos living in the somewhat less segregated Las Vegas.Latinos living in Los Angeles are also 5.4 percent less likely to graduate from high school than Latinos living in Las Vegas and are 10.8 percent less likely to finish college in comparison to whites. And among younger Latinos ages 25 to 30, living in Los Angeles is associated with a 4.6 percentage increase in the likelihood of “disconnection” — neither working nor in school.The study also finds that the negative effects associated with segregation among Latino communities is in some instances worse than the negative impacts associated with segregation in African-American communities.For instance, while the difference in black-white segregation rates between less-segregated Phoenix and highly-segregated New Orleans is about the same as the difference in Latino-white segregation rates between Las Vegas and Los Angeles, there’s a smaller comparative drop in high school graduation rates — 2.4 percent versus 5.4 percent. Similarly, the likelihood of single motherhood is comparatively lower for African-American women living in New Orleans than for Latina women living in Los Angeles.For both African-American and Latino communities, however, the same negative forces are in play when segregation is greater. “The quality of life in a neighborhood is profoundly shaped by the availability and the quality of public services that are delivered, from schooling to public safety to sanitation,” write Steil and his colleagues, Jorge De la Roca and Ingrid Gould Ellen.Highly segregated communities, for example, may have higher rates of violence, unequal access to crucial governmental services, poorer-performing schools and lower rates of “institutional density” — meaning fewer banks and high-quality grocery stores, as well as fewer community organizations, childcare centers and other resources that can help connect people to jobs and other opportunities. Segregated communities may also suffer deficits in human capital — such as college-educated adults who can mentor children and serve as role models. While there’s some evidence that the Latino population is dispersing across the country as it grows, other evidence indicates that Latino segregation is worsening. Steil and his colleagues find, for example, that average levels of Latino isolation — e.g., the likelihood that Latinos live in neighborhoods with other Latinos — now matches that of African-Americans.Other research finds that Latino segregation is particularly acute in public schools. For example, a 2014 Earlier this month, the Obama Administration “These are important tools for addressing continuing levels of housing segregation and trying to address the policies that contribute to that segregation,” says NYU researcher Steil.These efforts, however, are just part of the solutions necessary to combat segregation and its damaging impacts. Steil’s research implies that better quality schools, improvements in college readiness and affordability, and better access to promising workforce development initiatives, such as apprenticeships, are equally important.By Next generation policy ideas, sponsored by the Washington Monthly. Editor: Authentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

A reflectional piece on my time with education.I am approaching the end of my university degree in my design program, the School of Interactive Arts  Technology, and there are many profound feelings about this accomplishment . Amidst these thoughts, one stands out clear to me : I am glad that I went through this university program. However that is a recent thought, as I used to think that this school wasted more time than it saved. Much of what I know about User Experience Design and Interaction Design were learnt from other passionate professionals in the industry, whether it be from conferences, online articles or working alongside them. So if I grew from those experiences, would I not be stronger if I focused on those on industry resources with less time in school? Those are thoughts of the past, and I do not feel that way anymore. I wrote this to explain why.The other day I encountered a proclaimed ‘self-taught’ designer. A mutual friend saw both of us and said “He’s a designer, you’re a designer. So talk!”. Intrigued, I asked him more about what he did and how he got there. To summarize my disappointment, he simply said “Oh I’m a website designer, I make websites look good. I learned in on the side while studying business”. This starkly contrasts with the peers I know and work with, who introduce themselves as Interaction or User Experience designers. Now it is not the title that mattered, but it was the values behind the design process of carrying that title. The peers I know dive deeply into the whys of design, exploration of personas, and deep research into the interactions among many other elements. This ‘designer’ works off of style first, and did not engage in the power that a user-centric design thinking model offered. I felt sorry for this self-taught designer, as I may have been the same without design education. He simply did not know what he was missing, and I had peers and teachers to guide me along the way.Of course, not all design leads the world to a better place, it is just a little notion I try to live by. So naturally it fits into my definition of design, and I believe everyone has their own twist to what design is. It is only with my time with the school and my beloved peers that I was able to find the first step to my own definition. So absolutely no regrets at all in that decision.A collection of awesome stories about education on Medium.com

Every 12 seconds, a student in the United States drops out of school. What’s more alarming is that 12.6% of 1.3 million college graduates are unemployed. It’s no wonder some of the greatest thought leaders of our time are demanding an education reform.But first, we need to understand the shortcomings of our current education system. Traditional education moves in a linear path. We were told that if we get good grades in school, get a degree, we would get a job. However, this type of philosophy was conceived during the Industrial Revolution when the economic imperative at the time was that we needed assembly-line workers. Today, it becomes the ultimate filter bubble for our generation.What we didn’t know back then is that the various regions of our brain develop at different rates in different people, meaning there are hundreds or even thousands of ways of how we learn. So why do we still educate our children in classrooms and ship them out into the workforce in batches?What I am trying to say here isn’t to reform our current education system; traditional education has its advantages- for specific types of people. What I am proposing here is we should support more choices in education. Instead of telling our children that they have to go to a university and get a degree, why not try to understand how they learn first and provide them with the best type of education that is going to maximize their potential. This change in paradigm will help us democratize learning and offer education that is far more open and free than ever before.This is why I admire the work of Geoff Mulgan, who came up with the idea of With the rise of open and progressive education models like Studio Schools, Singularity University, General Assembly, Launch Academy, developer bootcamps, specialized schools, or even accelerators and incubators, the future of education is certainly moving towards the right direction. But the biggest question we should ask ourselves is,“Should we absorb whatever happens to be the prevailing dogma of our time or take a leap and support alternative education to better prepare the next generation for the future?”Let’s continue this discussion on twitter! Follow me at Co-founder and Chief Strategy Officer 

Alongside the overflow of factual information being provided discussing the many health and economic benefits of legalized medical marijuana, there is still a powerful negative stigma attached. This poor image is a result of the lack of real education that is being offered to non-users of the plant or those without any invested interest.If you are not a medical or recreational user or you have no business interest in the cannabis industry, you are not spending your time learning about the health and economic impact offered by legalization. Why would you?Far too many cannabis companies, pseudo investors, and advisors are focusing all of their time, money and communication efforts strictly towards those who are already part of their community. This audience is and will continue to support this mission-so why is there so much emphasis on this group? It is time that we, as industry marketers, assist in creating new messages and invite educational conversations with those who can help, but are never asked.We assume that these highly influential groups that are being ignored oppose the legalization simply because they are not “openly” connecting or spending their days seeking information. They have opinions and many are not what you think, which is why we need to invite their opinions and/or oppositions and educate.Every viable industry recognizes the need to educate mass audiences who may benefit from its products, services and overall need in the marketplace. This poses true for the cannabis industry, but outreach is limited to a very small audience, which we call the cannabis cultural circle. This circle is mastering the skills to inform, but only within this elite circle, which stifles the industry’s ability to grow support.There are several supporting groups who will truly benefit from the legalization of cannabis, but are left out of the conversation and need to be heavily recruited. Such groups include:This rapidly growing demographic consists of 40 million Americans whose average yearly spending on healthcare accounts for close to 18% of their income. Let’s not forget that this highly vocal audience may not spend their time online searching the cannabis culture, but they do get out and vote. They are also credited for supporting marijuana usage long before the digital era and did so without the use of the internet. We cannot count them out as supporters, but we have to reach them, educate, and ask for their support.This powerful group consists of 19.6 million brave U.S. citizens who fought hard for something they believe in, which is our freedom. Although many veterans are openly supportive in the legalization of medical marijuana, they are not asked enough to show their support.Medicinal marijuana has been proven to assist in countless medical ailments that plague our great vets and every one of them should have the right to anything that heals them. If we show them some respect they will fight for this, but we need to invite them into the cannabis cultural circle.There are currently 850,000 licensed medical physicians in the United States today. Such a small number compared to the amount of care needed on a daily basis. Medical research is mostly funded by the pharma companies who have invested interest and physicians are expected to promote the drugs related to their findings. Educating physicians directly and following the proven methods used by pharma companies to promote to physicians could prove very effective. Cannabis leaders need field representatives to work directly with the medical community.There are currently 2.2 million farms across the United States. Many of which continue to struggle due to the less than 1% of the U.S budget being allotted towards their efforts. Gaining the support of all farming communities and allowing them to grow will rapidly impact the current .16 cents on a dollar that our farmers earn.Isn’t their hard work worth more than that? Of course it is and so is their support. They have mastered the art of growing and they feed our families every day. There is no doubt these experts can help grow this industry one way or another.In closing, opposition to the legalization of cannabis is a result of poorly targeted communication and lack of information being provided to those who are not actively seeking information. The cannabis cultural circle is a tremendous show of unity and revolutionary excellence, but to be truly successful it needs to be less exclusive and more inviting.Thanks for reading! If you know someone that would benefit from reading this article, pass it on to them. It might give them the push they need. Partner at Kronic Media | Owner PGH Marketing  Florida Sun Media | IMC Expert | Business Consultant | Marketing Professor | Life Long Entrepreneur

If Children learn more before they attend kindergarten, they will earn more years later in the workforce.By the time a child born into a low-income household turns 3, they’ve heard 30 million fewer words than a child from a well-off family. When that same child enters school, they’re already behind their higher-income peers.Study after study demonstrates that high-quality prekindergarten not only can help close that gap but also can provide lasting benefits. In the short term, students enter school more prepared and ready for elementary school. Research even shows that high-quality early learning can help double a child’s cognitive development.In the long term, children are less likely to be held back in school, require remedial or special education, engage in criminal activity and utilize the social safety net later in life. They are more likely to graduate from high school and attend college, lead healthier, more productive lives, and have higher earnings as adults.Despite the clear benefits, for thousands of children from low- to moderate-income families in Southeastern Pennsylvania and throughout the commonwealth, access to high-quality early learning is simply not an option. According the National Institute of Early Education Research, only four of every 10 4-year-olds in America are enrolled in public prekindergarten, and almost half of all children served attend programs that were not considered high-quality.That is why, as the Senate considers the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, I have introduced the Strong Start for America’s Children Act as an amendment. My legislation would ensure that more than 3 million children in our nation would have access to high-quality early learning, including 93,000 Pennsylvanians. The amendment creates a federal-state partnership to provide access to high-quality public prekindergarten for low- and moderate-income families across the nation. This means that a family of four, earning up to $48,500 a year, would have this opportunity for their children.These programs are locally driven. They must have qualified teachers, rigorous health and safety standards, small class sizes, and age-appropriate and evidence-based instruction. They also must provide comprehensive services for children.To responsibly and fully pay for these vital investments, my legislation closes a loophole in our corporate tax code, making it more difficult for American companies to reincorporate overseas for the purpose of lowering their tax bills.The returns on investment in high-quality early learning are substantial — as high as $17 for every $1 spent. This return on investment will help our kids succeed and help our economy. We can spend upwards of $40,000 a year per person on incarceration and thousands of dollars on drug treatment and special education, or we can spend on average $9,000 a year on high-quality early learning and give children the good start they deserve. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.In describing her son’s experience in public prekindergarten in Montgomery County, one parent wrote: “[This] program has helped my son tremendously! He came into the program shy and with very little verbal communication. He now talks nonstop and loves learning!”Let’s make sure more kids and families have access to that same strong start in life.In the decades to come, the strength of our economy in Pennsylvania and across the nation depends on the vitality of our future workforce. If our children learn more now, they will earn more later. That means higher wages and more economic security across our commonwealth and our country.Representing the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

General education can be tremendously enhanced by this approach. That’s the stuff that every student at a college or university level has to know — basic math, basic civics, basic economics, basic psychology. At that level, these technologies are unbelievably powerful. You could be a genius at physics, but getting a C because English is your second language, and the system could tell your professor: this is your smartest student, he absorbs the physics concepts faster, retains them longer, and has the deepest level of proficiency.This is important. Our system of higher education, for all its successes, has failed at scale, diversity and, thus, democracy. In order to succeed, we need more geniuses like Jose. His innovations have helped us produce twice the number of graduates, with far greater diversity, and four times the level of research, with a faculty of exactly the same size.President of Arizona State University and             co-author of the new book, Designing the New American University

Out of 64 countries, America’s education system has earned a solid 35th place in the world in math and 27th in science (Consider: what’s the point of education in the first place? Personal edification? A good way to spend time 8-3 on weekdays? More likely, its goal is to set up future generations for prosperous futures and happy lives.One big part of that is finding a job that pays the bills. However, the education system is still stuck preparing students for Industrial Age factory jobs. Schools still maintain the same models of the mid-1800s, designed to prepare students to be compliant assembly line workers, when today, the demand is for creative thinkers who can solve the problems of the future. While the world has changed, schools have remained stagnant. The demand no longer matches the supply.Forbes recently interviewed hundreds of companies to find the top qualities that companies are looking for in future hires. What they found was not the ability to do quick mental math or impressive rote memorization, but creativity. Among the other high-ranking skills were adaptability, ability to work on a team, social intelligence, and good communication. So what do all of these traits have in common? They can be learned through design education.Design thinking teaches the modern age skills that students need to succeed. Success today relies on a new way of thinking, and that’s exactly what design thinking can teach:Design education empowers students to reach their full potential in creativity, self-efficacy, and collaboration. Schools should be there to prepare students for the outside world, but currently, they’re just limiting the scope of learning to rote memorization. No wonder students are getting lost in the cracks of boredom and unapplicable facts. Our students need to be trained to succeed in the future, and currently, schools are doing a paltry job at that. Perhaps design education is the answer.This is a collection for articles about education.

The age of the non-entrepreneur and the non-artist is dead.Our generation can no longer afford the luxury of such distinctions. The world is becoming an increasingly smaller space for those who allow themselves to be defined as uncreative or “not-in-charge.” It is now a create or die world.In truth, it has always been a create or die world. But the faster moving pace of today’s society is unmasking more quickly than ever before the illusion of security as a passively experienced phenomenon.It’s more difficult than it’s ever been to sell ourselves and others on the myth that everything will be okay if we just follow instructions, do what we’re told, The only way to prepare for the future is by accepting Are we educating ourselves and others towards this end?I gave a short talk about this topic at the most recent Voice  Exit seminar. If you’d like to watch, you can view it here.T.K. Coleman is the co-founder and Education Director for Education Director/Founding Team Member at Where unconventional paths in entrepreneurship, personal development, and education meet.

As another semester winds down for mw, I again realize something pretty awesome about my educational experience. Maybe it’s nothing new to you, but it continues to move me, inspire me, and shift my perspective about how education is delivered.I teach college level general psychology and developmental psychology as well as first year experience (F.Y.E = introduction to college life, resources, etc.). I actually make F.Y.E. more about self-discovery and self-knowledge. My point is, in all my classes, I assign nothing but writing assignments. One such assignment is for the student to share their thoughts about the semester, what they liked/hated, what they thought/think about psychology/F.Y.E., what they learned about themselves, what they they need to work on, what I need to work on, what they want to do with their lives.It never fails, but the papers/presentations always move me to tears. For the most part (no matter their academic standing in class), I hear stories of personal responsibility, curiosity, excitement to get with life bit more, to be kinder, and most beautiful for some, feeling valued. I love it!I find the more I can give my attention not just to the student’s education but also their lives, the more interactive class time is, the more insightful the assignments are, the more mutual respect earned, and more learning happens.That might not sound like a new idea, but I’m going to try to do more of it. I hope I can be a person who helps a student live their unique story out loud.social change enthusiast / psychology instructor / workplace culture change facilitator / public speaker / blogger/vloggerAuthentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

Higher education and higher education communities like college are not dead.As you have learned by now, college is not a must to start a business. There are people who own successful businesses and have not finished high-school. They learned by experience what you have learned in class (and in life).That goes both ways. The fact that someone finishes college does not mean he/she is entitled to a great job.Education is actually slowly but steadily evolving. More and more companies are getting into that game and also students demand it. This evolution though is slow for the better I believe. Imagine if a whole system that involves students, proffessors, staff, companies and governments changed every year. There would be chaos. It is better to change small stuff in a slow and reliable manner than to jump to the newer trend all the time. The same happens with law by the way.There is actually a say:Now that we got that out of the way, let’s talk about what you get from college.It is magical to learn from your own mistakes. However it is very time and money consuming. Imagine someone who makes carriages. Does he learn from someone how to make something simple like wheels or he tries by himself to start and invent the wheel from scratch?The core of your trade remains the same. In college you learn the absolute core and build on top of it.College lets you learn things in depth if you study hard and learning things in depth is invaluable.Keep in mind that there are people getting second and third degrees to learn things in depth and not just to put them on their resume.Take for example This gave him the advantage in many ways.You probably wouldnt have a sense that the people in your story existed if you skipped college.You also wouldn’t have met your professors.Your professors are not recordings of a class. They are most of the times respected and successful people in their field. You should learn about their work and ask for advice. They know the industry and it’s needs.Kind of cliche, I know but it’s true and it is the main stuff.Steve Jobs was inspired by college (even if he dropped out). He was inspired because it gave him the ability to explore things that he didn’t know he liked.Some more down to earth examples?Some engineering students and friends in my university were excited about medicine and they published with some medicine students, a paper on bio-medicine that has seen great success.Another guy I met at a party last month, is ready to leave for a university in France to write algorithmic economics simulations because he took an economics class and he liked it.To conclude, college is not obsolete. Sure it can improve but it has great value even in its current formHaving said that, I hope that your business thrives and that I’ll see your watches soon on people’s wrists or even mine!☺Robots are my friends

With the world moving forward at an incredibly fast pace, we have more and more options available to us when it comes education. The old school system does work, and produces decent results, but we now have to account for lifestyles that are a bit more hectic, and the fact that a lot of people have managed to gained expert level knowledge on a variety of topics through online research alone.However, the people who stand to gain the most from online education are people who are considering coming back to school at an older age, or those looking to acquire additional skills to help them in their line of work. Let’s look at how online education compares to traditional schools, using the Shaw Academy courses as an example.The basic problem with going to school is that you need to conform to a rigid schedule. You basically need to make school a priority and try to organize your life around it, which is not something everyone can afford to do. Another concern are large classrooms where it’s simply impossible for every single student to get a professor’s full attention. There is also a lot of commuting involved, and socializing with other students also takes up a bit more of your time. When it comes time to take the tests, you can’t really move deadlines around, nor can you study at your own pace. You may also find it difficult to join a school that is half-way across the globe, even though they offer just what you are looking for.At this online learning academy students are accepted from any part of the world, and students are allowed unlimited access to all the free learning resources that they may need. There are 10 live webinar type lessons in each course, which are an hour long and scheduled each week at several different times, but students can also opt for pre-recorded lessons if the live lessons don’t fit their schedule. You gain access to the pre-recorded lesson for at least a month and can view them as many times as you like, but you won’t be able to save them on your computer. The subject matter is always topical and the students get to learn about all the latest advancements in their chosen field — you can be sure you won’t be taught outdated principles.Their support is very good, and emails get answered in a timely manner. During live sessions, you can interact with the professors and other students just like you would in a regular classroom — e.g. ask and answer questions. The thing that sets the Shaw Academy apart from similar online courses is the fact that you need to pass the final exam to complete the course and earn your diploma. If you put in the work and everything goes well, you will receive an NCFE accredited diploma in the mail. They also offer tons of assignments and quizzes on a weekly basis, which a students aren’t obligated to take unless they truly wish to test their progress.The courses are available in several different languages, but the current choice is limited to the following courses:As you can see, these are all skills that are currently high in demand, and offer a lot of versatility in terms of application. For instance, someone might simply want to improve their training by learning more about sports nutrition, but it also opens up additional career opportunities, e.g. as a personal trainer or fitness blogger.All in all, online learning has gotten to appoint where you can rest assured that you will have access to true experts and tons of relevant materials available to you at any time of night or day, hassle free. It’s much easier to fit any course into your schedule, and you can still have full interactivity, because each person is different and requires a slightly different approach.CEO, Co-founder  Team Leader at 

Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker is one of a half-dozen Republicans confirmed to take part in the Aug. 19 Education Summit in Manchester, New Hampshire. In advance of the event (which will be live-streamed here), here’s a quick survey of Walker’s education record in Wisconsin, as well as his K-12 platform. (Also be sure to check out our report on Walker’s education record from Walker’s stance on the Common Core State Standards has evolved since his ascent to the governor’s mansion.Wisconsin implemented the standards before Walker became governor, and he initially backed their use before later calling on the legislature to repeal them. In his 2014 reelection campaign, he vowed to repeal the standards, a pledge The budget Walker signed July 12 lifts the cap on Wisconsin’s voucher programs from 1,000 students statewide to one percent of students in a given school district. That cap will continue to increase one percentage point every year for 10 years, until there is no cap. Special education students who can’t access open enrollment programs in other districts can use the voucher programs as well, the The final state budget doesn’t contain a Complicating the funding issue for districts is the expanded voucher program cited above. The new vouchers may cause an increase in property taxes, Wisconsin’s nonpartisan legislative research office estimated taxes will increase statewide by $21 million this school year and $23.5 million in the 2016–17 year.Keeping Score, Election 2016: Check out Wisconsin used federal Race to the Top money it received in 2012 to Wisconsin’s home-school community is a prominent force in state politics, and a key constituency in GOP primaries. As reported Photo by Getty ImagesThe Seventy Four is a non-profit, non-partisan news site covering education in America.

A point of view about what valuable company nobody is building[XAMCHECK is one the fastest growing education startups in India serving a student market of more than 1,00,000 (0.1 million) students achieved in less than 3 years. The product provides a connected learning experience for schools through offline and online means. It is powered by a team of more than 80 members with backgrounds in design, technology, data science, education, operations, sales/marketing and media. Recently it raised $1.8 million funding from Aspada Investors.The following is a personal post by the founders Naveen Mandava and Varun Kumar. Startups often have a point of view about their ecosystem that serves as a Magellan-esque compass for their decisions and actions.What follows is our point of view.]Dramatic changes are afoot in the i. ii. iii. iv. v. vi. But enumerating trends doesn’t tell us much about where we should reach. For that we have to dig deeper and ask ourselves the following questions.And here are our bets.[A Learning Profile of a child is a dynamic profile that stores the learner’s profile in terms of “what am I good at?”, “what am I weak in?”, “what do I like?”, “what do I not like” and other markers (academic and non-academic) of school and home environment. It also captures micro-information from contexts like programs watched on TV/tablets; what did s/he enjoy sharing on Facebook/Instagram; what did his parents buy for him recently; and maybe even health-related.]The world of education content earlier used to resemble the world of HBO and Washington Post with their reach. But the world increasingly resembles one occupied by the likes of Netflix and Buzzfeed with their hyper-focus on data science based personalization and digital distribution. And for that to happen, the acquisition of Learning Profiles is a must. Not just delivering MIT Professor Woodie Flowers puts it best.Instead, universities should produce new learning materials specifically for the online world:In their highly developed form, learning materials would be as elegantly produced as movies and video games and would be as engaging as a great novel. They would be ‘smart’ to both accommodate the learners’ varied styles and yield data to facilitate their continuous improvement.Each year, 600,000 first-year college students take calculus; 250,000 fail. At $2000/failed-course, that is half-a-billion dollars. That happens to be the approximate cost of the movie Avatar, a movie that took a thousand people four years to make. Many of those involved in the movie were the best in their field. The present worth of losses of $500 million/year, especially at current discount rates, is an enormous number . . . even a $100 million investment could cut the calculus failure rate in half.Online courses are to offline courses as movies are to plays. The marginal cost of delivering online courses is minimal. The potential audience is everyone with a smartphones and an internet connection — about 1.5 billion people today and growing quickly. There is no reason we shouldn’t be investing as much to produce online courses as we do to produce Hollywood movies.”The key question is — how do we unleash content marketplaces that can produce extremely engaging content for superior learning experiences.At the same time, learning content is determined by corporations and authors who span an entire book. We need authors for superior micro-content. There must be a teacher in Finland who knows really well how to teach magnetism foundational concepts. A teacher in San Francisco who is an expert at communicating applications of magnetism. How can there be democratization of producing micro-content yet it all comes together as part of a seamless learning experience.Fulfilling this demand will require modern and innovative content management systems that can respond to the context of the learner.Like Chorus at Vox Media.Of course, Google Now is the flag-bearer of context-aware computing. Google Now has the ability to personalize information for a person’s context (what I did earlier and what I am doing now; where I am; how am I feeling; who I am with; what devices are around me) based on the person’s profile and the networks he accesses.Imagine a Google Now for learning.It will learn what a child is learning (and My favourite example is of Time and Distance chapter in Maths. Assume a child Anna travelling on a train. A bridge is coming up. The smartphone throws up a relevant Time and Distance problem for the child — given This would imply that the Learning Profile knows about her performance/interests at school as well her exposure inputs at home. And based on that is pulling in various learning modules from around the world/internet to offer a seamlessly integrated and contextualised learning experience.This means that learning will be seen as a continuum of touch-points across school and home environments. There won’t be a silo-ed distinction of learning activities only at schools. Learning and fun can exist together.If you visit the EdSurge Edtech Index, you will find about 1507 products grouped on the following lines:a. Curriculum products — Products that teach conceptsb. Teacher Needs — For keeping learning on-trackc. School Operations — To keep a school hummingd. Post-Secondary — For students and institutionse. Everything else — Other stuff in edtech like apps, digital textbooks, home tutoring and video instructionUnfortunately, none of them take ownership of providing a seamless integrated learning experience, with the user at the centre.Majority of these products have the following thesis.The world is in a state X before the introduction of the product. After the product P is introduced, the world changes from X - (X′ + P). The benefits of product P are advocated. But two aspects are overlooked.a. The incentives and how to bear the cost of change from X to X′b. The enablers for the benefits of product P to be realizedHence many edtech products get stuck at the altar of integration.Based on this some entrepreneurs prefer to go the whole hog and set up schools from scratch like AltSchool and Bridge International. If the objective is to create large school private school systems, then it does make sense. But it may be missing the more valuable opportunity out there.The right questions for eliciting this valuable opportunity are: This means we slice the education space in a way that takes ownership of the learning experience (and additional layers for bearing the cost of integration) but not lock, stock and barrel. Uber takes ownership of the transportation experience but does not buy or make cars or have drivers on their rolls.We can slice the education space as three layers of Learning Inputs + People + Infra. Next, the Learning Inputs layer can be designed to have superior and seamless experience and, very importantly, is robust across a variety of (People + Infra) layers. This will enable dramatic reach and as well allow much more innovation across the ecosystem.The current K-12 school system in India is one of the largest in the world 250+ million students enrolled across 1.4 million schools.Given the size of the market and the requirement to be broad-based across a variety of private school environments, we at XAMCHECK made choices that prioritized blending in and setting up the stage to stand out.a. identification of mass market segmentsb. development of ‘whole product’ from buyer point of viewc. low friction for sales  distributiond. high product adoptability among users — ensure there is less friction and high desirability among all stakeholders (students, parents, teachers, and school promoters) — ride on existing behaviourse. easy integration with diverse school environmentsf. mass market affordabilityg. suitable technology in the back-end for smooth operationsh. emphasis on content management systems and data science — to ensure right content reaches the right student in the right time in the right form (4Rs)i. ensure starting point is print content as that is/will be a dominant feature of schools — but create gateway digital experiences through interactive augmented reality apps like Layar. The mobile internet users in India is expected to reach 213 million by June 2015.j. asymmetric push on design for user experience– identify and develop touch points that lend to digital experiences and sync all touch points to craft a superior learning experience across schools and homesFor more on our growth story to cross 1,00,000 students read XAMCHECK founder

Education entrepreneur Michael Strong took the time to share his knowledge on how to give your child a world-class education in this superb A transcript and recording have been made available below for your benefit:The class is based on an essay he wrote called So how old are your children? And if you don’t have any children, that’s fine as well. But often people interested in a program like this are interested because they are parents.While I’m waiting to get that information I’ll provide some general background.I often describe myself as someone who loves learning and hates school. I went to regular public schools in Minnesota and then Colorado. In those schools I did very well. In my junior year of high school I had a teacher that offered a discussion class where we simply read philosophy — Plato, Buber, Nietzsche — and we talked about ideas and I loved it. It was a blast.After doing that I discovered I went to Harvard and found that I was bored silly there having famous people talk at me. So I transferred back to St. John’s and graduated five years later — I took a year off to travel through Europe — and simply loved reading and thinking about ideas for four years.I went on to graduate school at the University of Chicago and worked on a dissertation under Nobel Laureate From there I got a job training teachers full-time in Alaska to lead Socratic Seminars in Homer and Anchorage. We were on grant money in Anchorage. When the grant money ran out, some parents asked me to start a private school based on the Socratic Method I’d been using.So I started In the meantime, I was asked to join the Montessori emphasizes highly individualized learning within an environment where children choose their work. The Socratic is more abstract, but it’s appropriate for secondary school because students are free to follow and think their own ideas in a fairly open-ended context. So I Socratized (so to speak) the pre-K-8 Montessori school in San Antonio while training teachers across the country.I came out with my first book, At the time I was involved in the field of learnable intelligence, where it turns out that there’s evidence that by means of a kind of questioning — I’ll get into this more later — one can actually raise the intelligence of one’s child and improve cognitive functioning. This was perceived as a way to really develop the scores and learning capacity of young people.At one point in the public school program I had developed in Anchorage, the minority females in that class gained four years of critical thinking skills in four months. The Watson-Glaser Critical Thinking Appraisal, which we used to measure progress, is correlated with both SAT scores and IQ scores.In addition I started measuring progress based on the College Board SAT. I thought, “The Watson-Glaser Critical Thinking Appraisal is esoteric — nobody has heard of it.” And so I would administer the College Board SAT annually from grade six onward.We had 8th graders at a After the Judson Montessori School in San Antonio, I created the Winston Academy school for highly gifted children in south Florida. We had 6th, 7th, and 8th grade students taking and passing College Board Advanced Placement courses. It was arguably the most academically advanced school in the US at the time.From there I was recruited to create Montessori middle schools in Palo Alto. That’s where we had our average 8th grade students scoring more highly than the average high school senior.And then I created the After that I met And then last year I reunited with Khotso Khabele, a man with whom I had been on his board in Austin, Texas from 2004 to 2008. He had left his school — he’d been kicked out of the school he founded — and was therefore available to start another one. So last fall, he and I created the We started with 33 students last August, ended the year with 40. Just before this webinar I was meeting with parents eager to get their children into our school. We’re going to be up to about 50–55 this fall and probably 70 next spring. We see this as a kind of education whose time has come.So I’ll just pause there and let people orient a little bit.[So because we have a few parents with young children and a few with older, I will start at the very beginning with young children. But in order to do so, let’s start with the end in mind.A rule whenever I think any of us are doing projects, but certainly with respect to education, I start with the end in mind.A couple of preliminary remarks:I think in order to be a great parent or a great educator, rule number one is to believe your child is capable and extraordinary in their own way. I feel as if our job as educators and as parents is to identify the unique genius in our child and help them manifest it as powerfully as possible.It may or may not manifest as mathematics. It may or may not manifest as languages. It may or may not manifest in an academic way at all. It could be their creative genius. Pablo Picasso could barely do arithmetic — he turned out okay. Albert Einstein was very slow to read. I think today he would be put in a special education class and be regarded as cognitively disadvantaged, but obviously he did okay.I think we need to perceive our children, what they’re strong at, and then develop that to an amazing extent, while also paying attention to whatever other characteristics we believe are important for our child’s success. And I say “we believe” because as one figures out how to optimize their child’s education, you need to decide, as a parent, what the boundaries are in terms of what you think is best for your child.Personally, I really don’t care about conventional education at all. A lot of the most successful people I’ve known did not follow conventional educational paths. I believe the value of following a strengths-based approach is so important that I really don’t think one needs to care much about the traditional paths. I will talk about ways in which you might want to be concerned about the traditional paths, just so you can do a minimalistic set of traditional preparation, while creating as much freedom as possible.So, with that whole preface in mind, I’m going to go back to starting with the end in mind.This is the strategy for college admissions that we are using at the Khabele-Strong Incubator.Homeschoolers have done such a brilliant job at knocking down the doors of college admissions. Very, very few colleges these days require a high school diploma at all. Very few colleges really care about 20 credits, 30 credits, whatever. Forget the credits. What colleges want is amazing young people.The example I like to give is when I went to Harvard, the student with the lowest SAT scores in my entry class had been elected Mayor of a small town in Michigan at the age of 18. If your child can get himself elected Mayor of a small town at the age of 18, nobody cares about the test scores. Similarly, if he or she can write a software program that sells, if they can create a YouTube channel that gets a lot of hits, if they can write a novel and get it published — you know, if they do something amazing. That matters, in college admissions and in life.If you care about getting your child into elite colleges or want the option of giving your child the option of elite college admissions, you will want to develop very high SAT scores in your child, if it’s appropriate. Again, it depends on the child. I think for some children there are situations in which parents’ ego needs are being met by the development of the child’s academic abilities to a very high level. On the other hand, there are some children for whom it is entirely appropriate to develop them to a high level.So you have to think about who you are and why you are doing what you’re doing with your child, but ultimately I know as much as anybody about high to raise SAT scores in a big way, and we’ll talk about that path. If that path is appropriate for your child, you want to get the SAT scores way up there. Start early, it’s much easier than starting late.Then a few Advanced Placement courses. These are College Board college courses that if a child has scored a 4 or a 5 (on a scale of 1–5) then the elite colleges will pay attention. But you don’t need to have ten AP courses. There are students at big suburban high schools who take ten APs, fifteen APs — it’s completely unnecessary.I know the former director of admissions at Yale; I know the son of a famous director of admissions at Princeton. In both cases, these people say — I knew somebody who was on a Harvard admissions committee as well — if they have great SAT scores and a few a great AP scores, those are sufficient signals that the child is academically capable. Beyond academic ability, then some kind of amazing real ability is much more important.Likewise, they don’t need to have a packed resume in terms of orchestra and student council and volunteer work and varsity sports. Most schools would rather see your child be truly extraordinary in one or two ways than have a resume that’s packed.I’ve been on scholarship committees where I read three or four hundred scholarship applications a morning. You get bored silly seeing orchestra, student council, varsity sports, straight A’s, blah, blah blah, blah blah, blah blah.What you want is you want your child to be amazing, stand out, be interesting. One real world case study: A student was applying to Harvard. He had dropped out of high school, gone and joined a Buddhist monastery, came back and finished high school. If nothing else, you’re reading Application #375 — Boom! You remember the kid who dropped out of school to join a Buddhist monastery. Simple as that. So go ahead and support your child’s radical individuality and be amazing at a high level.So, all of that to hopefully get people to see the importance of a strength-based education and identifying your child’s genius. And how for academic options the SAT is the big thing. If a child knows how to read, write and do math well, basically the SAT is just a reading, writing and math test. If your child has really high reading, writing math skills, then he or she will do fine in an AP course as well.So as a consequence, your job as parents, even from a young age, is to develop healthy habits and attitudes — healthy, confident children above all. And then beyond that, let’s crank up reading, writing and math to an extraordinary extent. And that child, if they’re confident, happy, emotionally healthy and well, and have high-level reading, writing, and math skills, then boom — we can do the SAT, we can do the AP, you’ve done a strength-based approach so that they’ve done projects that show how brilliant they are, then they will have amazing life options.I will frankly say that done right, your child will have better options than almost any child from almost any private school, let alone public school.One specific anecdote: Peter Thiel, one of the founders of PayPal, an early investor in LinkedIn and Facebook, and now a hedge fund billionaire, who a few years ago began sponsoring the Thiel Fellows, which were 20 students under the age of 20, each of whom were awarded $100,000 to drop out of college (or not go, as the case may be) and start a business. The students who win this turn out to be extraordinary young people. Most of them are in some sense homeschooled and most of them are confident young people who have been doing different projects from a young age. Those sorts of people did not worry about passing seventh grade science.With that vision in mind, let’s start to get more granular in terms of the reading, the writing, and the math.I won’t talk a lot about the confident holistic, but it is important. I think often school damages children by undermining their confidence. One of the best things you can do at home is to help make sure your child is confident. So we’re talking zero to five year-old children, or even if you have a child in preschool. Fortunately, most preschools do not damage children’s self-esteem. But, be sure that whatever relationships your child is surrounded with, support your child to be happy and well.All of the small schools I’ve created have attracted kids at least some percentage of whom had been emotionally damaged by their previous school experiences. Sometimes when they get into adolescence, especially with girls, this can manifest as various kinds of self-harm, depression, suicidal thoughts. So above all, make sure you raise your child to be a confident, healthy, happy human being.Within that, we’ll start with reading, and then go to writing, and then mathematics.Reading. I would say a prerequisite to developing reading skills to a very high level, is starting at a young age. First of all, limit what I’ll call electronic addictions.One of the things that shocks and horrifies me is that a lot of American homes have television sets in the living room, the kitchen, the bathroom, the bedroom, in the car, everywhere. Screens everywhere. That’s why I call it electronic addictions. Sometimes it’s TV, sometimes it’s videogames. Whatever it is, kids are always plugged in, and adults are sometimes plugged in, as passive consumers.If you want your child to be extraordinary, it’s most helpful not to develop addicted behavior vis-à-vis electronics. Those addictive behaviors vis-à-vis electronics will make it more difficult later on for you to transition your child to a life of reading.I often say that arguably the most valuable part of my own education is that I was raised in northern Minnesota in a very rural area where we had very poor television reception. Basically it was a fuzzy screen with black and white where if we worked really hard we could sort of see some images out there, but it was not a lot of fun, and as a consequence I read. I became a voracious reader. By the time I was in 6th grade I was reading a 200-page book every night. To this day I am an exceptionally fast reader and I consume a lot of diverse material. It’s just of incredible value.So, the first thing is, minimize screens in your household. It’s okay as a family to watch movie together. There’s no reason to be fanatical about it. But, I’ll give you one data point that’s not well known. If one looks in the United States, people are well aware that in international comparisons American children score poorly on tests. If you only look at those households with three or fewer television sets, you’ll see that American students from homes with three or fewer television sets score (I think it’s) the third highest in the world. What brings the American average down so dramatically to the point where we’re in the middle of the pack of OECD countries, are the huge number of households with three or more television sets. I think it’s something like 70–75% of American households have three or more television sets. And those households have dramatically lower test scores than those with three or fewer.So, how can we improve America’s place in international rankings? Just reduce the number of TV sets in the house. Sad, but true. I’ve probably ranted enough about that: Limit electronic addictions. As your kids get older, they’ll go to friends’ homes, have lots of screens, whatever. At your home, minimize electronic addictions.The other things is children are sponges. Everybody is wondering, how do I teach my children? The first is, who you are. Ralph Waldo Emerson says, who you are shouts so loudly I can barely hear what you’re saying.If the parents are readers, the children are much more likely to be readers.I have two grown children, one 26 and one 22. My son graduated from Reed with a degree in mathematics, worked as a software developer for a startup company. He’s been recruited by Microsoft and Apple and Amazon. He started the R statistical computing open source package group in Portland. He’s now doing a graduate degree in statistics. He’ll be able to do whatever he wants. My daughter just graduated from St. John’s. She’s still figuring out what she wants, but is happy, confident well and can do anything.When my children were young, one of the things that my wife and I did was that we read together in the evenings after dinner from the time the children were born. I read aloud to my wife when she was nursing our children. So, before even the tiniest bit of consciousness, evening time was reading time. Evening time was family reading time. Every single night. Occasionally something else would be happening, but pretty much every night.So what would happen was when my children were still at the crawling stages, they would be opening books and turning pages. They couldn’t read, they had no idea what was going on. But it was a ritual. As a consequence, my children became readers. They were in the habit of reading in the sense of turning pages and being around books well before they were able to decipher. And this was no pressure, no pushing. So one of the other things, no stress, no anxiety. Don’t put your ego needs onto your kids.One of the greatest insights by Maria Montessori was to create a learning environment where learning happens spontaneously. If you curate the learning environment of your home in the right way: minimum screen times, as many cool, interesting objects, toys, and fun stuff as you can, lots of books, and you model the kind of behavior — you’re an intellectually curious human being, you have engaged conversations, and you read around your kids and with your kids — your children are much more likely to spontaneously become readers.It’s that simple. You create this immersive environment where your children naturally become readers and then at some point, by the time they’re three or whatever, they’re going to be asking you to teach them to read. You can also of course as you read allowed start sounding out words and pointing out words.People get all hung up over whole language or phonics. For me, a lot of the debates around education are based one-size-fits-all models in the public school of strictly whole language or strictly phonics, which I would say is mistaken in both cases. Forget almost everything you hear about educational debates when you’re one-on-one with your child, because the fact is that when you’re teaching your child to read, yes you teach them how to sound out words and letters and so forth, and that is basically phonics-based instruction, and sometimes you talk about context, you read whole things, and you read words where they might not know all the letters, and you make it real and alive — that was the original inspiration for whole language reading — you make reading part of your culture and who you are.So you don’t strictly teach phonics in a narrow way. I can’t imagine a parent doing that. The whole language thing was a reaction to overly narrow phonics. And then the whole language was a disaster; they put phonics back in. Almost every education debate is one extreme and another. As a parent you just naturally teach your child to read. You want to create a warm, enjoyable, fun experience of reading. Your child gets to sit in your lap and cuddle and you talk and it’s time.My wife used to say — we’re now divorced, but I have a lot of respect for this insight — attention is love. And with children it’s absolutely true. Children crave attention. You want to be giving your child attention for all of the good things. The worst possible situation is when you only give your child attention when they are misbehaving and you ignore them when they are being good. That’s a recipe for disaster.If you need to correct them you do so quickly without a lot of emotion or distraction, just do it. But, when you’re doing good things like reading with them, love, love them, love them. Make it a delight. You want them to love reading. You want them to remember the experience of reading with you. You want their fondest memories to be with Mom and Dad and books and, you know, this whole thing. If you’re talking about ideas, if you asking them about what you’re reading, you want that to be enjoyable. So the more you can create this environment, the more likely you are to launch your child into a pathway of success.This is still age 0–5. We’re getting young people to the point where they love to read. And basically I spend so much time on reading because my feeling is that if the child becomes a reader, about 80% of the educational problem has been solved. I regard reading as that important.I’ve run a lot of schools. When a child comes in and I ask, “Do you read?” And the child says, “Oh yeah, I read this and this and this and this,” I think, okay done, this one is easy. And it doesn’t mean it will be completely easy — sometimes they have learning disabilities, sometimes they have a hard time with math, sometimes they have been emotionally damaged from another school. But, if a child is as reader, basically problem solved.Because how do you learn most content? Reading. You could say in the 21st century, video and so forth. But I would say that the people with the best jobs in the 21st century are going to be people who still know how to read and writer — or the vast majority of them. So if you want to give your child a great education, read. Love reading. Lots of reading. Reading is normal. Reading is a ritual. And then as the child gets a little bit older you talk about the reading. You ask questions about the reading. And a lot of the questions are warm and inviting. Again you want the experience to be enjoyable.Never, ever, ever, interact with your child around learning where they’re getting a negative vibe. You have to be acutely aware of the emotional ambiance, emotional manifestation, of your interactions with your child when you want to engage them in learning.So the way I ask questions with these very young children is to explore what the heck is going on in their heads. They’re in a totally different universe and I want to know what’s going on in that universe.One of the really fun Socratic discussions I’ve had with four-year-olds even (five-year-olds, a little bit easier) is four sentences. The four sentences are: my name is myself; my body is myself; my mind is myself; my soul is myself. Sometimes four and five-year-olds don’t know mind or soul and that’s okay. Most of them know my name and body. So whether it’s one-on-one or in a group — it’s more fun with a group, even your kids’ friends — ask which is most true. And it’s remarkable. People think, oh philosophy. But, I wonder what they think is true. And a lot of time, some students will say ‘my name is myself,’ but then they think about that one versus the body, and then they realize that well… And you can ask them, would you still be yourself if you had a different name? Or would you be somebody else? They think through that — “Well I’d probably be myself, so maybe my body is myself.” Then you can go to mind and so forth. I’m not attached to the term soul. I have no particular beliefs around it. But it becomes an interesting question to get them to think about what would that mean, if you want to go there.So even with young children, you can ask all sorts of questions.To give you a very different example: At one point I was reading two different kinds of alphabet books with a group of children. One alphabet book says ‘alligators swim in the rivers,’ ‘bears climb trees,’ ‘cats hunt mice,’ and so forth. The other is along the lines of ‘A is for alligators,’ ‘B is for bears,’ ‘C is for cats.’ And after reading both alphabet books I asked them, are they both alphabet books? And what’s interesting is some students said, yes, of course. Look, alligators, bears, cats, A, B, C. Other students said, no, no, no, no. It has to say ‘A is for alligator,’ ‘B is for bear,’ otherwise it is not an alphabet book. So the first one, cannot be. And then they developed reasons for that.With all of these sorts of examples, I as a Socratic questioner am not trying to prove them wrong; I’m not trying to intimidate them; I’m not trying to prove anything at all to them. I just wonder, what’s going on in that universe? We all used to be three or four or whatever. Who are these people? How do they see the world? How do they make sense of the world?So, with my children and with all of the young children I’ve worked with — and again, I’ve done a lot of work with three and four-year-olds (two is a little young; you can start asking questions, but three becomes a lot more fluid) — I try to discover their universe. When I would drive to school with my son, I would ask him, does this look like the same road we took yesterday or not? And I’m not trying to trick him. I want to try to understand how he’s perceiving the world and how he’s constructing meaning. There’s a whole strand in modern educational theory about how learning is constructing meaning. As a parent you can do a lot to develop your child’s brain by getting them to think metacognitively. Fancy big word, but it’s just getting them to think about thinking. If you ask them, is this the same road we took yesterday or not, they have to think, well is it or not? Simple, simple question, but you’re getting the wheels spinning.So I spontaneously would have daily these conversations with my children and the children in my schools. This sort of constant reading and then constant questioning, conversation, thinking about ideas. Is this the same road or not? Is this an alphabet book or not? My body is myself. These are all conversations about ideas. You’re getting them to assess, evaluate, think. Those sorts of conversations plus lots of reading will develop your child to an extraordinary extent. You can start from the age of three and pretty much do this sort of thing on up.I’ll kind of do a radical version. Even if all you did was make your child a reader and you had great conversations with your child, I think you could do that until the child was 11 or 12 or 13 with almost no other education at all, really no other education at all, and your child could turn out to have a spectacular life and do amazing things. Deep, long, thorough reading, thinking, talking is fundamental to everything. And my belief is that most parents are undermining their child’s development by sending them to schools where this is not what happens.To give you one example with my son, at one point we had moved to Florida so I could start the Winston Academy. There was a secondary school. My children were still in elementary school. My wife and I put our kids in the best public school in Broward County at the time. They had previously been in a Montessori school, which they loved. This school in Broward County, they hated it. We walked in, the second week of school, saw the lunch room, regarded it as abusive, pulled our kids out, and they were unschooled the rest of the year.But I looked at a book called So basically, it’s so simple. That’s why it saddens me that most children go to school and I would say are damaged unnecessarily because they could be learning a lot. So, lots of reading, lots of thinking, lots of talking. If your child’s school is doing that, fabulous. If they’re not, do it at home. If you feel more comfortable having a tutor do that, that’s okay. But, I think most parents can learn to support a culture of reading, thinking, and talking — not a big deal.Writing, the next thing — If at some point you want to teach your child the basics of writing, you could have a tutor for that. Sometimes the transition from non-reader to reader is labor intensive. You could have a tutor for that. The transition from non-writer to writer. You could have a tutor for that. But beyond that, once your child knows basic writing, then just like with reading, provide lots of opportunities to write fun, interesting things, stories. A lot of children love to tell stories. Have them writing stories.I’m going to back up a little bit on the story telling. I think that getting them to tell stories visually even prior to writing is a powerful way to get them to be creators. So the reading is good in terms of incoming. But now with writing you are getting them to create output.Start visually, get them to be fabulous storytellers. Of course put their stories all over your house. Celebrate their stories. Listen to their stories. Help them develop ever more elaborate and complex stories. When they read and understand stories you can start talking about what did the author do and why. And when you tell your story, do you want to do it this way or that way. Get them thinking actively as a creative being trying to figure out how to tell a better story and so forth.But again, lots and lots and lots of this. They should be telling lots of visual stories and once they learn to write then get them to tell lots of written stories. So that by the time they’re twelve or thirteen [they know a lot]. Learning is simple. The more learning you do, the better you get at it. If I skate a lot I’m going to get good at ice skating. If I play chess a lot you get good at chess. When I look at what you can do either in a homeschool / unschool environment or in say an alternative school that supports and encourages lots of reading and writing… Malcolm Gladwell famously talked about 10,000 hours to be world-class in something (in his book And things like punctuation, grammar, spelling: Once your child wants to write then you can start to introduce more and more of the conventions of English. Once they want to write, then at some point they’ll want to publish. What does publishing mean? It could mean a blog, it could mean a letter to Grandma, it could mean an email to someone, it could mean an Amazon book review. Once they are generating prose, then we can talk about well, just like you don’t want to look funny when you go out in public, you don’t want to write funny when you go out in public either, when you publish. So, once they are churning out lots of prose, you can coach them while they’re turning it out — sentence structure, grammar, punctuation, all of that. The real thing is to get them to write so much that they really are motivated to improve it because they have something to say that they want the world to hear. They want to be impressive. And at that point, it’s relatively easy to teach the mechanics.Also, if they’ve been reading a lot they will have sophisticated sentence structure, a sense for how colons and semicolons and so forth are used. The more they are a reader, the easier it is to teach the mechanics of writing. One of the most difficult things to teach the high school level is to teach somebody how to write a sophisticated paragraph if they’ve never read anything but textbooks. All the textbooks have been dumbed down so they’re all banal. And if that’s all the child has ever read plus a few fantasy novels, it’s almost impossible to get them to write an excellent analytical essay. They just don’t have the prose styles in front of them.So reading a ton makes writing easy. Write a ton. Tell stories visually and then write a ton. By the age twelve, thirteen, or whatever, your child will be a truly extraordinary, world-class reader and writer. They’ll be able to think, talk, read, write, speak — boom. If you need a few tutors to help here and there, not a big deal. Way less than $3,000 a year. If you can’t do it as a single parent or something, if you could possibly form a co-op, where you get four or five or six parents together who are aligned and all of you together hire some parents who are bright, maybe young college grads, or maybe retired professionals, who love kids, love learning. When I hire teachers, I don’t care if they’re credentialed. For the most part I avoid hiring credentialed teachers. Credentialed teachers have been taught to teach. I want interesting human beings for my kids to be around where the interesting humans being think talk, read, write, engage, excite, inspire. My number one standard whenever I hire teachers is do I want my child around that human being. And part of that is intellectually curious and active. Beyond that, let’s just get whoever can help get the reading and writing, thinking, talking, listening cranked up.That’s the super-simple recipe for up to age thirteen, for everything except mathematics. I’m going to talk about math now in a little bit.All of this is based on an essay I wrote several years ago called So mathematics is different because while there are some students who spontaneously have a real love for math — e.g. the philosopher Gauss was apparently correcting his father’s arithmetic at the age of three — the number of children who are spontaneously really adept and lovers of mathematics is relatively rare. If your child is that, I would say if you’re not very mathematically inclined, get him a math tutor, somebody who loves math. Forget math teacher. For me, you want someone who loves math, who thinks mathematically, makes sense of the world mathematically, who loves logic games, and have your mathematically-talented child around that kind of person early and as much as possible.If your child is more on the kind of normal spectrum where they don’t have a negative or positive opinion math necessarily (and when your child is very young, you probably don’t know), I very much encourage logic games, really for all children.Certainly, I would play them as a family. It’s not about competition, except unless it’s fun and silly competition. Again, just with reading and writing, no heaviness, no anger, no eager. You’re just a fun family, enjoying life, and one of the things you do as a family is you play logic games together. You think about the best move and how to strategize the best move and that sort of thing.You can also by the way do great language games. As they get older, In addition, the one exception to no screen time is: I’m a big fan of programming as a way to develop logical thinking skills. The Logical programming, logical games, I see those as really important prerequisites to developing mathematical ability. And just as with reading and writing, make it part of life. At some point you may want to get more into mathematics with your child. Again, my perception is that there’s no rush. If you’re providing your child with a really rich environment you don’t need to be in a hurry. Most of school time is wasted. If you got your child playing lots of logic games and doing logical programming, such that their minds were well developed to reason through things, you could start them doing arithmetic as late as seven, eight, nine, ten.The founder of the So if your child is ready to learn, they can learn a lot quickly. When I hear stories like that I always think, and so why were they forcing them to do things day in and day out before then, often training them to hate math above all?I would say with the logic games and so forth, make it fun, make it interesting and some of those can shift into math games. I would say this is one place where if you’re not mathematically adept yourself it’s probably worth getting a tutor. But the tutor is not somebody to teach them math; it’s somebody who loves math games. And so they can transition them from logic games and programming to kind of playing with numbers.There’s a wonderful organization in south Florida called This would be the single best investment if you want to spend some money, is to invest in somebody who can train your child how to think mathematically and have fun at it. At some point that person may want to teach your child the times tables and that’s fine, but at that point the times tables is a tool for them to learn how to think mathematically so they can solve these problems more effectively. And just like you can learn intelligence by means of lots of reading and writing, if you have somebody who is really adept at training mathematical thinking by means of these kinds of math-game-like interactions you’re way ahead of the game.So ideally you’ve done a spectacular job training your child how to read and write, think, talk, speak, listen, by the age of twelve or thirteen. And ideally you’ve done a lot of logic games and programming when they’re young. And finally, maybe at the age of six, seven, eight, you’ve found this really creative math tutor who can get them involved in translating their logical thinking to mathematical thinking by means of logic games, transitioning into math games.And at some point, students really crave a different environment. I’m going to shift and talk about the hormones a little bit. In traditional society, at the age of thirteen or so, children had a right of passage and then were often considered part of the adult community. Sometimes young men would have to and hunt their first deer alone or something. The hormonal shift into adolescence really changes the kind of social desire. Obviously they develop more of a sexual interest. There’s a relation to status and hierarchy within the tribe, we’ll call it, and that changes. I find they often develop a different kind of moral seriousness. Younger children can be morally serious, but as they hit adolescence, this kind of a deeper resonance and more of a social dimension to their moral seriousness. So what you want is to get your child to an extraordinary foundation in reading and writing and math, and have confidence and initiative and so forth, by the age of adolescence. And at that point, it’s time to really think about where you and your child are really going to go with all of this.Every child is different. At the Khabele-Strong Incubator, I often describe our school as about 1/3 intensely academic, 1/3 intensely entrepreneurial, and another 1/3 kind of creatives — we are encouraging them to become in some sense creative professionals. I always say you can still be a poor starving artist, but in today’s economy if you’re a really talented creative graphic designer, designer, video producer, that sort of thing, there are a lot of interesting and often lucrative careers possible.At that age, you might have a sense in addition to everything I’ve said, of course you want your child to have been exposed to lots of rich experiences, e.g. travel, nature, camping. Things like science and history should be fun, so never didactic, but they should have been reading and thinking and talking and going to museums. Again, you as adults are modeling, so if the parents are talking about ideas and this cool thing in science, that thing in the news — you want to manifest this fascination with the world that you want your child to have. So on top of the reading, writing, and math, just immersed in the coolness of history and science and news with no heaviness around learning at all.You’re going to have just a knock-your-socks-off, totally amazing kid at thirteen.And it’s time to begin to just think, no need to commit to one direction, but does it look more like your child is going to be interested in serious academics and college. Sometimes it’s totally clear. I’ve seen kids at thirteen where they’re an entrepreneur, no doubt about it, that’s what they’re going to do. In some cases their creative drives are so overwhelming, maybe they just draw all the time, maybe they just play music all the time, maybe they’re just fascinated with video.Whatever it is that your child is really into, now you want to start being a little bit more destination focused in terms of customizing your child’s education.So one way to look at this, should be obvious, but you never know, what does your child naturally gravitate to when they are left to discover things on their own? What do they do for fun? When I’m doing intake interviews for the Khabele-Strong Incubator, I ask a lot of questions about their relation to learning and so forth, but one of the most important questions is what does your child do for fun?I used to practice Of all the incredible opportunities you’ve exposed them to, some will most likely appeal more than others. It could be physical. There are some kids who are natural athletes. That’s wonderful, that’s their destiny.There’s a book called At that point you want to think about mentors for your child’s specific kind of genius. If they are an artist, maybe you want to devote more time to the arts side. If they are a mathematician or programmer or scientist you want to give them real development there. If they’re a writer, get them a serious writing tutor. So at this point you want to figure out what you’re going to do in terms of minimal required for college and what you’re going to do in terms of helping your child’s strengths, make them absolutely the best possible being that they can be in their strengths. And I would focus first on their strengths and then sort of see how you want to broaden opportunities by means of the college admission option.So for instance, if they are a brilliant creative type and want to go to certain kinds of art and design schools, typically the less prestigious ones, they don’t need extremely high SAT scores.There’s something called On the other hand, if your child wants to go to the Rhode Island School of Design, that’s a very rigorous academic process, so they need to develop themselves academically. They need to get the SAT scores up there. They should take a few AP courses as well as have a spectacular portfolio. So I would say around early adolescence, based on your child’s aptitudes and loves, explore what kinds of options you want to prepare your child for. Because you’re going to want to know, is it important that they pass a few AP courses? If so, they will need a certain level of academic rigor that may not be necessary if they’re going to be an entrepreneur or creative type.And if they do need that academic rigor that you might need to start real tutors or send them to a school that can provide them with that level of academic preparation. They’ll have the foundation. It won’t be a big deal. There might be a little bit of a transition if you put them into a conventional school right away. But that’s the time to make the decision in terms of what kind of academic march and what kind of specific academic training is needed. The most alternative approach, even if they’re going to the Ivy League, if you think that’s an appropriate path for them, is crank up the SAT by reading, writing, math. They should be reading lots of very serious, difficult, classic texts. They should be thinking, talking, reading, writing about these texts.And again, St. John’s Great Books coming out in me, but it may be contemporary science instead of classic texts. That’s okay. But, in order to crank up their SAT verbal scores, really serious reading and writing. Mathematics: they should be working with a real serious mathematically-talented tutor and/or taking a serious mathematics class to develop mathematical problem solving, so it will show up well on the SAT. If they want the option to go to MIT they should be on a path to be doing at a minimum AP Calculus, if not much more advanced mathematics.Again, if you’re not wasting time in school, you can take your child’s loves and have your child go well beyond the standard. But you need to figure out what that is, and how to build those strengths, and how not to waste your child’s time with irrelevant sorts of distraction like regular school.So finally you’ve developed your child on this foundation. You’ve picked the strengths. You have the mentors. In addition to deciding whether you’re going to do APs and the SAT or not and at what level, then the big thing is helping your child to do real projects. Going back to the notion that children in traditional cultures had this recognition of some level of adult responsibilities in their communities, I think it’s key to healthy adolescence that you give your child some level of real responsibility.Benjamin Franklin launched his professional career at the age of twelve or thirteen or so, as did Andrew Carnegie, John Muir, Thomas Edison. Back in the 18th and 19th centuries in the US and in much of the world, teenagers had pretty much adult level responsibility since the start of their lives.One of the biggest flaws in our civilization is the infantilization of adolescence. I encourage young people at the age of twelve or thirteen to look at real world-class excellence — writing, software, business, drama, music, whatever they are — and aspire to be a top performer. It can take them 10,000 hours or four years or whatever, but it’s not about school. It’s not about getting an A. It’s not about getting 20 credits or whatever. It’s I believe in you; I love you; I think you’re fantastic; let’s see what we can do with this talent you’ve got and see how you can show the world what you’re really capable of. So I see much of the time between age thirteen and eighteen, not devoted to academics, but devoted to pursuing personal excellence in something a child loves with a mentor who is skilled at the technical proficiency and also knows and loves the child.I’ll give one more anecdote on that and then I’ll begin to wrap up. There’s a book called Likewise, you want to select mentors for your child where that person loves and cares about your child, that person sets world-class standards, and that person knows how to coach your child to world-class standards. So you’ve decided on the level of academic training (SAT and AP) built on the foundation you developed when the child was younger. You’ve created, you’ve identified your child’s areas of interest. You have him or her working with a mentor who loves, sets world-class standards, and can develop proficiency. And you maintain healthiness, love, confidence for your child and can keep them away from negative influences.With all of that done, you will help launch your child to an extraordinary life.The cost is largely for some tutors here, some tutors there. If you can do most of this yourself the less need for tutors. Again, if tutors cost too much and you can’t do it on your own, try to get together with other families and try to create a co-op spontaneous school. I also help people start alternative schools. In some places there are a lot of a la carte educational options that are kind of learning. So say, if you can’t afford a math tutor, some places have math programs for homeschooling programs where they just have great math classes. You want to be in control of things so you can pick and choose how to craft pieces given your lifestyle, given what you can afford, given your personal skills and talents, craft all of this so that you can give your child truly extraordinary opportunities.I think that as we develop more options for parents including tutors who think this way, including homeschool options, including alternative schools, including in some cases vouchers and educational savings accounts and tuition tax credits and diverse sort of policy approaches, I believe we can allow more and more families of all socioeconomic classes the opportunity to provide their children with truly spectacular educations so that we can bring the genius of every child to it’s greatest manifestation and I would very much love to get as many people to that point as possible in the next few years and decades.So that’s a long ramble. I was only going to go an hour and I went a little bit over an hour, but I’m going to pause and see if there are any questions.[Anyone can log in with Facebook, Twitter, or Google to view the questions at the class link: Michael is 

Prague local We love working with him– he’s friendly, talented and extremely knowledgeable. He’s a role model for anyone looking to establish themselves in design. Which is why we wanted to chat with him about how he went from print to digital product design and the importance of self-education when universities can’t keep up with the pace of technology.It involves creating digital products from all the bits of it. So it’s not just visual design, but also interaction design, information architecture. It includes research. Just making sure that once people start using “this,” it actually makes sense.It also involves the communication with development team to make sure that what we’ve been planning, what we’ve been building is buildable. It’s a really fun thing to do because you have to keep so many things in check, there’s so much to balance, but that’s what keeps it fun.I started doing design when I was 14, so a while back. My first paid job was a website. I don’t have any formal education.I always try to make sure that the stuff I’m doing makes sense and really benefits the people that are paying me. And that naturally got me into the position that I’m in right now. I didn’t even know that it’s called until maybe two years ago. I was just doing it. I was reading a few articles and I was like, “yeah, this is exactly what I do.” I never had the ambition to become a product designer, I just wanted to make my work make sense. So you just question things until it makes sense.I really like the puzzle: the fact that you have to make everything fit neatly together… It’s funny watching people when you’re explaining a huge project after it’s done, it just seems so “duh.” I like that: this reduction of complexity.I think research is hugely important. People jump too quickly to visual design. Or maybe even information architecture. But unless you have a perfect understanding of your problem domain, you might create an amazing solution for a non-problem.I really love the project I’m working on right now. I don’t know if it’s going to be successful yet — it isn’t finished. It’s a huge project. I think I still have up to a year on it, so it’s a very long thing. The complexity is totally insane.It’s an application for making the hiring process suck a lot less. The hiring process is a really flexible thing. It’s different for every company, so creating something that works for everyone is hard and requires a lot of setting up, because you can’t rely on any particular flow of actions. You have to think in these small chunks. So it’s a huge challenge, which I always find fun.The product, once it’s done, is going to be hugely useful for people. That’s actually the reason why I went into it. I didn’t really want to take huge projects like this. I wanted to do things that took half a year max, because I wanted more variety. But the team is really cool and the people who are running it are really cool.Oh my god I prefer it so much. Yeah, variety is one thing but mostly it’s the freedom to choose your own plans. If you’re part of an agency or even some internal project team, you lose this freedom to turn down things that make logical sense but don’t feel right.And that’s my favorite thing about freelancing: I can make these decisions and no one can do anything about that.Yeah, there’s something that I’ve been thinking about for a long time… I think education right now is something that is particularly sucky. I love learning things. That should be a prerequisite [if you are to be successful in education]: if you’re someone who really likes to learn things the educational system should work for you, right? And I think right now it doesn’t.I have some friends who are hardcore scientists and for them it’s set up well. But if you want to learn how to do stuff, not just theoretically, but to build things — and that could be businesses or products or whatever — then I think our system is crap. Honestly, I don’t think there’s any gentler way to say this.Generally the setup of the education system is that the teacher prepares some syllabus and it’s up to the students to understand it and pass tests. And if they don’t do it correctly they have failed. But that’s wrong. The teacher has failed if they didn’t successfully convey the information to the students. So that’s one thing.The fact that you have to pay for uni in the West — here in the Czech Republic you don’t — in some cases it’s ridiculous amounts of money and you’re in debt the rest of your life. It traps you in this place where you can’t take risks, you can’t go traveling and all that stuff. You just can’t do it because you have to pay back your loans. And I think that’s fucked up. You shouldn’t be paying for studying.The apprenticeship model makes more sense [for hands-on professions]. And I think right now it’s totally looked at something bad, but I think if it was more high profile and a prestigious thing to do — so it’s a problem of perception in some way — and if there were really cool people doing it, I think that would be the way to go.I think teachers are put in an unfair position right now. Because if you look at how universities were designed in the first place they were scientific places. They were supposed to be deepening our scientific understanding of the world.If you look at how universities advertise [right now] it’s all like, “we offer industry experience. It’s all super hands-on” and blah blah blah. Except they can’t deliver on this because their whole system is so slow and our world is moving so fast. It can never ever, in this model of teaching, be super useful.It’s fascinating. You have this skill [like Javascript] that so many people really, really want and you have so many people that really, really want to learn it and they go to university to learn it. But if you go to learn programming you learn all these things that a lot of people will never use in their life.You’re learning all these complicated algorithms and that’s super useful if you’re doing hardcore programming and if you want to be a scientist or if you want to be the tech lead or if you’re developing a new technology. Then that’s useful, but that’s not really what happens to most people. They deal with basic stuff, as far as programming goes, and they’ll never use all these cool things they’ve learned and they have no experience with the kind of mundane things that they will do in the field. It’s like, what the shit?It’s totally not the case. I don’t have any formal education, but I had an advantage in the beginning, doing print design, because I grew up in an artistic family. Print design is much closer to art, especially if you are doing illustration or something like that… So I had a kickstart there.But everything else I learned from the internet. You pay for an online course — I used Code School, for example — to get some basic grasp… All this other stuff you can read from books or by following people on Twitter — I think Twitter is just a fantastic resource for this. People write about it so much. So many companies publish their findings.One dangerous side is that you need to be able to self-correct… You have to have enough curiosity to not be satisfied with just one source. You take all these things you can find on the internet as raw data that you then need to process and reform your opinion based on them. It’s not like you just blindly accept whatever comes from the internet. But there’s a lot of raw data, so if you read a lot of raw data you will get some interesting results.The advantage of the internet is that it’s fresh stuff. You don’t need to wait for anyone to read it, process it, and then give it to you. You just get it. And as your knowledge base grows — your internal one — you have more and more ability to have a critical opinion on what makes sense and what doesn’t. And you can be super fast. You can really be in the loop.Sometimes I feel like I’m really on the pulse of what’s happening, which is an amazing feeling. Something changes all over the world — like in Thailand, if something cool happens there, or in America — all these people around the world know about it. That’s fascinating and that’s the best way to learn because you can use the latest and greatest technologies. That’s a huge advantage in our world because what used to take a year can take a couple of days now.Storyteller at SleighdogsThe Sleighdogs Pack creating, writing, and talking about all things tech.

The history of education in Texas is an important, yet complex, puzzle that often required outside-the-box thinking to solve.From the Spanish colonial period of frontier missions, established in part as centers of education for the native people of the region, to Stephen F. Austin’s attempts to establish academies at San Felipe, and onward, various efforts were made to institute public education for Spanish, Tejano, and American settlers of the region. Initial action was taken to provide for education in 1839, following President Mirabeau B. Lamar’s December 21, 1838 address to the Congress of the Republic. Lamar said:Lamar proposed using the public lands to support education. The Texas Legislature set aside over fifty million acres of public land for public and higher education. Rutersville College was named in memory of Methodist missionary Dr. Martin Ruter, who had an extensive track record of establishing private, religious schools throughout the United States. Dr. Ruter, however, died at Washington-on-the-Brazos in 1838 shortly after arriving in Texas. Rutersville College opened it doors in January of 1840 with an enrollment of 63 co-educational students.In 1841 the Texas Legislature granted four leagues of land in Blanco, Gillespie, Williamson, and Hill counties to Rutersville College by a certificate issued under “an act to establish and incorporate the Rutersville College approved 5th February 1840.” The school used the revenue generated from the land to help defray costs associated with constructing new buildings, purchasing materials, and to help sustain the financial security of the college. Within the Texas General Land Office Archives are the original land grant documents for Rutersville College, which include the signatures of John C. Hays, then the County Surveyor for Bexar County, and the first Land Commissioner, John P. Borden.Rutersville College began its mission to educate the sons and daughters of pioneers, with over 800 graduates on record from 1840 until the school’s demise in 1856. On the site of the former campus, no buildings remain, as they were removed in the 1890s. Its legacy remains alive today on county maps filed at the GLO, where the land grants issued to the school are depicted in their original locations. Furthermore, Southwestern University in Georgetown, another Methodist institution, traces its lineage through Rutersville College and is home to the original bell from the Rutersville campus.Rutersville College was not the only private institution to receive land grants; the Republic of Texas issued a total of 172,000 acres of land to help fund various private and parochial schools. In total, from 1846 to 1861 the Texas Legislature granted charters to 117 educational institutions, not all of which received land grants. This group consisted of forty academies, thirty colleges, twenty-seven institutes, seven universities, five schools, three high schools, two seminaries, one collegiate institute, one orphan asylum, and one medical asylum.While not household names, these private institutions and others like them provided educational opportunities for students at a time in Texas history when the odds of success were very low. Despite numerous setbacks and challenges, these schools blazed the trail for the eventual establishment of a public education system across the state, which is partially funded through management of the Permanent School Fund.Official Account for the Texas General Land Office | Follow Commissioner George P. Bush on Twitter at 

What makes our campaigners so special? Well, their perseverance for one thing. Many of the incredible individuals fundraising with PoP don’t raise $25,000 in one swoop, but instead commit themselves to our cause for however long it takes to achieve their goal.Take Debbie Bennett and Galia Goya. The two were searching for an opportunity to work together and make a difference in the world. After reading Adam’s story in their yoga book club, they decided that campaigning for PoP was the project they were looking for. Inspired by “Adam’s story showed us that each and every one of us has the power to make positive changes in the world. We felt empowered to make these children part of our story by helping them have access to quality education,” Debbie explained.From June 2014 to January 2015, Debbie and Galia planned and executed over 20 events, including a garage sale, a Zumba birthday party celebration, weekly yoga classes by donation, multiple Snack Shacks sponsored by the Kids Care Club, numerous birthday party gift donations, a fundraising dinner at Nom Nom’s Mexican Grill, a booth at a Trade Days market (featuring bracelets, face-painting, tattoos, etc.) and even a chess tournament!Both Debbie and Galia believe that education plays a critical role in the foundation of a person’s life.“Education is such a key component to our ability to grow and prosper as humans,” Debbie told us. “Whether you are learning your ABCs, attending a lecture on world peace or taking a crash course in underwater basket weaving, your life will always be significantly changed by this acquisition of knowledge.”Galia added that to her, “education means ‘freedom.’ Freedom to expand our world by learning … Education allows us to expand the way we experience life. It is a key that will open many doors in our path, helping us to give meaning to our life.”The team’s name, Entangled for Education, comes from one of Galia’s life mottos: to be aware that we are all interconnected.“To me, your happiness is also my happiness. I truly believe that we are all interconnected and that our suffering or happiness is one with everyone. I have experienced firsthand how being kind to others brings happiness to my own life,” Galia told us.At PoP, we always tell people to think about what they love doing and do it for our organization. Debbie and Galia are perfect examples of following their passion — Debbie: “to create a solid foundation of health, education, spirituality and fun for my children; Galia: “to fully enjoy every moment with my children and to advocate for those in need” — to make a huge impact. They’ve already built one school with PoP and are currently campaigning to build another. They’re truly inspiring and we couldn’t be happier to have them as part of our PoP Family!______________________Pencils of Promise brings life-changing education to children living in poverty around the world.Meet the incredible people (33,697 and counting) who are committed to providing children in the developing world with access to quality education. Join them: 

The current way we teach and study has become a dead system in certain industries. Especially for the creative industry, it has become very difficult for schools to prepare students for the reality of the real world.The current system has certain problems which make it extremely difficult to reach state of the art and to prepare students enough for what they face once they have their degree and are looking for a job. Innovation is possible and in my opinion, Internet is our friend in this situation. Let’s explore some of the problems:This is both great and bad for a number of reasons. First of all, studying in group creates interaction, which is a great thing as it let us learn from each other. Students and teachers alike. Though, the problem is the actual classes. Classes are teached in a specific way (usually non-interactive) and the problem is that it isn’t individualized. The class is either too fast or too slow. Too simple or too advanced. Some people enjoy it, others find it boring. By teaching in groups, you create the problem that it’s extremely difficult to give every student the same opportunities and knowledge to prepare them for the future.In my opinion, this has become a Many courses ignore aspects such as working with This usually means that the content we’re studying is irrelevant or that there’s a missing link with reality.I’m incredible annoyed with the fact how much our society relies on having a degree. Yes yes, I know, you don’t need one, “We can summarize this all in one quote.This is why people who are willing to take risks (by starting a business for example) have a far greater chance at succeeding in the ‘real’ world outside the classroom. In my own experience I can say the following:So, are there any actual solutions? Yes. School needs to change.Studying individually, at your own pace is far better than studying in group. By offering content and the possibilities of online education (such as Tuts+, Treehouse, …) students have the possibility to learn a lot in a limited period of time. The only real requirement? Motivation and passion. If a teacher has to push you to study certain content, there’s either a problem with the content or a problem with your motivation. Do what you love to do, for sakes. You’ll learn a lot more in the years you study than now.Help students start a business, let them do multiple internships instead of following classes, let them have a QA with industry professionals. God, anything but having classes 24/7.The real innovation of education will become the Internet. I’ve already learnt more by studying tutorials and courses I find on the internet than real classes. We shouldn’t consider this as a problem, but we should embrace the possibilities of the Internet.Simple. If you want to prepare the current generation of students for the real world the moment they have their degree, a couple of things will have to change.Freelance product designer. My work is driven by balancing user goals with business goals. I write about UX The Editorial Page

What is the most lethal disease infecting schools right now?It’s not swine flu.It’s not chickenpox.It’s senioritis.For those of you who are unfamiliar, senioritis occurs when students stop caring about school. And contrary to popular belief, senioritis doesn’t just effect seniors. In fact, it effects students all the way from kindergarten to college even.So if this disease is really so deadly, it begs the question: Why do students stop caring about their education?Anyone can see that students stop caring about their education when they lose interest… lose passion in their work. But I want to go one notch even further.Here’s where my education dweeb comes out.Humans are generally accepting the theory that the lack of passion comes from a general lack of agency. Okay, what the hell is agency?Let’s be honest. Students these days don’t feel like they have agency. They are forced to graduate high school, where they are forced to do home work a certain way, answer test questions a particular way, even write essays with very finite strategies in mind. So what does this mean from a passion standpoint? Well, I can’t blame students for feeling a little less then passionate about their educational choices when their choices are… not their choices.Excuse my inner hippie, but you either answer questions the way This lack of agency is really hurting our students on a plethora of levels. Everything from individualism to comprehension to retainment post classroom is being hindered by this cookie-cutter academic model we currently have.I mean wouldn’t you agree that if we waved a magic wand and suddenly every student in America was interested in their classes that they would do better?Just yesterday I was introduced to a neat little website called Until today, most educational video games have been delivered the same way my mom tried to get me to take cough medicine when I was little. She would force feed me some awful tasting pseudo-cherry flavored crap and I would try my best to wash it down with soda. In the same vein, educational games try to hide learning with some snazzy effects and images but it is almost never fun to play.Coding Combat does it differently.Coding Combat allows users to choose heroes and armor which all offer the user to utilize more advanced programming techniques. These advanced programming techniques in turn help the user fight their way through traps, puzzles, and ogres to unlock better heroes and better armor.And it’s nothing short of genius.First of all, the game is wickedly addictive. So bravo for that.Additionally, it really nails that agency thing we discussed a while ago. Before every level I find myself swapping out armor and abilities to see which will give me a better edge in game. It feels like I have all the power when it comes to decision making.But in game… Oh god… In game is where Coding Combat really proves its brilliance. There are infinite ways to win, and different levels of loot that I can achieve depending on how well I learned the programming concept. This encourages learning because I can only receive the best loot if I learn the material flawlessly.I can’t say enough about the game. Seriously, if you want to learn Python or Javascript or any of the other 6 languages they have available, Coding Combat is second only to downloading the information into one’s brain directly. (Protip alert: we don’t have that technology yet. But we do have Coding Combat, and you get to fight ogres in the latter!)Coding Combat is going to usher in a new era of education. I wouldn’t be surprised to see this explode on social media timelines. Eventually, I would love to see a Chemistry Combat and a Culinary Combat. Additionally I would love to see these types of games be part of more school curricula (Ann Arbor High Schools are starting to play it in the fall). But for now, Coding Combat is proof that Gamification (the process of turning education into a video game) is not only worthwhile but the way of the future.Don’t believe me? Head over to You gotta slay a few dragons to get to the princess #MHacks #MichiganHackers #ClassOf2018 #Umich

Alexis, looks like the Department of Education took your advice:a guy who does stuff 

Over the past few months I have been reading more and more about America’s inadequate education system. While I do not understand all of the problems people are finding with it, or how exactly they want it to improve, I have some personal experiences I would like to share on this topic.My name is Octavian Ristea and aside from attending kindergarten in Romania I have not studied in another country. I have no strong and personal comparisons to make between the education system in America and the education system of other countries.Additionally, I have nothing to share about my senior year of high school because I dropped out before it began.I attended Dogwood Elementary School which is located in Reston, VA. During a part of my six years there I was a “gifted student,” which essentially meant nothing.During some of the years there only a portion of Gifted Students from classes worked with the Gifted Education Teacher, Mrs. Martin. During other years, all classes worked with her.I remember one time in the third grade we were assigned a project in her class in which we would pretend to be European explorers traveling to the New World. We were told that we could have any resources we needed and had to create a list of things we would bring with us on the ships to the New World.The explanation for the project didn’t make too much sense. I figured it would be like a game in which we would get past imaginary obstacles with the imaginary resources we’d bring with us.I remember creating a list including donkeys and compasses and horses. This list outlined thousands of pounds of cured meat and other things I thought I would need. And I also sketched a beautiful compass on the construction paper holding the list.The project was not exciting since it lacked limitations and I brought nearly an entire world with me upon the imaginary ships, but I wanted to see where it was all headed.What I don’t remember however is us ever coming back to Mrs. Martin’s class to continue with the project, turn it in, or have it graded. I think I found that construction paper list a year or two later and that was the first time I remembered that we were never called back to turn it in or talk about it again.A year or too later I was back in Mrs. Martin’s classroom. This time the assignment was to create a blueprint for the teacher’s lounge. It wasn’t too clear if this blueprint would be used to update the actual teacher’s lounge or whether it was just another imaginary game.Once again, there were no limitations on the resources for this project. I went ahead and drew a blueprint for a teacher’s room that had dozens of underground levels which were connected with an elevator. There was a room for gaming and a room for dining and much more.The blueprint was displayed on a blue poster board I bought, and the “teacher’s lounge” I designed looked really great. I wanted to see what grade I would get, or who would win, or if this blueprint was going to do anything for me considering I had spent some time and money in putting it together without learning anything valuable.The project was turned in this time. But it’s funny because I don’t remember it ever being graded or us talking about the other submissions or going anywhere further with it.The Gifted and Talented program at Dogwood Elementary School seemed to be more like a black hole than an educational opportunity. Assignments were assigned and forgotten about, or projects were retrieved and returned without being graded or looked at.For another project with Mrs. Martin our entire class had to create a way for an egg to not break when dropped from a height. I remember building our contraptions and testing them as groups.There was supposed to be some sort of ranking for who’s contraception was the most efficient, but after the testing was done we went back to our regular classes and didn’t meet back with Mrs. Martin to finalize our results or talk about what each group learned from their work.I also remember that the teacher I had in the third, fifth, and six grade would later describe her job and GT program within that school as useless. (His opinion on the program, which he shared with myself and my father, was that it took time away that he needed to work with ESOL students on standardized testing preparation.As far as I am concerned, the GT program I was a part of was as beneficial as a regular teacher assigning a project which involves a lot of imagination and zero feedback or educational progression.I certainly do not see a need for this tenured woman, Mrs. Martin, to be given a yearly salary for work which is seemingly not monitored in anyway; and work which is deemed useless by other teachers. I cannot speak for other GT teachers and programs, but the one I was a part of at Dogwood Elementary School was a complete waste of educational resources. It was a waste of time for the students and teachers that could have been learning and teaching material effectively, and it was a waste of the funds that kept it running.The mission of the National Society for the Gifted  Talented is explained as such:If it sounds quite vague, youre not alone.According to a In other words, GT programs are indeed a complete waste of resources that could be allocated differently and without the mere purpose of making parents feel good about themselves.Talk about bad luck…I attended Lanier Middle School which is located in Fairfax, VA.In the seventh grade my English teacher, Mrs. Patterson, declared on the first week of school that I had run out of questions and that I couldn’t raise my hand up again for the rest of the year. I believe that the issue at hand was that my questions were annoying or useless.For the rest of the week I was belittled when I raised my hand. Eventually throughout the year I could raise it to answer questions but I had a hard time with that as well.Mrs. Patterson also made it extremely hard for me to get my bathroom pass signed: at a time I had an active bladder and needed to use the bathroom around once every two hours. Whether or not I had to use the bathroom more often than deemed “normal,” it’s I remember one day asking Mrs. Patterson if I could use the bathroom and she said to wait until we would take our test. Then I finished the test as fast as I could, needing to use the bathroom, and asked her if I could use the bathroom again to which she responded I would have to wait for something else. I don’t remember what it was, but I can imagine it might have been for everyone to finish testing so that I didn’t help them cheat or disturb them by leaving the room.By the time everyone finished I figured I wouldn’t ask right away since she didn’t seem too happy the first two times I did. She was also busy collecting tests.After ten minutes or so I asked if I could go to the bathroom and she said that I should have asked earlier because we were beginning our lesson within a few minutes. I was told I couldn’t go.So I waited until the lesson was over and I walked out of the classroom, used the bathroom, and came back without asking or telling her. I suspect she either didn’t see me or she did and did not want to make a fuss about it.If Mrs. Patterson did see me, I would say she made the right decision in not acknowledging it. I can’t imagine what my dad would have said had he been called at work and told by her, or an administrator, that I was caught leaving the room without permission because I had to use the bathroom.While I can’t imagine what my dad would have said I can imagine what he wouldn’t have said. Things such as “I understand, I’ll talk to him,” and “he just can’t do this, he needs to know that he can’t use the bathroom unless you let him,” would have likely not been said by him in such an event.While Mrs. Patterson was a little restrictive in things like letting me raise my hand or using the bathroom, I do have to thank her for one thing:Recommending A Separate Peace to me. She knew that I was bored with the class and gave me a book that she figured I would enjoy, and I did. While I found Mrs. Patterson’s behavioral and teaching taste dislikable, I have to admit that her reading tastes were very refined.My English teacher in the eighth grade, Mrs. Dunn, was much more than restrictive. The best way I could describe her behavior was aggressive. She would take me outside of the class and instead of disciplining me for something such as not turning in the vocab cards homework, which had to have a different color for every letter of the word, she would put me down as a human being.If youre asking yourself why each letter had to be a different color, then youre asking the same question that the students of my class and I asked the first time we were assigned such a time-consuming task.Mrs. Dunn’s irritated answer was that the more time we spent on making the cards the more likely we would be to remember the words. She was personally insulted that we would even ask why we should complete the cards in such a way.I found the ongoing card assignment a bit ridiculous, as I did any teacher that mandated preparing for quizzes and tests in the way they would personally study.If I can look over a list of twenty words and determine that I don’t know what four of them mean, and then learn those four words my own way, why should I spend my time creating twenty vocab cards with colorful pizzazz?Sometimes I didn’t make these assigned cards, and at other times I scribbled the letters in different colors as quickly as I could to make the most horrendous cards imaginable. As long as they were done they got checked off for competition but most of the time I couldn’t bring myself to even those scribbles. I opted out of those silly assignments very often and because of it I payed in having to listen to the most inane ideas attempted to be funneled into my brain.I figure that Mrs. Dunn told me at least ten times that I would end up working at McDonalds and that I was going to go nowhere in life while we were outside the class making sure that I understood life and my future.I could have quoted Bill Gates:I could have told her that there were probably English professors talking with journalist students after class, letting them know that they are going to end up teaching middle school English classes if they don’t change. And that her opinion, and the opinion of those professors mean nothing, and that she shouldn’t stand around badgering the profession of others.But I didn’t. There was no need.Outside of the class I just nodded my head and let her go on and on, with what essentially seemed like a session of her convincing herself of something.Within the class I made sure to respond to her nasty comments as quickly and controversially as I could, which would often land me back outside. I figured she would eventually stop deriding me but it didn’t seem like she was learning her lesson.So she kept talking and I kept nodding my head.In my seventh grade history class Mrs. Bentz made a comment about me standing up while working on the classwork that had been assigned to us. We had to cut out images and glue them in a visual dictionary and I was at a desk in the back (so it’s not like anyone was being inconvenienced by me standing).This class also happened to be at the end of school, every other day. Near the end of school I was always tired of sitting down so I would stand occasionally when I could.Mrs. Bentz said that it was weird I was standing up and asked me what I was going to do in high school. I told her that I would stand up if I had to and she laughed saying “good luck.” Whatever I figured, and continued to stand in my high school classes from time to time as well.Just yesterday I watched a moving TED talk titled “During my eighth grade, all civics classes were required to part-take in Junior Achievement. We were all given a JA booklet which we had to periodically complete worksheets from throughout the year.The worksheets consisted of basic math that was focused around budgeting and finance management. Also, at the end of the year all of the classes visited the JA Finance Park for a financial simulation of graduating high school, getting a job, financing college, buying luxuries, and investing in stocks.I would later buy stocks of two companies in high school and instead of attending senior year I dropped out and began living on my own. JA Finance Park did absolutely nothing in terms of teaching me about stocks or personal finances.While the JA program is privately funded, I cannot truthfully say it has much benefit to the average middle school student and their future personal finance abilities.Below are a list of some of the suckers that thought their investment would help the 150,000 students that participate in Junior Achievement, or possibly, just wanted to show off their investment in children somewhere:In my freshman year of high school all of the biology students took part in a program called PREP which was created by the Virginia Polytechnic Institute  State University. This program, which still continues today, is described as such:In other words:There would be nothing wrong with this program, for me, if I hadn’t already conducted such an experiment when I was in the third grade, outside of school and without anyone asking me to do such a thing.There would be nothing wrong with this program, for me, if I hadn’t already learned what an independent and dependent variable was during the third grade in which I recorded my findings and even drew daily diagrams of my experimental pots.I didn’t have mutated arabidopsis seeds, but I didn’t learn any less through my experiment six years prior. And six years later when I was part-taking in PREP I had to listen to extremely boring talks about the simplest of knowledge, then I had to engage in a PRACTICE PREP session, and then finally in a REAL PREP session. It was directly the opposite of the hands-on and exciting experience I had as a third grader with my own experiment.If I could talk to the education system during my freshman year of high school in regards to the Biology Honors I class was in, I would ask “are you freaking kidding me?”Furthermore, there would be nothing wrong with PREP if it wasn’t supported by a Science Education Partnership Award (SEPA) from the National Center for Research Resources. There are so many other ways states can invest their money into the education system other than programs like Gifted/Talented and PREP.After having already seen useless programs such as Gifted/Talented and JA Finance in action, which the funds of could have been used in better ways, it was confusing to see the same thing again at the high school level.While the idea of outsourcing a lot of inaccurate plant killing work to high schoolers (to collect information and look into interesting results back at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute) sounds like a great idea, it’s not necessarily a good one at all. The same exact hands on experiments could be conducted in classrooms with resources already available within the school.And these experiments could be conducted without the need of a nationally funded PREP program masquerading as a search for discovering a gene which will lead to building a super crop that will feed the world of the future (as we were told).Just give me a break already! Students don’t need a fabricated “authentic scientific research opportunity” that many will come to hate as much as much as when they were forced to create colorful English vocab cards or visual history definitions in middle school.And the national funding that such programs acquire will lead to their growing popularity and confuse even AP Biology (college level) teachers into thinking that they provide a valuable learning experience.What happened to the merit of learning, in a learning institution, for the merit of learning? Why do we have to throw a GT or PREP label on lessons to make anyone, students or parents, validate a lesson as worthy? Why do we mix a Junior Achievement program with dozens of board of directors, virtual financing games, and finance park into middle schools? Is it really necessary?Can a middle/high school teacher that has graduated college not work with their colleagues to develop lesson plans that will “In this class we had to finish the online safety program before going into the garage, along with a course on auto knowledge. Half of the class did not complete these two programs by the end of the second quarter.During the third quarter our teacher told us that as long as we complete those programs we will get an A on our final. Then some sort of test came around and he said if we get a passing score on it we will get an A on our final.Then the last day came around and he said if we clean the garage we will get an A on our final.Mind you this teacher was retiring in four years so he said we could join him along on his last few years, by taking the class every year, and things would be pretty easy going.He was actually a great guy and sold sodas which he kept cooled in his fridge for $.75. This inspired me to start bringing soda to school and selling it with a friend, which started out at $1.00 a can and then quickly went to five cans for $2.00 (or something outlandish like that) after we gained a competitor.For a week or two we also engaged in a friendly monopoly where we insured that our prices didn’t get out of hand again. But eventually they did to the point where it was more hassle to sell the sodas than they were bringing in profit.I give Mr. Steger an A on inspiring me to do something, anything, in high school. He also had jailbroken his iPhone, which made him an older-gen hipster, and threw a grilling party for us at the end of the year to reward us for just “chilling” the entire year.Mr. Steger’s teaching style was interesting because he let the students that wanted to do nothing do nothing, and he taught the students who wanted to learn anything they wanted to learn. There was absolutely no resistance in his class of any shape or form.Those that weren’t productive spent their time playing video games or looking up photos of marijuana nugs, and those that were productive got as far as they could throughout each day and throughout the year.That entire class gets A++ from my perspective.Did I mention that I now know how to rotate wheels on a car, change tires (if I have the machine necessary for doing so), and replace break pads?Did I mention that learning all of these things required zero private or public funding, save for the cars that old students and teachers donated to the shop?During my freshman year of high school I was problematic student that talked with those around him more than he listened to what was going on in the classroom. My teacher, Mrs. Gironda, was supportive through me not really doing any work and losing assignment papers right after they had been handed out.Well, she tried to be as supportive as she could be. I folded important assignment papers and put them in my cargo shorts and had a stack of them that I would switch between pants everyday.The first time I turned in a folded piece of paper, filled out and on time, she was insulted that I would do such a thing. We went outside to talk about it and agreed that we disagreed on the rudeness of turning in folded papers. I unfolded it but she was still upset that there were creases in it.After my experiences with my first two English teachers in middle school I likely developed a knack for not listening. Which is unfortunate because if I took the same class with what I know today, Mrs. Gironda and I would have been on the same unfolded and uncreased page.She would have been pretty easy to get along with had I respected the things that mattered to her. The things which I did not give second thought to because I had become fed up just about everything else.Her final for the year was a list of sentences in which we had to fill in with an appropriate word from a word bank. It was extremely easy and I got a high score on it.However, Mrs. Gironda wasn’t around the next year and the rumors were that it was because her final wasn’t liked by the other teachers. I’m not too sure if these student rumors were accurate. I personally suspect that she wasn’t finding freshmen English teaching enjoyable.I regret that I likely made up at least 5% of such feelings.During my sophomore year, my English teacher was Mr. Rubenstein. He wrote my dad an email during some point in the year which has been retrieved below:Just for the record, I was in My father replied to the email letting him know that as the teacher which is present during classes, Mr. Rubenstein is best equip with sending me outside or giving me detention. I don’t think Mr. Rubenstein emailed my dad again after that, and he didn’t send me outside or give me detention. Making me question why he was emailing my dad to begin with if he didn’t find my behavior worthy of being reprimanded.My dad asked me why I was talking to the other table and I let him know it was because the people at my group weren’t very open: they weren’t. At least not as much as the table next to me.In my junior year, while taking AP English, I had an interesting experience.Students were asking questions about their graded essays and I raised my hand to ask about a note on my own essay.The prompt involved a book we had read, The Scarlet Letter, and likely something about the logical fallacies characters engaged in throughout the plot.In my essay I wrote it’s that possible Nathaniel Hawthorne may have been alluding that all of the logical fallacies the characters made may have been caused by a “God fallacy.”While a God fallacy term does not exist, there is the Not to mention that there are even men such as Bill Nye that have stated cConsidering the theme of Nathaniel Hawthorne’s work, I found it possible that the logical fallacies his characters made were created to show their hypocrisy, inconsistency, and disconnect from reality (such as justifying the punishment and harassment of a mother found guilty of adultery).The first thing that happened as I asked my question, as to whether or not such alluding was possible (the note on my essay indicated otherwise), was another student saying “did Octavian just say that God doesn’t exist?”Then the class erupted in talking and after everyone was quiet I answered that I did not say God does not exist. But rather, in my essay, I stated it’s possible that Nathaniel Hawthorne was alluding that God may have been a fallacy (as all the others were caused by the belief in him throughout the plot).The teacher responded that Nathaniel Hawthorne was not alluding to that. Which was quite a definitive answer for a man’s work that is long dead and who’s religious beliefs are not well known, other than that he was not a member of any religion. For all we know he could have been a diest, pantheist, or atheist among a Puritan, a Christian, or a Satanist.Then the student proceeded to tweet that “Octavian just told our class God is a fallacy.” I responded, stating that I had never said that and it seemed like nobody was listening: let alone remembering what I had actually said.Then the teacher came to chime in that “God is a fallacy would not be an effective example on the AP Lang exam. ☺”I asked the student to delete his tweets because I had never said that, and he told me that “don’t worry I’m atheist. I thought it was really funny.” I told him that I’m an agnostic atheist and that I would never state something as a fact when I do not have the evidence to back it up. I didn’t find it to be funny to have my words twisted and then posted online as if they were a fact.The student wasn’t interested in deleting the tweet. I went to my counselor that day and told her that I didn’t want him to get in trouble in anyway, but I just wanted the administration to ask him to remove it.I found it ridiculous that my questions in class had been twisted and posted online, for me to be judged by others for something I didn’t even say or believe.A few days later the tweet was still up and I went into my counselor’s office to ask her if the student’s own counselor had spoken to him as she said he would, and she said that he must have been busy proctoring SOL exams. He did not speak to the student in the few days he had available to do so.With the tweet already in the past, and seeing that the counselors didn’t quite care, I said “never mind, no need to have anyone ask him to take it down.” And that was that.Aside from some other inane things that happened in my junior English class, the one that stands out most is when my teacher’s excuse for not having her homework answers ready was that she woke up late and had to speed to work to get there on time.During my sophomore year of English I watched Netflix on my phone most of the time. It went over much smoother than any of my other English classes had. While watching Dexter, Lost, and Mad Men there was no one ready to ironically twist my words about religion and single me out as the character in the book we were reading had been. There was no one to make excuses about not having their work done which they were being paid to complete.In my sophomore year I was in my third year of Latin. The teacher and class likely saw me as a terrible student, which is why I assume they were surprised when I recited a Latin poem without it having been assigned to me.I just asked my teacher before the class started if I could recite However, even with my passion for Latin, the lessons and tests were starting to become really difficult. I wrote my Latin teacher an email regarding this, anonymously, and also wrote asking if she could cease her unnecessary sass with students. I mentioned this, none other than for the reason that I had been asked more rhetorical/sarcastic questions in that class than I ever had been in my life.In the email I recommended that we could build a “Latin Bible” of sorts, as a class, which would cover everything we had learned in previous years and the current one. Within a week of the email being sent we were each assigned a grammar topic. With that grammar topic we had to create a PowerPoint lesson which we would present to the class, as well as a worksheet for handing out.The heat also got turned down significantly in the class, as I mentioned it was extremely stuffy in there. And the sass virtually disappeared for the rest of the year.It seems that anonymous emails are extremely effective in getting yourself heard by teachers. If it wasn’t anonymous I figured she would have mocked me halfway through sharing my ideas in person, and if I signed the email with my name she wouldn’t have taken it seriously either.A letter signed Latin Lovers of Fairfax High School carried a bit more clout it seems. It was four pages long as well, and it was all read considering that everything I mentioned was taken into account.My lesson there was that you should never think a difficult class or teacher is not something you can improve. You can improve anything if you put your mind to it.In my case with Latin, all it took was creating a In my sophomore year of high school I emailed every single student and teacher within Fairfax High School (and accidentally other schools in the county), without permission for such an email blast, sharing a petition I had created in regards to That did not go over well with the technology team and the administration.They were very concerned with my unauthorized “libel” and “spam,” and I was made aware of just how *fucked I was for all of it.My Latin teacher also reported the email above to the technology team and I was escorted by three tech admins out of the class upon arrival to it.*My words.After contacting the superintendent making him aware that I had been watched by the technology team for months, which they told me, and they observed me breaking dozens of rules but didn’t report it to anyone, everything turned around very quickly.I got a meeting with the school’s nutritionist which the principal helped set up, and a direct apology from one of the tech administrators. The principal also explained to me that no one had intimidated me and that no consequences had been dealt to me: you know, aside from the three technology admins that talked about me being expelled and sued and gave me the papers above to hold onto to remind me that they had evidence of me breaking all of the highlighted rules.Meanwhile, students were selling drugs, having sex, and bullying each other in that school. I’m really glad that the administration was working so hard, printing out papers and highlighting infractions, which all led nowhere.If I had known they would have spent all that time watching me for months prior to the email blast because I was their only lead in a hack that leaked everyone’s grades, I would have politely stopped using school computers so that they could spend their time in more productive ways.In my junior year of history my friend said “what a faggot,” or something of that nature about me or someone else. The teacher had been in the conversation we were having and I asked if he heard what my friend said. He laughed it off and didn’t say anything.Then I said to my friend something along that lines of “that’s fucked up,” or “you’re a fag.” I remember that I had used some F-word in response to his own use of the word “faggot,” which my teacher yelled at me to get outside of the class for.Outside he began giving me a spiel about my language and I told him that my friend had said faggot and he did nothing but laugh. Then my teacher kept going on about his own little agenda, to which I was clearly not listening or interested in.His response to my non-interest was that the next time this happens we’re talking to an administrator and “have you written up.” I told him that we should go right then and there and that I would have him written up. He responded hot-headedly that he would write me up for being disrespectful and then I just told him again that I would write him up for singling me out.We figured that one out well because for the rest of the year he didn’t bother me again. He was actually a fun teacher and easy to get along most of the time.Although, for that history class we had to have an organized binder with all of our papers in it. After the first quarter was complete I got my grade for my binder which I had put a majority of papers into.For the second quarter I didn’t add about 80% of the papers handed out into my binder. I received a similar grade and was confused, so I asked for a rubric in how he grades the binders. His response was to look at the example binders from previous students, which wasn’t very helpful considering I got the same grade two different quarters for turning in completely different work. I think he was just eyeballing those binders.I would too if I made it mandatory for 140 students to turn in their studying materials and then made it mandatory for myself to grade those things.A year prior to AP History I was in World History II. That’s when my teacher gave a writing assignment about the pilgrims that came over to the United States, what they brought, and what they discovered when they got there. I gave my third grade brother a list of the things we had to talk about, showed him how to look them up on Wikipedia on my right computer screen, and then sat him down to begin writing about those things on the left screen.That experiment was interesting because the homework was graded with an A. I doubt the teacher even read it. I cannot understand why homework was being assigned in high school that a third grader could complete, let alone homework that a third grader completed and was graded with an A.At that point, I figure that looking into the pilgrims was more of a suggestion than a homework requirement. If anything, it was a homework requirement that day just so that someone could fill off a box that we had completed homework on the topic. Likewise, if a history binder is getting blindly graded I figure it’s just filling some sort of quota without anyone really questioning the benefits.Offering GT programs to elementary schools just because some states require that these programs be offered is silly. As silly as it is filling quotas just because.In World History II we also created SMART goals at the beginning of the year. These goals are defined as such:And the only trouble I had with them in World History II and virtually every other class that we created them in is that we never went back to see if we met our goals.We setup a system for measuring our progress, but we never were required to measure anything or reflect at the end of the year. If you ask me that’s a lot like the GT program: here’s an idea, check it out, work on it for a bit, and forget about it.My teacher from the third, fifth, and sixth grade also found S.M.A.R.T Goals to be “stupid.”Not to mention that this GOAL SYSTEM is all about making sure you understand life and your future in as an optimistic way as the perspective of my eighth grade English teacher, Mrs. Dunn. After all, you don’t want to set goals that are unrealistic within the GOAL SYSTEM. Or so, that’s what I’ve been told with my educational experiences that introduce S.M.A.R.T. Goals.In my World History II class I also asked if we could talk about the North Korea Crisis and my teacher said that her class wasn’t a philosophy class (something which I’ve heard from a lot of teachers across various subjects).I found it funny that she, along with many news agencies, derided the North Korean leadership for being weak and just wanting to make a fuss. I found it funny because the same exact thing had happened with Hitler during World War II. At first some said that he couldn’t gain political power, and he did. Then some said that Germany didn’t have the resources to finance an army, and they did. Then some said that they couldn’t hold their ground in other countries, and they did.Not to mention that Germany had a starving nation and a large army before the second World War began. In the same way that North Korea has a starving nation and one of the largest military organization, special forces, and submarine fleet in the world.They say history repeats itself, and I was watching history repeat itself in front of my eyes as an American history teacher made the same mistakes in underestimating and setting aside the possibility that North Korea is more of an enemy than a joke.During my freshmen year of P.E., I was kicked outside of the class for leaning against a wall at my desk or something of that nature. While outside I observed an angry senior punch a locker behind a girl while yelling at her. I opened the door to the class, which my teacher was teaching within, and I asked him to come outside because I need to speak to him.He ignored me.I asked him again if he could come out, that it was extremely important. He ignored me again.I closed the door and walked to the counselor’s office to let them know what I had just seen, as well as where the two that were still yelling at each other were.After the class was over the teacher came outside, annoyed, asking me what I wanted. I told him it didn’t matter anymore and he still wanted to know. So I told him and he was angry with me because “it’s your fault for not being clear. You should have said it’s an emergency.”Yes. Because that’s exactly what you want to say before you engage in the controversial act of interfering with the arguing of a couple. I told him I had said it was important, and that’s all that I really needed to say. I didn’t feel like looking like a “snitch” back then to the people who would have perceived it as such, nor was it my responsibility to associate myself with having observed and reported such a thing.He still blamed me for him not coming outside. He didn’t quite understand how it wasn’t my responsibility to say emergency or anything else I didn’t feel like saying in that special situation. Maybe if he hadn’t ignored me then he would have simply asked the class to wait a moment and come to see what I needed to tell him. And if it was just a distraction, he could have always written me up for interrupting the class. Just a thought anyways.Later in my sophomore year, my P.E. teacher did not know how many sit-ups or push-ups we had to complete in order to pass the minimum requirement. She said “don’t worry about the minimum, just try your best.”I would like to assume that she said that as a way to encourage people to do as well as they could. If you don’t set a goal then you’ll just keep going until you can’t anymore, right?But none of her other teaching styles were consistent with such a keen interest in our performance. At times she would leave the gym for a quarter of an hour, only to return and yell at us for having picked up a ball or something to play around with, without having been given permission. I was in track during my sophomore year and skipped P.E. a lot of times during the spring because it was my first class in the morning and completely boring.My teacher threatened that if I didn’t give my best in P.E. that she would talk to my coach. HA! Can you imagine that? I was bored in a mandatory P.E. class so she would talk to my coach to punish me in physical activity that I was in voluntarily and enjoyed. I wish I could say that I was the only person in track or other sports that skipped P.E. whenever they could because of how boring it was.Last I heard of P.E. at Fairfax High School, they were looking into turning the gym into an actual gym with weights and also keeping the basketball courts open for those that want to play. Essentially, they were looking to turn it into a place where students could pickup a ball and play without permission, and in which they could do whatever they wanted. For those that didn’t want to engage in weights or basketball, the idea was to make them walk around the gym.Last I thought of P.E. in high school, my thoughts were that “it’s freaking gym for crying out loud!”If you ask a high schooler today how much time gym teachers or security staff spend on their phones or iPads, some of which are school-issued, you’d be extremely surprised.It’s a fact that purchasing school iPads On this topic, it doesn’t seem like anyone knows what technology is best in an educational setting. Consider that in 2014, an L.A. District During my Precalc/Trig class in junior year, my teacher made some jokes regarding a male classmate and him “messing around” with other guys in the class. He was hands down the best math teacher I have ever had in school.I don’t understand why teachers make such jokes about guys, and he was certainly not the only one in high school to do so, when they wouldn’t about a teenage girl. I have never heard a male or female teacher joke about a teenage girl student messing around with any of the students in or outside her class.A teacher could be a homophobe or a gay-rights advocate advocate and nothing would justify making such jokes in a math classroom.I believe that teachers would serve the classroom best if they kept all of their biases, beliefs, and jokes at home. They would also serve their career best if they did not beginning teaching merely as a way to shape students in the image they see fit.There’s an interesting article published by a mother named Rachel Stafford on HuffingtonPost.com titled I remember in the fourth grade I was taken outside often by my teacher who would insist that I make eye contact with her while she spoke. She didn’t make me feel good and it was tough to focus on her eyes, as it would later be with Mrs. Dunn who insisted that I make eye contact with her while she put me down as well.After my experiences with such teachers taking me out and making comments about how I will amount to nothing more than a McDonalds worker, it became difficult for me to make eye contact with women. It wasn’t until later that I realized why that was the case and then began to actively undo the psychological damage, however minor, had been done unto me.While I was in Lee, Massachusetts waiting for a bus at the beginning of this year there was a girl that was misbehaving at a shopping center. She was about four to six years old, and her mother got up into her face to yell “do you want all of these people to see what you’re doing? Look at you. You look ridiculous.”I regret having looked because I accidentally made eye contact with the little girl being “reprimanded.” I was about to walk over and tell her that I didn’t give a shit about what she was doing and that her mother was just acting childish, but I didn’t follow through on that because I thought it would be inappropriate. Unfortunately, I imagine that the girl was embarrassed that I looked or judged her as she might have been taught to think.I don’t understand the fetish of some individuals to move others by a mode of the society’s wishes. I don’t understand it at all.What?If there was ever a program that should be invested into privately and publicly, it’s a certification for educators that they have been educated in the best way to treat other human beings.Prior to my English teacher using employment at McDonalds as an insult against me and my future, my mom used to make pizza at a pizza place. And I spread flyers for that place a few times when I needed money for the holidays to get a gift for my parents.I don’t understand what people’s fetish is with moving others through society’s wishes one bit. We’re used to hearing the “if your friends jumped off a bridge, would you do it too?” from parents, but we’re also used to hearing “the neighbor’s kid has an A in all her classes. Why can’t you be more like her?”It might be surprising to teachers, but none of these sort of ideas are appropriate in a school environment. Doing the the opposite of what everyone is doing, in order to be anti-dogmatic, is dogmatic. Doing what everyone is doing, because everyone is doing it, is also dogmatic.For the people that put together food at minimum wage in McDonalds, let them do their work in peace. For that people that will end up putting together food at minimum wage in McDonalds, let them live their lives in peace as well.I can’t imagine how hard it must be for people around the world to find their self-worth after being treated poorly by their peers, family, and teachers, and then ending up doing what those people looked down upon. But most of all, I can’t imagine why they should ever care.Today I would tell Mrs. Dunn that the approach she takes to teaching is not similar to the approach a creative chef might take to inventing or recreating a recipe from scratch. I would tell her that her approach is more akin to a factory line, a stack of burger buns and meat patties that she is throwing together, as she throws her words around, without much nutrition in either her teaching results or her thoughts.I would tell her that she should heavily reconsider her entire life, everything that she has been told, her own job, and the respect of others before continuing her rotation as another unhappy and underpaid cog in the system.I would say the same thing to every teacher that has complained to those that don’t teach that “they don’t understand,” “it’s really tough,” and so forth. I would say that teachers, as everyone else, have the right to pursue whatever they desire. When it is no longer in line with a teaching profession then they should explore other fields. And to determine if one’s passions are in line with teaching, teaching has to be clearly defined.And maybe that’s what the problem with the education system is today: not having a clear definition of what teaching is.I believe that teaching doesn’t involve harassment, killing creativity, encouraging dogma, buying into untested educational programs, bias confirmation, or proselytization.On May 11th, 2015, I visited Fairfax High School. During this time I would have been enrolled in my senior year of high school had I not dropped out.Upon my first visit at around 10 PM, the secretary emailed a few of my teachers asking if I could visit them. In the meanwhile I sat down and waited. Eventually a teacher replied back saying that I could visit him at noon when the class he was teaching got out.A police officer and a security guard looked me over while walking out of the office. Then they came back a while later and the guard told me that he had walked to all of my teachers’ classrooms and they were teaching. I thought it was pretty nice for him to have done this, but I was also told that I couldn’t wait there and that it would be best to visit them after-school when they are available.I got picked up for a little bit and I left my book bag in the car, which held some handcuffs I figured I should not bring back onto the property. Once I was in the office I told the secretary working there that the previous secretary had received permission from my teacher to visit.Then I printed out a visitor pass using a machine that records the driver licenses of all visitors.11:54 AM, right on time for visiting my teacher room. I got to the class of the teacher that I could visit just as his students were leaving, I said hello, and I sat down.Then I picked up a triangular prism and he showed me how it worked using a laser:I also asked my former teacher how to respond to people that give you advice, such as “join this thing or do this.” He said that over the years he has found that it’s best not to say anything to them, but to just nod and say thank you. Then he said he proceeds to do nothing with their unsolicited advice.He was telling me about some business in Virginia where you can visit puppies when the officer and security guard came into the classroom. They asked me what I was doing and I told them that I was visiting a teacher, to when the guard replied saying “I thought I told you they were all busy.”The police officer asked me where my bag was that I had with me before. Good thing I left it in the car I figured, and told them that I had left it before coming back. Then he asked what I was doing and I told him that I was visiting old teachers and he replied by saying “that’s weird.” He also commented to the guard that “he even has one of the sticker things,” referring to the mandatory visitor pass: it sounded as if he was annoyed or surprised that I was on the property with all the proper requirements.Then I was asked for identification, which I provided while asking if there was any problem. The answer from the officer was that “that’s what we’re going to find out,” and he walkie-talkied someone beginning the process to see if I was wanted.During that process he asked me if I live in Maine, since that was the state of my license. I told him that I am currently living in Georgia and he replied by laughing and saying “you’re all over the place aren’t you?”While the intensive search for my records was taking place, I began speaking with my teacher again about the puppy business and how it’s likely the owner was told it was a stupid idea before he invested in it. The same way Mark Mark Zuckerberg was told his idea was stupid, tying back the idea of how annoying unsolicited advice can be and how one should just go forward at all times.Once the officer was sure that I wasn’t wanted he gave me back my license and the guard began to speak to me. He asked why I came back, and I told him that this teacher said I could visit him at noon. He confirmed it with the teacher verbally.Then he told me that I was distracting him, and that this was the teacher’s preparation time in which he was planning lessons and grading homework. He told me that this was time the children of tax payers were paying for, and he repeated that two or three more times. He also let me know that I don’t go to the school and that I am essentially not to be on those grounds while it’s in session, because the resources available are not for me.I didn’t say anything about how my parents were still paying taxes in the area or how he was being a little weird about the whole thing. He told me that he’d already spoken with me about coming after school so that I’m not on the teacher’s time, to which I replied that I must have misunderstood him as saying to come after school since the teachers he spoke with were not available (thinking that he didn’t know the one I was visiting emailed the secretary saying that he was available).I left the grounds and came back to ask them another question. I noticed that they were talking to my teacher when I came back, and I tried to ask him later why they were a little on edge but he didn’t feel comfortable talking about the situation at all.Between being open about my Also, the last time I visited the high school I told my Latin teacher who had emailed her (me). Considering that she reported me in the past for the food petition, it wouldn’t surprise me if she reported me for the anonymous Latin email after my last visit to the school.If there is anything that I have learned in my 11 years in the American education system, it’s that I don’t mix well with it or the majority of teachers.Although the majority of my education system experiences were at times odd and unfavorable, there are many teachers that were inspirational in my life and shared a lot of their good merit with students. These teachers are as such:I love life and writing. This is a collection for articles about education.

My thoughts on I will have to disagree with you here. Based on the ten years I was in the classroom, children today do not have the requisite skills to be “trusted” with their voice and/or choice to their education and schooling. They are children — they are to be taught at a younger age and there could be an incremental transition to providing more independence to guiding them in the self-directed learning as they get older. The one thing that has to be included — children would need to hold themselves accountable and the current trend in education does not allow for that. Teachers are the ones to be held accountable.Children are lacking in basic critical thinking skills, a complete lack of creativity, and any sort of independent thought that were quite commonplace — to the point of being a basic assumption by teachers — back in my day as a student.Technology is a tool. Any attempt to make it more than that is a disservice to children everywhere. There is a saying in my current job — “Classroom is still king”— and that is still true. The interaction between teacher and student, regardless of age or circumstance, will always be the most crucial component of authentic learning.However, the use of technology is a mandatory part of everyday life; so the incorporation of technology into education is practically mandatory as students need to be exposed to it prior to the expectation of knowing how to use it. The advantage most children have today is they do not have an aversion to technology but an innate ability to adapt to it.Again, I am going to disagree with you here, albeit slightly. Unbridled, unrestrained competition at a young age is definitely not good for all learners.However, competition can be used to the advantage of most learners. Children are naturally competitive — and in an era of global competitiveness, teachers cannot shield them from competition completely. During my time in the classroom, we used the With minimal efforts, my students were scoring 90+% on or above grade level on the standardized testing for reading. I documented my “program” and was able to implement it in another classroom with almost the same results — that class was 85% on or above grade level.Competition has a place — it is up to the teacher to determine what role(s) it plays.This statement is one where tone does not come across well through a computer screen.As I wrote about If the intent of that statement is more of a social perspective, then it is providing students with a pre-determined excuse that we live in a caste-like society where your birth predetermines your role in society. I, for one, find this mentality to be infuriating. My elementary school was literally a fort — chain link fences with three rows of barbed wire pointing outwards at the top. Gates along the fence were always padlocked unless it was the prescribed recess time, and they were immediately locked once all of the students left for the day.If oppression and poverty are the determining factors your statements contends them to be; then I would still live in the same neighborhood that I grew up in — which would be impressive because I still remember being awoken one Sunday morning by a bulldozer demolishing the houses on the other side of the street from me.What is the alternative? A multi-disciplinary approach to learning can fit for some projects — but I think that would be better for older student as opposed to younger student.There has to be some foundational learning that has to occur before any kind of specialization could occur. The expectation a society should be able to make is that children who complete public school education is that they have a minimal — but consistent across all groups — set of knowledge, skills, and abilities to function as a productive citizen.Otherwise, what are we left with? A bunch of specialists incapable of using a can opener.Average Dad, Married, Two Teenagers, Will write about anything that interests me — Education, Politics, Sports, Movies.

“Here’s to the crazy ones. The misfits. The rebels. The troublemakers. The round pegs in the square holes. The ones who see things differently. They’re not fond of rules. And they have no respect for the status quo. You can quote them, disagree with them, glorify or vilify them. About the only thing you can’t do is ignore them. Because they change things. They push the human race forward. And while some may see them as the crazy ones, we see genius. Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world, are the ones who do.” — Steve JobsEnough said… But change is the only constant, and the people who want to bring about a change in the world; those who want to dent the universe literally have potentially dropped. Outta all the wonderful things, why this change? Who is to blame?With all due respect, I believe that it’s not just schools or the education systems around the world, it’s even us who deserve to take the blame because we aren’t standing up to the world and telling them that we can no longer tolerate the way education is being served to us. We need a change! Not just a mere change, but in fact, a Revolution!Well, I may not be in authority to say that, but do think about it.. I love doing root analysis of a given situation and let’s do one right now..Let’s trace down the roots of the modern education system:It all started with a need; a need of the British empire to control their colonies around the world. They needed a substitution for the present day Internet. So they decided to build a human chain around the globe, and how did they achieve this? Straight up, they created schools… What did these schools do? Well, they just took in toddlers and kids who had varying aptitudes, and made moulded them into lifeless people filled with hostility… C’mon! Like how boring is that? And how cruel is that to humanity? People were no longer in power to even think they could bring about a change, and how could they? They were ‘cheap labourers’ as our history or geography textbooks call them, who served the purpose of the dominant aristocracy. Everybody may have become clerks and officers by profession, but within, was slavery that remained uncared for… And over the years humanity has just tried to reinforce a broken system, or a system which is no longer required.And this is what I observed; that we are so adapted to this ‘meaningless melancholy’, if I may, that surrounds us, that if a person dares to stand up with a solution, a solution which has the potential to make this world a better place, then that person is ridiculed… And especially if you are young and you do so.. Well, true story! *chuckle*I recently got a letter from one of my dear friends on the last day of school. It read, “Everyone is a kid that no one cares about, you just have to keep screaming till they hear you out!” Now how true is that…Sir Ken Robinson once emphasised at a TED talk, that education is an organic process and not an industrial process..I really loved the way he compared the fast food model to that of the model followed by a Michelin star restaurant and later related it to the present day, ‘one size fits all’ model of education and told that it’s depleting our soul, just like fast food depletes our body. Kudos to that man, he truly inspires me.So, as a tribute to that legend let me shed some more light on ‘How Schools Kill Creativity’ with all due respect.It was World Environment Week, and all the students of all grades had the task to fill up their bulletin boards with related content. And I happened to visit a 4th Grade Classroom and gazed at the very sight of their board. I was mesmerised by the quality of work put up by those kids… I stumbled upon slogans which I never found on the Internet. All I saw on that board, was vivid imagination, innovation, fun, simplicity and soul… Later, I came back to my class and looked at our bulletin board… There was hardly anything! If something, it was some shoddy job and just printed matter on the lifeless board.And I when I went home, instead of studying for an assignment the next day, I pondered upon what I had seen. And I realised, that when our batch was in 4th Grade, even we used to put up some amazing stuff out there! And then I could truly relate to what Mr. Robinson said, but let me take the liberty to alter it to the need of the hour; A 7 year old, is not half a 14 year old.Well, the reason behind this, is that as we grow in that competitive environment, where grades become God, and cultivating ourselves in the mindset where good grades is the only thing that can fetch us a stable life, and what a pity it is to be judged by letters on a sheet of paper. Well, Albert Einstein defined education as the thing that remains after one has forgotten what they’ve learnt in school. He knew that his mediocre grades were not going to define his life.Margaret Mead once said,“My grandmother wanted me to have an education, so she kept me out of school.”How cool is that? We’d prefer to call it swag rather.. I’m not against schools here.. I’m not against anything… I’m in an odyssey to make this learning process a fruitful one.And like Mark Twain, I never let my schooling interfere with my education.“When students cheat on exams, it’s because our school system values grades more than students value learning” — Neil deGrasse Tyson, a world renowned astrophysicist.Well, perhaps one reason why I’m quoting so many people, is because they are people who have gone through this system and yet followed their hearts and have become successful in doing what they love to do and they are satirically pointing loopholes and flaws in the system that need to be changed…Nobody is ever successful in doing things that they are not passionate about.. And one important lesson I’ve learnt, is that if you are not willing to take risks and are always willing to play it safe, then one day, you’ll end up working for somebody who does.The roots of education are bitter, but the fruit is sweet. With all due respect, I strongly believe that Aristotle’s statement needs to be amendedMahatma Gandhi once said, “Be the change you wish to see in the World.”So on an ending note,I have been working on a project from 6th grade soon to be a startup, it’s called ‘Regards,learn | ∞A collection of awesome stories about education on Medium.com

In 2012, I was first introduced to concept of micro-finance and the impact this movement was creating across the world through classes I took at the Ivey Business School. I experienced this first hand when I traveled to a rural village called Zurzular in Honduras on a study trip in 2013. Here, a group of peers and I analyzed the coffee supply chain for this small village to determine how to eliminate the middlemen or “loan sharks.”We created suggestions that would increase the average income of the villagers, allowing them to meet their basic needs. However, these suggestions could only be put into action with a small capital injection for transportation costs, and education on how the supply chain operated. Over the course of this journey This experience further sparked my interest in micro-finance, so I decided to conduct research for a professor on small-scale entrepreneurship throughout Kenya. I discovered that many entrepreneurs had ambitious plans, but lacked access to the capital needed in order to scale their businesses. During these travels I also lectured a business course at the School of Finance and Banking in Kigali, Rwanda. Throughout my travels, I saw library shelves essentially bare and a lack of educational resources to adequately support the students I met.Kiva is a platform that allows people to lend money to low income/under-served entrepreneurs and students. This July T4C traveled to Ethiopia and Kenya to visit the universities who have received and will be receiving textbooks. We were able to meet countless students, faculty, and librarians who helped our team further understand the fast growing educational landscape. We will now strengthen our post-secondary partnerships in Africa, and take steps to ensure the efficacy through every step of the model. There will be changes in the near future to optimize this impact, and we will make sure to provide updates along this journey. Micro-finance is still something we are all very passionate about and we hope to work with student groups focused on global development.For every textbook donated, you positively impact students around the world. Book by Book. 

In the world of education, new faces rarely signal new policy.The United States will soon have a new Secretary of Education, and some are hopeful that having a former educator in the highest position of educational leadership for the first time in a decade will bring change to a failing education system.Let’s not count our chickens before they hatch.Earlier this week, Arne Duncan announced his resignation as Secretary of Education, and John King Jr., a former teacher, was named his successor. Since the creation of the Secretary of Education position in the Carter administration, only 2 of the 9 people to hold that office have been school teachers. King will be the third.Unfortunately, this pattern has been the hallmark of the past few decades of education policy, which has done little to close the achievement gap.If history is any indicator, King’s leadership won’t be without it’s fair share of controversy. King currently serves as the Deputy Secretary of Education, a post he was appointed to earlier this year, after having worked as New York State’s education commissioner since 2011. As commissioner, King was heavily criticized for a number of different policies.King came under fire was for a state-wide evaluation system rolled out under his guidance. In 2013, Carol Burris, a well-regarded principal of a New York school, Similar criticism unfolded around his implementation of Common Core standards in New York. Educators in New York State United Teachers, a powerful union, was not shy to express its discontent with King’s leadership. In a Many teachers recognize the dearth of educators in educational leadership positions — from superintendents to members of district boards of education across the country. In the Secretary of Education position, 7 of the 9 people to hold that office have not had K-12 classroom teaching experience. It’s concerning, because there is already a strong sentiment among teachers that their voice is not heard.The last educator who held the Secretary of Education office was Roderick Paige, who alongside George W. Bush, oversaw the controversial No Child Left Behind act. NCLB popularized the premise that bad schools were to blame for our educational inequities, and that they therefore must meet “Adequate Yearly Progress” — with “progress” being determined by student test scores. Schools that didn’t meet the bar would get shut down or their faculty expunged and replaced.NCLB required that 100% of students would perform at grade level on state tests by 2014. The idea gained a lot of traction, but failed in practice — last year, less than half of all student performed on great level, and the achievement gap is just as wide. The legislation is widely regarded as an example of the problems with one-size-fits-all-testing.King has taught in traditional public schools and in charter schools, as well as led a reputable charter management organization, Uncommon Schools.At the end of the day, King was recruited by the Obama administration, under which we’ve seen “Race to the Top,” a legislation that promised to dole out $4.35 billion dollars of federal funding to states that created certain education reform policies such as tying teacher performance to students’ test scores, shutting down or “turning around” schools, and creating more charters.This was met with dismay by many educators, who argued that such legislation was no different than NCLB in that it over-tested students with standardized assessments, promoted charter schools at the expense of supporting traditional public schools, and encouraged “gaming” of the system.It’s likely that King will continue the work that he and Duncan have done so far, and implement or double-down on similarly controversial ideas as NCLB and Race to the Top.One of the biggest complaints from King’s tenure in New York was his “tone deaf” nature.Teachers are the warriors on the frontline of the battle of educational inequity. They, day after day, see the challenges faced by their students and can articulate the increasing demands they face in their job.I hope King finds ways to empower teachers in their practice. Teacher accountability has, in many ways, demonized a noble profession and turned into a “gotchya” game. These days, there is often talk about boosting the prestige of the profession by increasing pay, which is great — but that can only happen after we respect teachers and support them, not threaten their careers and question their intentions.As a former educator, I also hope that federal education priorities align themselves with proven methods, be it leading research or empirical trends. Too often, it seems as though programs such as NCLB and Race to the Top experiment with our education system before having validated broad policy assumptions and hypotheses. Focusing on practices and pedagogy that work, and making sure that federal dollars are going where they are actually needed (to the lowest-performing students) would be prudent of the Department of Education.It’s great that King has been an teacher and has spent his whole life focusing on K-12 education. I hope that King’s greatest lesson from his time in the classroom is that teachers know best. If he chooses for his policy to be informed by educators, he’ll likely have a much more positive impact in his tenure than he did in his time in New York.Ed-tech startup co-founder 

I went to a panel on the ‘Evolution of Edupreneurship’ at General Assembly is a business and tech school on 2nd street in Santa Monica. Walking in, and after successfully negotiating a fist-bump with the guy on the front desk (later on I saw him demonstrating the moonwalk to another attendee), I noted that its polished concrete floors and exposed white beams seemed to be the perfect environment to bounce ideas around in. Its design reflects what it wants to achieve. This turned out to be a fairly prescient observation.My day job is publishing academic research, the thing that comes after high school exams have been passed, undergrad courses checked off, and PhD’s defended, but the conversation was as relevant to this as it was to education and business. How do you introduce risk into a system that prizes and rewards compliance? Parents and schools are nervous to embrace new methods of teaching for fear it will deny their kids a good GPA and a shot at a good college. Academics are nervous to explore areas of research that won’t get funded, or might deny them the holy grail of tenure. Businesses are nervous to invest in new ideas that diverge from the tried and tested path to profitability. Everyone’s got sweaty palms, and they’re worried about losing their grip on what they think is the good life.It’s something that So if the new way of doing things cherishes those who stick their necks out, how do we model an educational system that encourages us to do just this, rather than to retreat into our shells? This is where tonight’s conversation got really interesting. Panel chair Moss Pike made a compelling analogy with the urbanist movement, and the resurgence of downtown LA. He said that the current educational system is downtown LA fifteen years ago, a place that nobody wants to be, and that it needs to be How do we go about encouraging this mindset? Maybe one place to start is with design. General Assembly shows how architecture can be used to inspire creative thinking. It’s the right side of stark, it doesn’t get in the way, and its minimalism and openness encourages interaction, engagement, and discussion (not to mention fist bumps and moonwalks). As the panel said, we learn best when we’re being social, and educational spaces should facilitate this by serving to invite people in, and channel relationships.This isn’t an argument to turn the school system into a conveyor belt for Silicon Valley, and to swap Plato for Zuckerberg. The ideas expressed tonight have wide-reaching implications, and underlined that entrepreneurship isn’t limited to doing deals over beer pong and leading strategy sessions in flip-flops. The actual role of technology in all of this is itself somewhat uncertain, with some studies suggesting Thanks to Panel members:Vivy Chao: Co-founder Yang VenturesMike Carter: Director Engineering and Design at Archer School for GirlsPaul Way: Academic Technology Co-ordinator and Computer Science Teacher at Crossroads School, Santa MonicaSabba Quidwai: Director of Innovative Learning, USC Keck School of MedicineModerator: Moss Pike, Latin Teacher at Harvard-Westlake School and CUELA Board MemberPsychology publisher and traveler. Evidence-based everything. Tweets about science, places, business, and beer.

Information is excessively accessible nowadays: blogs, news, social networks, videos, articles, advertisements, games, and more, permeate the internet. We can now take College certificates serve as proof that you received formal education in a topic, but sometimes that proof is not indicative of how well you can apply that knowledge.Steve Jobs studied Calligraphy. And he managed to make Apple and popularize computers, with a range of beautiful fonts.Because of the Internet, memorization is becoming increasingly obsolete. No one needs to know specific dates or facts off the top of their heads; people can now pick up their phones and search for themselves.Before college, there were only books. Since ancient times, humans have written their thoughts in caves, stones, and paper. People would read books before universities existed. There was a greater emphasis on self-learning and experimentation. I’m not claiming doing experiments contributes more to learning than listening to a lecture, but I know it’s more fun to build a contraption than sit in a classroom for two hours.Colleges were built to bring people together and focus on certain kinds of learning. Unfortunately, college has diminished the emphasis on experimentation and self-learning, partly because of its hierarchical structure and its stress on the idea that failing is bad. The hierarchical structure in colleges of teachers and students creates a strict line of distinction between those who know and those who don’t know. The fear of doing something wrong discourages students to try completely new things and experiment with innovative solutions. At school we’re taught that there is a correct way of doing things and a path we have to follow, and while sometimes this can help us avoid past mistakes, it also discourages us from trying new solutions to problems because of the fear that they’re wrong.However, traditional colleges still have many advantages that online courses lack. Being around other people instills collaboration, different perspectives, and a combination of ideas. Humans will always naturally converge to communities. Being with other humans in the same room can’t be replaced by online learning. While online courses do provide a framework for self-learning at your own pace and an environment where it’s okay to make errors, the community component is still crucial and missing.However, a new framework is rising. The next wave of education might very well come from somewhere else. The hackathon framework for learning is gaining a lot of popularity. More and more universities and organizations are throwing these community based events known as Hackathons, where There are also rewards for what you build. There’s usually a selection process where the best-performing groups receive prizes ranging from iPad minis, to travel expenses for hackathons in other countries, to $10,000, to Zero-Gravity flights. Or even teddy bears for everyone.But the value gained from a hackathon is much more than just the prizes: it’s the people you meet, what you learn, and what you build.People currently use hackathons as a supplement to other forms of education. A group of college students get excited for an idea, go to a hackathon for a weekend, and come back without sleep but with their idea realized. Hackathons could become the biggest impact on education since the internet.For Competition is just one small part — and not the main focus — of the hackathon experience; many hackers attend to meet new people, network with potential employees, and learn more programming or hardware technologies. Feedback from Hack@Brown William Wu, a high school student that attended Hack@Brown included that “[he] almost jumped out of [his] chair in joy”; Taylor DeRosa, another hacker, wrote that “it was really fun and challenging to conceptualize and implement a project within such a short time frame”. There was a winning team composed all of freshmen that “had no real experience with Python before, especially with hosting it as a server. [they] found out about the Flask framework and somehow figured out how to combine it with the Javascript in less than 24 hours!”.Teams created projects ranging from a system to request health records electronically, to a location-based borrowing platform, to a multiplayer game where the whole crowd at the demo presentation joined, to a program that reads stock data that looks for positive and negative performance and generates a song, to a data-visualization interface that lets you traverse information as nodes in a graph in a 3D environment with your hands.Students came out of the event feeling that there is no limit to what they can learn together as a community. And build things they thought they couldn’t do.A record 1,500 hackathons around the world are planned for this year, 2015, up from just a few dozen in 2010, and their focus is broadening from developing lucrative apps to solving problems for an array of industries including dental, fashion, immigration, transgender and social justice. And although hackathons probably won’t replace universities and online education altogether, it may be time for institutions to create new curriculums and education systems that mimic hackNY Fellow ’15 Brown ’18 Hack@Brown Make. Play. Learn.

Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush is one of a half-dozen Republicans confirmed to take part in The Seventy Four’s election summit Aug. 19 in Manchester, New Hampshire. Bush is perhaps the best known of the Republican candidates for his education advocacy.He promoted the Common Core and what is sometimes called “the Florida formula” or “A+ Plan for Education,” a series of policies including vouchers, school grades and online learning, that he championed while governor from 1999 to 2007.In advance of the event (which will be live-streamed here), here are four things to know about Bush’s record in Florida and his K-12 platform. (Don’t forget to check out Florida had a voucher program for children in failing schools; the state Supreme Court overturned it in 2006 on the grounds that the state constitution bars state financing of a separate private education system,The state instead implemented a system of vouchers funded by businesses, which then received equivalent tax credits. Teachers and others sued to block the new program, but a judge Valerie Strauss, a blogger for The Washington Post, in an “Bush is correct that Florida’s children benefited from his time in office if children graduated high school at the end of fourth grade, and only evidence of general reading skills mattered. For most other independent test-score measures, the picture is less impressive,” Dorn said.After he left the Florida governor’s mansion in 2007, Bush formed the Foundation for Excellence in Education. Critics point to emails obtained via a public records request that they say show an improper relationship between the foundation, its offshoot organization Chiefs for Change (a group of current and former state education secretaries committed to the same agenda), and the businesses backing the foundation. The group “has been criticized as a backdoor vehicle for major corporations to urge state officials to adopt policies (such as digital learning) that would enrich the companies,” according to The Post.Bush stepped down from the group in January (Condoleezza Rice is now at the helm), and the foundation released donor information for all of those who gave more than $5,000,Many of the same individuals and foundations that donated to the Foundation for Excellence in Education are also supporters of The Seventy Four.Keeping Score, Election 2016: Check out Bush is one of two candidates in the GOP field (with Ohio Gov. John Kasich) to still publicly support the Common Core State Standards. He fielded, some say deftly, a question in Thursday’s first Republican debate from Fox moderator Bret Baier about whether he thought those opposed to the Core were a “fringe group of critics.”“No, I don’t. And I don’t believe the federal government should be involved in the creation of standards directly or indirectly, the creation of curriculum or content. It is clearly a state responsibility. I’m for higher standards measured in an intellectually honest way, with abundant school choice, ending social promotion. And I know how to do this because as governor of the state of Florida I created the first statewide voucher program in the country, the second statewide voucher program, in the country and the third statewide voucher program in the country. And we had rising student achievement across the board, because high standards, robust accountability, ending social promotion in third grade, real school choice across the board, challenging the teachers union and beating them is the way to go.” And Florida’s low income kids had the greatest gains inside the country. Our graduation rate improved by 50 percent. That’s what I’m for.” The Bush campaign pushed the answer out to donors and others post-debate, Photo by Getty ImagesThe Seventy Four is a non-profit, non-partisan news site covering education in America.

Ben Horowitz said “Be prepared to be ridiculed” and this is tough in a society where status matters so much. What might encourage more people to try and build startups is a shift in perception on status.If you told people you’re doing a Phd and an MBA you would be given due respect. While startups may not need the certificate, we are partly programmed to think of levelling up so lets self-certify a little :)Have you learned something about coding, designing, marketing, selling, hiring and raising finance in your first few startups? Congratulations, you’ve graduated the base startup degree.You have small but sustainable growth and ramen profitability? Congratulations, you’ve passed the Masters course. Even getting to this stage is frikkin hard.You’ve grown sustainable revenue or been acquired? Congratulations, you now have a Phd.You’ve done this more than once? Welcome professor, please mentor us.We’re currently doing a masters course with Recently gone bananas building stuff

What is the real price of eliminating community college tuition?Earlier today, I read an article that attempted to explain why community college should not be free. Written by While I typically agree that ‘free’ often makes those things with value far less valuable — or worse; worthless, I’m not sure you can apply that same notion to education.Sure, a “free” couch on Craigslist might not get taken as fast as one that’s listed for $50 — regardless of the quality of the couch. This has been tested. But this has more to do with perception and conditioning as it relates to physical things. People see free as meaning ‘poor quality’ — and no one wants a filthy couch, not even for free. I would argue that this same logic is not equally applied to experiences, and definitely not to education.In offering community college for free, there’s still a significant cost. And I’m not referring to the cost passed on to taxpayers. Eliminating tuition does not remove the time commitment for someone to get through a college program. That time is the true cost when tuition is eliminated.There are many countries with free, or almost free education — Sweden, Finland, Norway and Germany, to name a few. The German government even funds the education of foreigners. And in NYC, Cooper Union at least used to be “open and free to all.” And only because of financial issues did they begin to require 50% tuition coverage from students.It would be difficult to argue that all the students that went through these education systems did not feel motivation, appreciation; did not put in hard work.In comparison, since 1985, US college have increased costs by roughly 500%, and tuition fees keep rising. College tuition is simply out of reach financially for a large part of the population. At the same time, finding talent is becoming increasingly competitive for most businesses. This is a gap that could easily be reduced.For the most part, I skipped college. I’m a self-taught, self-made entrepreneur, and have put in a huge amount of blood, sweat, and tears to build my own career. But I can’t relate to the notion that my story should have any bearing on whether free education should or shouldn’t be made widely accessible. And I don’t agree that the risk outweighs the reward.If the concern is a lack of motivation and a low completion rate, create an enrollment process that weeds out uncommitted applicants; penalize those that quit. Give them a single shot.If the concern is a lack of appreciation, so be it — let’s get more people educated. They’ll appreciate it more when they’ve landed a job that pays more than a living wage.If the concern is that free education eliminates hard work, well that’s just crazy. If students are motivated (see above) they’ll put in the effort. Leave it to the educators to manage this risk, as they do today.The best case outcome? Free community college helps to increase the skills of a broad and diverse population. And that can only be seen as a good thing.In David’s defense, making something ‘free’ — like a couch, a TV, a jacket — doesn’t always make it appreciated. But it would be ridiculous to apply that same logic to education, and the ability for people to gain access to upward mobility by committing themselves to a college program.All things are not equal.Creative, Strategist, Entrepreneur,  Eternal Optimist. Founder  CEO of 

“…one that can be taught and learned.”ThisI’m not here to knock MBA school; it was invaluable to me not just for the lessons, but for the connections and experiences. MBA school will make you a wiz with cap tables and balance sheets, you’ll learn your way inside and out of a Gantt chart and income statement. By the end you’ll be cranking out commercialization and marketing plans in your sleep. You’ll meet all the people that we’re “just like you” not so long ago and you’ll be surprised that many even have useful wisdom and relevant insights. If you’re lucky you’ll find a business partner or a lifelong advisor while you’re there.But know that this is In MBA school there’s no decision modeling class that will tell you what to do when your product isn’t ready in time for launch, forcing you to either cancel your widely promoted event — or have it anyways, only to announce a product that hasn’t arrived yet. But you can sure bet your product launch will teach you that.In MBA school there’s never any negotiations seminars on losing a position you loved and created in the organization you helped grow and build because of your own mistakes — nor do they cover the futile things you cando or say to try to get it back. But you can sure bet your industry will teach you that.There’s also no finance lecture on watching your cash runway slip away or your venture capital fall through, leaving you to create a plan with a fraction of the money that still works. But you can count on your market to teach you that.And there’s definitely no crisis management session on what to do when a doctor tells you 3 months after you launch your company that you have a cancerous tumor that needs to be cut out — and that you have to pause that project you’ve been pouring your time and effort into. But you can sure as hell count on life to teach you that kind of thing.If you want to go to MBA school, do it. It will be valuable and it will be worth your time. You’ll likely be a better entrepreneur for it. But if you don’t or if you can’t, don’t worry. The world you live in is willing and eager provide you those lessons (and many that are much more valuable) free of charge. The decision doesn’t really matter because you’ll be attending the School of Hard Knocks either way, and that’s where you’ll find out if you actually are a good entrepreneur.Because like the Sistine Chapel, although entrepreneurship is a process it’s never So go ahead and learn the process, but know that the School of Hard Knocks will never be about the process. It will always be, as it has been, about JFDI.Startup Founder. Created 

At some early point in my 4-year stint as a film student at the University of Miami, in Florida, an advisor explained I’d have to dual-major in a field outside the school of communications. This seemed a perfectly reasonable request of the school to make; after all, the advisor said, as communication students we needed something to communicate about.The requirement was largely the reason, at some point during my sophomore year, I decided to double-major in Fine Art Photography. I aspired one day to be a director of photography, and figured that having an overwhelming command of cameras and how photography worked would be the most beneficial field of study for me. I also have always had a serious passion for technology, gadgets, and photography, so it seemed the most apropos fit.Let me be clear in stating that I loved and still cherish the experiences and education I took away from collegiate-level photography courses. I made some of my closest friends and took with me knowledge that serves me to this day. The photography courses I took in college taught me the conceptual basis, science and history of photography. They forced me to get out and take pictures.They did little to prepare me for the reality of the working photographer: how to market oneself, network with gallerists, send out press releases, file taxes or even just do simple invoicing for commercial clients. My courses were a proverbial cruise ship, taking me from port to port until I had to disembark, suddenly without much of a life raft or row-boat to call my own.I’ve come to the conclusion over the last few years of thinking through this issue that it is probably not University of Miami’s failing, but in how we come to think of art education on the whole. While in school, the vast majority of my time was spent learning to use, and using, a camera. Playing with camera equipment as much as possible makes a lot of sense on the surface; as a director of photography or photographer, the camera is your primary tool, right?Having been in business for several years now (and experiencing the corresponding highs and pitfalls), I can assure you that the camera is not your primary tool as a photographer. Sure, some of the more seasoned, veteran film photographers offload more menial tasks to a stream of assistants, but starting out resources are limited. Instead, a connected computer, the ability to market oneself, and the will to continually execute thoughtful new projects vastly outweighs any ability to create and edit a perfect picture.A ‘perfect picture’ is an oxymoron that escapes definition. With nearly 1-trillion photos estimated to be taken globally by the end of this year (With the proliferation of mobile photography and video, and the corresponding plethora of accessories that accompany the field, it is less expensive and more accessible than ever to document the world around us. Ever since news organizations started paying for grainy, low-resolution natural disaster footage in the 2000s (think videos of Katrina and the Indian Tsunami that killed 300,000+ people), citizen journalism has become the broadcast de-rigour.And much like citizen journalism has become mainstream phenomena in the last ten years, so too has citizen fine-artist. Instagram, Facebook, and other social media have allowed those with a good eye and a smartphone to become instant, global sensations based on a thoughtful concept, some raw talent, and the will to execute. The most recent example of this is Humans of New York, started in the summer of 2010 by Brandon Stanton. Brandon’s pictures are good (some of them, magnificent), but his success lies in his authentic, accessible concept and ability to broadcast the stories of the people he captures. HONY has over 14 million followers on Facebook, raised $1 million for a Brooklyn school’s art program, and been written up in any well-regarded news outlet. By all accounts, Brandon Stanton is one of the most successful photographers alive today. How much of that is due to his use of the camera, and how much due to his creativity, passion and drive?Ultimately, photography education should focus less on the camera, the gadget itself. In fact, as the worlds’ population becomes more digitally inclined and our cameras more intuitive, the less we have to focus on how to use the equipment. There should still be study into this; I am by no means advocating the abandonment of proper composition, exposure, the basics of photo editing  manipulation. As our photographic technologies improve at such a rapid pace, we should continue to experiment with gigapixel-resolution images, virtual reality, and other forms of relatively so-far unexplored photographic territory.However: the futures of photography and journalism, communication, art, on the whole, belong to those who have the ability to generate truly creative thought and broadcast that most effectively to a global audience. The future of photography education needs to be refocused on timeliness, relevance, and original creation, enabling the unique perspectives of the generation who dare create it.Creative Director // Digital Marketing, Photography  Design 

O n Wednesday, the latest results of the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) — the gold standard, low-stakes test given to a representative cross section of 4th and 8th graders across the country — will be released. Virtually every news outlets, including The Seventy Four, will cover the numbers, which makes sense since the scores are important and have some limited value for policymakers. But if history is any guide, for one day the educational world will collectively lose its mind over NAEP, engaging in what Mathematica researcher Steve Glazerman Here are four reasons why NAEP results should be interpreted very cautiously:1When the 2013 NAEP scores were released, Secretary of Education Arne Duncan pointed to the relatively large student “gains” in Washington, D.C. NAEP scores, Unfortunately, such claims are entirely unsupported. The basic reason is a wonky, boring but crucially important one: NAEP scores, on their own, offer no comparison (or “control”) group by which to judge specific policies or even packages of policies. Remember eighth-grade science class? To make causal inferences, there must be both a treatment group and a control group.As an example, let’s say Wednesday brings good news in the form of higher NAEP scores. Reformers will claim their policies are working — but how do we know? Maybe scores would have been even higher if a different set of policies were pursued. Maybe scores went up for reasons entirely unrelated to reform policies. We simply can’t say.2Student achievement is based on everything that has happened in a student’s life before taking the test.We tend to think of schools as driving test scores because students take tests and formally learn academic content in schools. Indeed, schools have an extremely important impact on student learning, but out-of-school factors have an even 3In the coverage of NAEP scores, we will almost surely hear about some state whose students “showed the most growth.” For example, in 2013, the Washington Post This may seem like an academic point, but it raises yet another problem with trying to make inferences about policy based on NAEP: demographic changes among students tested 4I can guarantee that the NAEP results — regardless of what the actual data are — will be used by commentators to reinforce their previously held policies positions. That people will use the same data to reach opposite conclusion is an indication that we shouldn’t read too much into said data.Advocates will surely declare “[State X, which had ‘good’ results] did [Policy Y, which I already like]; therefore everyone should do [Policy Y].” If scores show improvement reformers will say, “This shows our policies are working — full speed ahead!” If there aren’t improvement reformers will say, “This shows why our schools are in desperate need of reform — full speed ahead!”Similarly reform skeptics will gleefully point to disappointing results as evidence that reform policies are failing. But if scores rise, they will People believe what they believe; NAEP scores won’t — and frankly shouldn’t — change this. But can we just drop the charade?This is not to say that NAEP scores are useless. They are genuinely important indicators about whether students across the country are learning more math and reading than past students. And although raw data cannot be used to judge specific policies or policymakers, it is absolutely reasonable to make In turn, NAEP scores have been used by researchers with careful, statistically rigorous designs to test the efficacy of certain policies. (For example, much of the So, yes, although some rumors The Seventy Four is a non-profit, non-partisan news site covering education in America.

Thanks Tim, you write a great thought provoking article here.You write about a pattern of impending changes and shifts. I read it with Esko Kilpi’s Take education for that matter (perhaps the most controversial area of discussion). The rise of massive open online courses (MOOC) is a case in point. What happens when universities negotiate with individual or consortia of MOOC providers? Apply the same framework of a common core governing decentralised network to provide “service”. MOOC network will provide education as a service. The universities provide the outcome (degree). What happens to the student experience of the campus life? (what happens to the “being driven” experience in Uber?)The shift is uncomfortable, and will call for restructure. Restructure of our ways of thinking about the world. It is sure an exciting transition phase in human civilisation! As they say in China, may we live in interesting times!Epidemiologist. Professor. Doctor. Environmentalist. Dad. Indian. From Sheffield, New Zealand.

The world has seen a remarkable revolution in the past century. With the creation of computers, humans have equipped themselves with the most powerful tool in the history of mankind. The Internet connects all of us and provides an endless amount of information at our fingertips. In this new world, where success often is a result of the individual’s capabilities and knowledge, While there are problems in all levels of the education system, the root cause is found in elementary schools. The huge knowledge gap between what’s expected from students when they commence high school and what they actually know is the biggest obstacle to their success. Therefore, the focus should be on improving the elementary school system first, as the effects from this would affect the following levels.There’s many ways education could (and should) be changed. Some of the more basic ideas include that only the brightest and most motivated people should get the opportunity to teach, and their pay should truly reflect the importance of their job. The curriculum should be digitized and extensively updated. The courses should be relevant to the present, and answer the needs and requirements of industries, and organizations. ++++++However, educational spending accounts for roughly 141 billion of the 3.5 trillion federal budget (2014), the industry employs 3.8 million people, enrolls roughly 50 million students each year, and is responsible for the management of more than 100.000 schools. In other words, we cannot expect comprehensive and immediate changes. The necessary changes will require long and enduring processes. Nevertheless, theres one thing that’s certain, we need to start the change process sooner rather than later. Otherwise, not only will our children and students abstain from the true purpose of the school system, but the US workforce will consequently continue to lose ground to almost every other industrialized nation and the economy will, as a result, suffer greatly.After comprehensive analysis and considerable thoughts, it becomes clear that one aspect of the educational system could be changed relatively easily and at a low cost in terms of time, effort, and monetary investment. Specifically, I am talking about the concept of JIs it really beneficiary for these two kids to begin in the same class or are they going to end up like the kids in the illustration below - unmotivated?Imagine if they took a brief test as part of their enrollment process. The purpose would be to get an overview and understanding of their skills and interests, so the school could place them in the classes that best matched these. Consequently, this might lead Jenny to start in the 3rd-grade in math, 2nd grade in English, 1st grade in music, and so on.First of all, the pupils would be placed in classes where the curriculum matched their previous knowledge. As a result, they would be less likely to lose motivation due to either a lack of challenge or being taught concepts that were over their head. Motivation is — according to studies — the single most important factor for individuals to keep their focus and succeed in anything. Since children have shorter attention spans than adults, keeping them focused and motivated is crucial for their continual commitment and interest in school. Ostensibly, the biggest benefit would be not having students confined to one class level in all subjects.The pupils would not be divided by age and grade level anymore. This would help to decrease bullying, as this often is a result of older students picking on those in grades below. Moreover, bullying as a result of “stupidity” or “nerdiness” would also decrease since most students in the respective classes would be on the same competence level. A fair argument would be that this change would only lead the bullying to transfer from between classes to between age groups, as 10-year-olds might end up in classes with 13-year-olds. However, the highly increased social networking among the student accompanied by this change would likely balance this out. With several different classes, the students would greatly increase their social network and be less dependent on the 20 or so people in their “main”. Consequently, having more classes would greatly increase the likelihood for pupils to connect with like-minded people (and hopefully lifelong friends). This would also serve to decrease bullying in the school as the pupils would have larger networks and be more connected.Further, this would also lead to a fairer distribution of the teachers time between the students. Today, 80% of a teachers “council-time” is allocated to 20% of the students. These students are normally the ones that are having problems following the content of the course. This negatively impacts the dynamic in the class and the rest of the students.More classes would also mean more class principals. Optimally, each teacher would only be concerned with one subject -which they were truly passionate about — and thus have several classes within that domain, like in high school and college. With more teachers to relate to and connect with, the students would get a better follow-up and the parents would also have more connection points and, as a result, be better informed about their kid’s progress and development.Lastly, this rearrangement of classes would — if done correctly — greatly improve the chances for students to gain the knowledge requisite for a high degree of success in high school and beyond - basically the whole point of elementary school.Personally, I believe the entire concept of classes is outdated and that they shouldn’t exist at all. Rather, the students should follow a progress model — something similar to what you find in online education today. Applying gamification and “active learning” to the curriculum has shown great results and is a far better way of assessing and engaging students than grades and “preaching” teachers. This model also resembles that of Elon Musks new found school, Ad Astra, which he started as a reaction to the current education model, and will probably yield much higher results. Unfortunately, it is not realistic to assume that such dramatic changes will happen within education anytime soon. Rather, smaller incremental changes are far more likely. Hence, we should focus on small and easily implemented alterations with potentially high impact. The important thing is to start this process as opposed to continuing the path of the past century.

Luckily for those that still have an appreciation for science, history, geography or simply understanding how stuff works we have the following gems on Youtube. Here is a selection of the very best.And here is a quick list of the top educational channels in spanishFrom Medellín in Silicon Valley, sharing my startup experiences. CEO  Co-Founder 

Teachers need to be part of the conversation about rethinking what is possible in education and student achievement. I appreciate the Department of Education’s Teach to Lead initiative — I think that leading from the classroom can empower the voices of teachers. Teachers are designers, teachers are leaders, and teachers are innovators. Let’s make sure their voices are heard.Educator. Passionate about d thinking, tech,  teaching Ss to be global citizens. Google Certified Innovator | National Board Teacher | Bullis Charter School

This is a sore spot for almost every educational system!I have understood this when I left my Humanities-based high school curriculum to pursue a Bioengineering degree; I have faced quite a lot of setbacks, delays, personal crisis, etc. before reaching my goal; and I wonder if a more practical, experience-based learning could have helped me.Diplomato in Lingue, ho lottato per la Laurea in #Bioingegneria! #OpportunitySeeker per #Innovazione e #Lingue; cambierò il Mondo, appena avrò capito come fare!

The 21st Century is an exciting time to be alive. We are preparing to launch a mission to Mars, we have made convenient advances in electric cars and we have mastered education …. almost.Education is derived from the greek word Today, as a society, we have outlined basic life skills that our children need to be “good citizens.” We have only been running this experiment on systematic provision of learning for 150–200 years. This system was an effective way to “educate” the masses and prepare children for work in the factories. Education in many parts of the world has not adapted. The system we developed stopped evolving shortly after the beginning of the 20th century.We have an education system due to the increasing needs of skilled laborers in the Industrial Age. 150 years ago, Americans began to condense into the cities. Farmers, herders and other rural professionals moved into the city where they could make a better living for their families. The best way to meet the demands of the factories and manage the city’s citizens was to create a system that would prepare them for work in the factories, the main source of employment at the time. As America progressed through the industrial age and several world wars, subjects like math and science became the most important in the general education of the masses.Unfortunately, the method we use to distribute this information focuses on rote memorization, long hours of study and standardized testing. We now have conducted a couple of decades of research that shows that these methods are not as efficient as they used to be to teach the masses. Ironically, the methods we have discovered work better with our human psyche are methods closer to the methods of the Ancient Greeks.When the Ancient Greeks focused on developing and “drawing out” the potential of the pupil, they had discovered something very critical to the way humans learn. Humans are pack animals regardless of whatever your introverted friends say. Even they need to be around others once in a while. Most interaction is social and our communities growth is often a variable of the recurrence of social exchange. Humans learn about the world around them in order to understand it, and this understanding or development of perspective helps us find common ground. We then use this common ground to connect with others in our social circles. Welcome to human applied behavior 101.Research shows that we learn better through failure and practice. Assigning grades and asking for information to be memorized so that they may pass a test fails to ask the student why that information is important. This is the difference between someone who learned about a subject and someone who “studied” all the information on the subject. Failure forces you to ascribe lessons for the future and your experience shapes your understanding of the problem for the next attempt.I could go into political commentary on other aspects of our educational policy in America, like the passing of No Child Left Behind, but that’s outside the purview of this post.We have a ton of college graduates who received a robust education, but are not educated. On average, graduates do not pick up another book for pleasure after college for 10 years. This is just one habit that has developed as a side effect of our schooling system that encourages students to look for answers from those above them. If not it comes out in the form of consistent feedback.Another important aspect to learning how to learn is trying new things. This helps anyone by creating new experiences. A liberal arts education is supposed to expose you to many new ideas. Unfortunately, the issue is that sitting in a lecture hall as a professor delivers a debate between him and himself over the writings of Socrates versus Plato, this does little to commit insights into long term memory. It’s also well known now that writing versus typing notes commits more to memory. Learning every subject using the same method increases the likelihood of complacent studying. You memorize information but don’t question it or think about why things work the way they do. This leads to being massively overwhelmed and confused when you enter the “real world,” because often college graduates first jobs are also the first place they were expected to adapt on a moment’s notice.The more topics you actually involve curiosity into the process, the broader your base of knowledge, the wider your experiences, increases the amount of people you can connect with.As discussed earlier, the 21st century is an awesome time to be alive. We have tons of technology being developed every day and we find new ways to connect with each other using the relatively new access to wide spreads of information via the internet.However, technology was designed to make our lives better, and it has, but it also has contributed to the epidemic of short attention spans. In short, everything has its advantages and disadvantages. In a world of distractions, it is important to develop a system or series of questions you can ask anytime you are presented with a big decision.The goal is to understand the underlying patterns of how everything works. Better information on how certain systems work leads to better and faster decision making.Again, the more experiences you can obtain in different ways of thinking and how professionals in other industries solve specific problems will literally increase your intelligence.In order to create this understanding and build systems that relay this information easily, you have to focus on contextual knowledge. Surprisingly, if you don’t relate information you receive in your studies back to your life, you are bound to forget it later on. This is common sense that is not so common. In school you are taught to listen to and revere your teacher, they will give you the fruits of knowledge if you just sit and listen.If you questioned the teacher, you not only jeopardized your standing in class, but also your reputation in the small ecosystem that made up your classroom. High school students are more than content sitting through classes waiting for the teacher to diligently give them the answers without ever thinking about why or where the information comes from. Now, I’m not saying that students go through their entire schooling without questioning at least something, I’m saying that students are more willing to accept whatever their professors tell them point blank.It would be inappropriate for me to ignore the other side of this argument, so I will touch on these points real quick. College is about more than that piece of paper, it teaches you (hopefully) about many life lessons in a very short amount of time. Many classes are sold as part of a broad, diverse curriculum, but the underlying reasons you must take courses you may not use in the future are valid. For example, the calculus and statistics courses you took in your finance degree are less useful from a base of knowledge perspective. We are in the middle of a huge automation period. There are software programs that conduct most of this analysis and routine research for us now. The reason these courses are important is because you are forced to think critically and learn how to creatively implement solutions to problems you may encounter. For this reason, college is still a valuable education resource. Needless to mention that some skills are learned best by deliberate practice and study that can only be done in a structured environment. This can be true regardless of different learning styles.Critical social and character building skills are developed during this time. I’m not saying that students couldn’t develop habits that are critical for success as an adult outside college. However, that environment provides support increasing the likelihood of those habits sticking. One curiosity of mine is the social and personal development changes between individuals who graduate from college and those who took a less conventional path. The truth of the matter is that humans learn best from interacting with the world around them. Our experiences shape our understanding and influence how we choose to behave in the future. As higher education becomes an increasingly more sensitive subject for average Americans, alternatives continue to pop up and beg the question. Is higher education in its current form meeting the demands of the real world?The structure of our education system overall has been a hot topic over the last 5 years. The recession has shattered most, if not all the false sense of security that college once claimed. In order to meet the ever-increasing demands of our globalized economy, we have to restructure the system we have set in place. Many of the alternatives are not competing as a bonafide alternative, but rather are the realization of different social movements in the education space. As I wrote this piece, MIT announced in a If you are a college student, here are some things you need to know from someone who’s your age, been around the block and then some. Stop beating yourself up about which major is the right one. That’s a horrible way to not answer your question at all. On average, most graduates don’t work in the field they studied in school and the Bureau of Labor Statistics If you are on a self-directed learning path, don’t be afraid to jump on a campus if a class really will help you learn a skill. Information is so cheap and it is all over the place. Appreciate the different struggles that face your peers in college and ask for help when you need it. Education should be about community and making progress. Focus on choosing opportunities to fail and make mistakes, this is part of why people experience unprecedented success. Nothing is made overnight and you cannot succeed without making a few mistakes, big or small, first. So go take that calculus class, attend clubs on campus, socialize with other students in your area, and learn about others experiences.This is the Art of Self-Directed Learning and it is the future of Education.UnCollege Fellow, Ambitious Freelance Marketer, 

American Violence and EducationI can’t make things out anymore. I don’t know what we’re doing. American culture is upside down and, as an educator, I have no idea what to do, what to say, how to find “the teachable moment.” I’m lost. I suspect we may all be feeling lost. The world outside the classroom is way too big, too harrowing, too confusing. Death and suffering have become all too common. It seems as if we’re operating in two distinctly different worlds, one is inside the classroom where we theorize, study, calculate, ponder, the other, outside the classroom, that world we dare only glance at from time-to-time, is brutal, relentless in its inhumane insistence that life is cheap.In a course I’m working through Brent Easton Ellis’ disturbing, post-modern 1991 Gothic novelBut these worlds are clashing.On October 3, a Saturday, an 11-year-old boy shot and killed an 8-year-old girl, in Tennessee, because she wouldn’t show him her puppies. The 11-year-old pulled out his father’s 12 gauge shotgun and shot the girl dead, hitting her square in the chest, As my students look for my protection from a text, Ordinarily I’d say this is surreal, but it’s beyond bizarre and unreal now. It’s Can we explain this to ourselves? To our students?It’s no understatement to say that the political system is broken. What’s going on? Can we look inside our educational model, our system, ourselves to come up with reasonable approaches that might determine creative paths we might take towards a healthier, more productive, and certainly more humane civilization? Can we collaborate with others on this — government, the legal system, healthcare and private citizens?I received an email from a distraught mother following the outcome of her son’s first advising session at Then she goes on to list, literally list, as I will do here, her son’s virtues:There’s more, but you get the drift. Most 18–20 years can do this; he already has been admitted to Middlebury; and the fact that this reads like extras on an already luxurious car falls short on the desperate mother.On the other end of the educational tree I get a text from an alumna (not a Middlebury alumna, another college I taught at; I’ve known this alumna for over 20 years) who is a principal at a Newark, New Jersey, middle school. She too was desperate. But her despair was about life and death. Her text included 6 images and a short, 3 minute video. The images were of heroine vials and needles strewn about the only green spot next to her school. The video, in which you hear the school children’s voices playing in the background, is shot through this principal’s office window, and it’s of a young man preparing his “works” and shooting up, again in the only green spot next to her school.This principal has reached out to the police, to the superintendent, to her committee person for her Ward (the “Brick City” is divided into 5 geographical wards). Then, as all this is whirling around me, I see a new study, using a game, suggesting that The Yale University game-experiment is about inequality. Dacher Keltner, of the University of California, says that, “No matter how you look at it, the effects of inequality are pernicious upon things like bullying on school playgrounds, the quality of your physical health, how you handle disease.”And in the same report, Paul Piff, of the University of California, Irvine, says that, “I ran a study where I asked thousands of people to tell me, is it moral to step on another person to get ahead? My wealthiest participants were way more likely to believe that greed and self-interest is a moral and good thing.”These dangers and attitudes disenfranchise us from each other, they alienated us, make us less responsible for our mutual well-being. We are alienated, so we feel lost. Built into our DNA, the DNA of a young boy, age 11, is this: you won’t show me your puppies, you anger me — here’s the pay back. Bang, Bang, you’re dead. It’s a mother writing to me because her son is wonderful — and he is — though she’s blind to the notion that, no, her son will not do better and thrive under pressure. Pressure and competition are destructive forces. Just ask the family of tIn In this sense, We of course see this “character” daily — in government and politics, business, education; we see this personality, this erased human, this flesh and blood bottom feeder everywhere. Only these are the compassion-less beings that are pulling the strings; here, too, we find an 11 year old boy that knows only to follow what he’s already interpreted as “the way of the world,” to kill. Those that caused the 144 school shootings since 2013 are here too; it’s how they see the world works, a truth to them we can’t blame others for constructing. It’s our construction, our world.If this is at the top of a vertical society, a harsh one at that, at the bottom is my alumna principle trying to protect her middle school children from the harrowing violence of the streets, while no one else seems to care.Henry A. Giroux, in A “focused resistance” we are experiencing today is that we know very well, from experience, that a vertical system founded on greed and violence, but which promotes competition and rigor under extreme pressure, whether this pressure is in schools or in the workplace, kills. It destroys. In its wake, many of us feel vulnerable and live in oblivion, as Patrick Bateman in The solutions are so simple, so very simple; it’s just that the human is not since we live, seemingly, by ego and its prodigal child, greed. So we get in our way; we get in everyone’s way. Thus, we will continue to kill. If we don’t heed these lessons, the violence will increase, the sense of oblivion and disenfranchisement will increase, the sense of loss, of being adrift will continue. If these continue, it will get worse before it gets better. Patrick Bateman’s greatest problem is that he wants to fit in; yet, he’s asked to endure a system that tells everyone, for the slightest reason,

Two entrepreneurs were sitting in a pub. One with a company evaluated at half a billion dollar. Another, with a dream. The successful one, explained to the dreamer, that he is beer stuck in his bottle. If we wish to explore other shapes, he needs to get out of his prison of comfort zone. It may not be one of the usual ways to motivate an entrepreneur. Considering the environment, it proved good enough for TVF’s main character.TVF Pitchers, a comedy show, explores the rise of entrepreneurs in Hiranandani ‘Valley’. The majority of these startup enthusiasts come from IIT-Mumbai. It was only reasonable that education got a good amount of focus. But even with all this focus, has online education taken the right approach?Create products that would not only aim towards usability or easeThe first two are known.Incentives and Rewards are a crucial piece in necessary to engage and motivate individuals. Remember that users are not only trying to gain new knowledge through your platform. But also, learning how to use your platform. The platform needs to introduce any new behaviour with easy and rewarding steps.These rewards are essential for the brain to associate an action with pleasure. Activating the brain’s reward centre is essential. Otherwise, you would always be running after your kids to eat broccoli. A good example of this will be Quora’s credit system.But after a certain period of time, users won’t be motivated by the rewards. If a company expects employees to create value because they are paid fairly to do so, its HR will always be busy in hiring.Finding social acceptance and avoiding social rejection, are **The birth of ‘passion’, an over-abused term in the startup culture, takes place here. Our peers who we compete against, becomes our benchmark for creating our An education platform must use this to help users find the meaning of ‘best’. It’s not about the highest score, or being at the top of the ladder. Users need to know how they are better. Who they are competing against. What they need to do to improve. They need to know without looking at reports or data. No digits. No names. No lines. The product must make them know.Selfie culture is a good example.This stage may come after the reward stage. Or act as a motivator to execute new behaviour.Sachin Tendulkar, the mortal considered as a God.In one of his interviews, he recalls how he pushed himself every single day. Just to get appreciation from his coach and his brother. His skills improved because he was hoping to hear the words ‘well done’. Which laid the path for what he is today. The absence of two words.It’s no longer about the short term gains. Of getting rewards or finding social acceptance. The brain needs to find one strong reason, worthy enough to make huge efforts. Huge efforts to create This is the first unknown, which education platform has not been able to explore. The reason to learn varies with each student. Some might want to fight hardships of poverty with education. Others might want to make their parents proud. Your product must allow exploration of features depending on these reasons.The last stage, which I name after the dielectric, is where the learning truly happens. The first three stages prepare the mind. Create a knowledge base. Create passion and persistence. Required to reach a stage where the person is willing to put a lot of hard work.Let’s first discuss Myelin in brief.Myelin wraps itself around circuits in the brain. The bigger the wrap, more it increases the speed and strength of signals. Think of it this way — Less myelin = 256 kbps dial-up line. And more myelin = 100 Mbps Fibre optic. Now figure, which signal will the Production of the myelin layer, called Technology products, rarely cater to these highly motivated users. It would be difficult to do so.They desire autonomy, mastery and a personal purpose.A good example would be League of Legend’s Howling Abyss (HA) game mode. This game mode shifts focus from winning matches to improving mechanical skills. Summoner’s Rift (SR) is the main mode where champions compete. LOL makes sure that players who fail in SR, get the opportunity to play in their own ways. Distant themselves from competition and focus on improving skills in HA. They never preach the same. The product just takes care of that.Another good example would be the online encyclopedia. Which beat Microsoft’s resources of experts, money and a These steps are not only suitable for education startups. But for creating any long-term good behaviour and expertise.You may stop at stage 2 ( Shaun the sheep) if you :-But, if u wish something more than getting users hooked to a product, you need to follow science, not clichés.

I still clearly remember that day. It was East Coast mid-autumn sun that followed me to ECON305. My stacks of reading materials were flapping against the breezes as I rushed my way to the faraway building. When I finally arrived, the professor had already finished seating the class. The discussion question was, “How to solve poverty in India using innovative approaches?” It made me gulp.To be perfectly honest, I was no expert on India’s domestic affairs. Sure, I lived there for two years, but who was I to say I could solve any of its “problems?” If living on top of Mahindra Hill had taught me anything, it sure was “never assume that you know.” Studying, dining, and simply being with people who could not be more different from me for two years, I’d learned to defer assumptions, respect differences, and value new ideas.But “having been to India” was apparently no qualifier to being in the professor’s discussion that day. Everyone but me was raising their hands up high, deeply engaged in heated debates over optimal methods of solving India’s biggest problem. I sat there, small-voiced, intimidated, wondering how on Earth these people had so much to talk about when none of them had even been to the country. There was a voice in my head that kept saying, “In order to experience the world, you have to live in it.”So naturally, four years later, when I first heard of Minerva — a newly accredited university where students would live and study in seven countries throughout the four years, the idealistic 18-year-old girl in me emerged again, her heart shouted: “UWC-alert, UWC-alert!”Minerva’s slogan reads “Achieving Extraordinary,” which has soon become a running joke among its founding class students for being a bit too… confident. However, it is exactly that combination of idealism and humility, coupled with the need to constantly improve itself that draws people, myself included, to Minerva. The emphasis is on “achieving,” not being “extraordinary.” Like Kurt Hanz who believed that the United World College system could be a solution to the then fragmented world, Ben Nelson believes that Minerva could be a solution to some of the most pressing problems facing world in the 21stcentury. Being the “future of higher education” is no easy task, “But why settle for anything less than extraordinary?” Ben would definitely say.Imagine a school that doesn’t teach you what to think, but how to think. In an age of information abundance and instant gratification of knowledge, news can be read through a Facebook status, complicated concepts are taught through open and easily accessible platforms like Khan Academy, and reading e-books is more productive than going to libraries. People start to question the validity of massive lectures and even of having a teacher. If school is there only for knowledge dissemination, one should simply not invest in it, especially when the alternative is much cheaper, if not free. But, what if going to class means being able to analyze and evaluate multifaceted and diluted information while actually gaining practical skills? What if students can systematically and purposefully apply habits of mind, such as “understanding your audience,” to difficult problems, like “raising awareness for a fundraising campaign for Foundation Rwanda?” The employers love it — 93% of them say there are three things that matter more than a candidate’s undergraduate degree: critical-thinking skill, effective communication skill, and creative problem-solving skill.Imagine a school that actually utilizes technology, not for the cool and buzz-generating nature, but for its ability to maximize students’ learning outcomes. When used right, technology could help teachers better track students’ progress and generate personalized lesson plan. Imagine learning in an interactive seminar with no more than 19 students and 1 professor. Imagine being able to see constantly updated data on personal performances. You can even evaluate the professor and give him feedback. It is technology like Active Learning Platform that could change what schools look like in the 21stcentury. That change is overdue after being in place for 500 years.Imagine a school that does not care about your nationality, socioeconomic status or even gender. Each student is chosen only and purely based on merits. A series of IQ and EQ tests are automated each time a student applies to the school. The process ends with scripted interviews designed to minimize biases. The application process is streamlined, interesting, and fair. This is to ensure accessibility to students all over the world, including those who could not afford expensive, multiple tests, let alone test prep courses.Imagine living and learning in San Francisco, Berlin, Buenos Aires, Bangalore, Seoul, London and Istanbul. There are no “international students,” as the concept of “domestic vs. international” changes every time the class moves to another city. Students are encouraged to use these world-class cities as their campuses. That way, students are pushed to get out of their comfort zone. The Active Learning Platform allows students and professors to be anywhere in the city or in the world.Wishful, ambitious and even crazy? Perhaps. Yet, Minerva has already existed. Its first two classes beat an admittance rate of 2.8% and 2.5% to go to the most selective university in the world. These are outstanding individuals who have published books, obtained patents, or built private companies. Minerva might be a mystery, but the people that have come to it aren’t. As one of Minerva’s first 50 employees, I’m humbled, challenged, and amazed every single day working with such talented, passionate and creative colleagues.Hopeful and idealistic? Maybe. But apparently, the investors believe in this vision too. Last fall, we secured Minerva Series B of funding at 70 million dollars, after raising seed funding the year before at 25 million. This means: the success of Minerva and its students is pivotal to a lot of people, many of whom have essentially taken a leap of faith in joining the vision at such an early stage.Only time will tell. But you can be sure that I’ll be the first to let you know the day Minerva has established itself as the Harvard of the 21st century.It could have been worse, but it wasn’t.How to Turn Learning Into Opportunity

With the development of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC’s) like Coursera and Khan Academy, it has never been easier, or cheaper to learn something new. Mobile apps like Babbel and Duo Lingo make it easy for anyone, anywhere to learn a new language.And yet, despite the millions of students who have enrolled in classes, and the tens of millions of hours that have been spent watching lectures and frantically punching away at screens, a student’s online experience is still one directional. Teacher talks. Student listens.MOOC’s leverage the very best of the Web 2.0 experience by broadcasting delivering high quality content to learners around the globe. Teachers present lectures using multimedia tools while students log on and consume lectures at their convenience.However, current teaching methodologies, favor a more participatory, inductive approach to learning. The teacher doesn’t broadcast, but rather guides students to discover truths on his or her own. Classrooms sizes should be kept small in order to provide support and guidance as students explore and inevitably fail. A teacher’s role is not so much to tell students which path to take, but rather to assist students when they fail.MOOCs then are at an interesting crossroads. How can they continue to provide high quality, low cost classes to millions of students anywhere on the planet, while also providing modern, exploratory learning environments that guide rather than dictate to students what they should be learning?In a perfect world, every teacher would have an army of yellow minions that could guide each student. Unfortunately though yellow minions aren’t real, and scaling real life ‘minions’ would compromise the goal of delivering low cost, high quality education to anyone, anywhere in the world.Fortunately though, technology has advanced beyond Web 2.0. Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) is no longer strictly the domain science fiction movies. Bots with basic functionality are already being used in call centers to allow you to speak to the machine rather than punch in numbers. More advanced bots that run on AI and NLP are being deployed every day and more importantly, they are no longer prohibitively expensive nor do they require a Computer Science degree from M.I.T.Individual English and History teachers can now create an army of minions in the form of a bot to work and guide each student in their class, regardless of the class size.These customized bots will help to guide students by giving them a more personalized, interactive learning opportunity. Teachers would then be able to oversee each student’s learning experience from more of an observer role, giving him or her the opportunity to intervene and help guide individual students when needed without having to hold up the rest of the students in the class. Working with a bot could not only minimize student frustration by allowing students to learn and explore at their own pace, but also amplify the teacher’s effectiveness by alerting teachers to struggling students without having to sacrifice the needs of many for the needs of one.If MOOC’s are to keep up with modern learning methodologies and continue to provide high quality learning for students to anyone anywhere, they will have to continue to rethink the manner in which they deliver learning content to students.By creating interactive bots that use NLP and AI, MOOCs will be able to guide rather than dictate to students how they should achieve personalized learning objectives. Teacher talks, student listens no longer has to be the only scalable way to teach millions anywhere, anytime at little to no cost. By implementing bots into curriculum design and classroom experiences, MOOCs can continue to reach millions of students around the world while also creating personalized learning experiences where students explore and teachers guide.We build bots

Technology has been developed tirelessly for the last century. And all that was dubbed to revolutionize education has not. Why is that? Why has everything failed to break into the system?Even with all smart classes and the internet, there has been no significant change in the classroom. The answer lies in the simplest of the ideas. The Adjacent Possible. I came across the idea of the adjacent possible in the book, “Where Good Ideas Come From” by Steven Johnson. And then it me why.When you go back to the birth of life on earth, the simplest of life forming molecules populated the earth. Every life form we see today started out with same initial ingredients, Methan (CH4), Ammonia (NH3), Hydrogen (H2) and Water (H20). And every time there was a lightning, the molecules fused together to form the basic compounds necessary for life: Sugar, Lipids, Nucleic Acid. These were just few those sparks that created them. Continuous supply of energy through sparks created all 22 amino acids that we know of today are required for life. When the first lipids recombined, they created a possibility that would ultimately lead to cell membrane. With more combinations and permutations of the same, a cell was formed and from there, life grew to be what we are today.Now the idea of adjacent possible is that no matter what energy you supplied to the initial ingredients of life, they would not recombine to form a cell or a cellular life form. They would only be what was adjacently possible. The Sugars, Lipids, etc. This is true for any other thing we come across every day. If you were to create something new, you’ll always have to use what is at your disposal. And if you want, what you created to be distributed widely, your raw ingredients must be available in those places to make that happen.The innovation with education went wrong exactly there. The use of tablets, smart boards or even the DVDs in classrooms are not the adjacent possible. Even if they were, the classrooms are not stable conditions under which these could survive and make any significant difference.The only question to ask next is what is the adjacent possible for today and tomorrow and work on both of them simultaneously. We have to look at both the needs of today and the possibilities of tomorrow, and if something isn’t an adjacent possible, what is that will expand the boundaries of possibility? And do that.Doing my bit to make the world as it’s supposed to be.Ta daa!

I took 4 years off after A-Levels, and in that time I completed a short course in IT, then worked at a technology company for about 3 years. I didn’t really think about going to University until very late in the 4 years off, and I didn’t get the best grades so I wasn’t very confident.However, I think the experience out of education helped me a lot. I noticed I was the one most dedicated to getting the best results, and one of the very few who wanted to be there.I had to start with a 2 year Foundation course called Computing  Business IT, because my lack of UCAS points (I have loads of professional accreditations which don’t count). But as I received straight A’s in my first year, my tutors saw the amount of effort I was putting in, and I was transferred to the Computer Science BSc degree. So I wouldn’t have to complete the second year of my Foundation degree, and So to round off a very large comment. If you’re not 100% sure about University straight after your A-Levels, then take some time off. You could travel, work, or just try out new ideas. You will learn valuable experiences and responsibilities which will help you get the best out of Uni.I study Computer Science at London Met University, attempt to develop games and apps, and also run a blog called AppRecap.net.We Seek Out the Important Stories in Higher Education (To submit, tweet your proposal to 

Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal is one of a half-dozen Republicans confirmed to take part in The Seventy Four’s election summit Aug. 19 in Manchester, New Hampshire.Jindal earlier this year released a In advance of the event (which will be live-streamed here), here are three things to know about Jindal’s record in Louisiana and his K-12 platform. (Don’t forget to check out Jindal’s Jindal is one of several GOP contenders who flipped his position on Common Core. As He maintained that support through the spring of 2014, when he backed away from the standards in an “It has become fashionable in the news media to believe there is a right-wing conspiracy against Common Core. The folks who think that need to get out more. The rebellion against federal government mandated testing is widespread and is led by parents of all stripes and political persuasions. If we get to the point where we are ignoring parents, we are making a big elitist mistake. I have news for Washington: We can have rigorous standards without giving control to the federal government. Parents deserve a voice in this debate.”Jindal didn’t just speak out against the standards, though. He sued the federal Education Department and Secretary Arne Duncan last summer, arguing the department illegally coerced states into adopting them, And he made several attempts to have Louisiana back out of the standards, including Jindal, like many other Republicans in the race, is a staunch supporter of vouchers.“To oppose school choice is to put the wishes of the adults who control the status quo ahead of the needs of our children. To oppose school choice is to oppose equal opportunity,” he told an audience in Washington in 2012, Louisiana adopted a program that gave scholarships to children whose schools received a C, D or F grade, but a state court ruled the program unconstitutional because it was paid for with funds earmarked for public education, Jindal and the legislature eventually came up with a new way to pay for the program, but the court battles continue.The Justice Department, citing a 1975 desegregation order banning Louisiana from paying for tuition at private schools that discriminate on the basis of race, sued in 2013 to stop new vouchers unless the state got the permission of a federal court. The feds have since dropped that demand and are instead seeking to monitor the program via regular information from the state, Keeping Score, Election 2016: Check out Jindal in April 2012 signed a broad education overhaul bill, including provisions that created the voucher program and changed teacher tenure regulations, tying tenure to student performance and making it harder for new teachers to get tenure.Those provisions, too, were challenged in court. The Louisiana teachers union said they violated a state prohibition on including more than one topic in a bill. The state Supreme Court in 2014 ruled the law constitutional, saying the union failed to show that Jindal’s many provisions amounted to a “grave and palpable conflict” with the one-object rule, The Seventy Four is a non-profit, non-partisan news site covering education in America.

In the future, which is today — not in 50 years, most of the knowledge needed to build a rocket, a building, or a business is free to access, with modest fees paid for curation or review and critique of your work. The advent of Yes, learners have been using technology to access content for some time, this isn’t new stuff, but the development of a type of learning currency using an open platform solution makes accessing this content even more worthwhile. And interestingly (thankfully!), the technological solutions increase the value of compelling teaching and cross platform presentation of ideas and knowledge. Teachers aren’t monetising classes in this new world, they are monetising attention.I hear what you might be thinking. Or at least what I am thinking is that this will make for a world of monoculture learners with narrow perspectives on the world because they aren’t forced to take that philosophy elective in the 2nd year of college. Maybe. But, probably not. What happens when the philosophy teacher makes the content so compelling and presents it in a variety of ways for a variety of learning styles (think about how movies impact your worldview)? People pay attention. Even non-philosophy people pay attention.My 11 year old son has accessed content across the web to learn a variety of useful stuff. Some of it interesting and simply worth knowing (science  history) and some of it to help him create things. I didn’t tell him to learn, where to go, how to access the content, or point out it’s importance. What happens when this learning isn’t just accessible, but portable, and provable? Badges allow learners to show off skills at a 1 to many perspective. Badges stick with the learner and because they contain content provided by the learner and validated by the teacher, they blow the socks off a paper degree. And furthermore, you don’t have to get the full degree to show your skills off!It means a 19 year old has currency and can pick herself. It means a laid off worker of 54 years old has currency and can pick himself. And it means, shift workers can learn while keeping their jobs with those erratic schedules.In the future, the Henris of the world will learn from a variety of sources, not least of which, games. They will not be bound by bureaucratic systems demanding compliance. Rather, Henri will be demanding the best from every instructor he encounters.Even the construct of a course will disappear as learners dip in and out of instruction to gain the specific knowledge and experience they require. This is something old school thinking has not realised is actually a sign of learning — not failing. The article below is one of dozens that claim Massive Online Open Courses (MOOCs) — which are only one form of new learning platform— are failures because people do just that — drop out when they have gotten what they wanted. What the schools fail to see: it’s not about them, it’s about you.This took on biblical proportions of missing the point when the famous Stanford Artificial Intelligence (AI) Class registered 160,000+ students. The extra sauce is what badges could do for this AI classes 137,000 attendees who dipped in and then out before the end.Pretty cool, huh?In addition to being broken down to it’s essential parts,Today’s professor types will become big brands in the future while the institutions morph into basic facilitators or simply hosts to potentially great, even rockstar teachers. Great teachers will no longer be trapped in bloated bureaucratic institutions. The smart schools and money know this and are trying to adapt quickly.And that money knows that while learning may not be entirely free all over the place, it’s costs are going down (for the consumer) and will likely be 80-90% less than traditional higher education today. [ The percentage reductions are my hyperbole to make a point. ] That’s ok, because with badges, monetisation happens at the attention level, not the graduation from school level. Badges will be the currency. And because the technology allows curation to scale and makes distribution cheap, those sisters of badges will bring the revolution.And what does a badge centric educated world look like? More people educated. More educational content actually consumed. We haven’t even touched on the impacts to hiring (hint: it makes it better!). But, beyond the technology of badges and MOOCs and whatever is next on the technological horizon for education, we are seeing inventive ways to make education more about the human experience. While this is happening, education is being democratised, disrupted, and reinvented. Welcome to the future.Todd writes for Navigating, selecting  creating the eclectic and the purposeful for smart people, like you: Collisions. Connections. Choices. Ideas for building dynamic, shiny ventures. Submissions via unlisted post w/ link to your story and tag @ [Todd Hannula, Ned Hoste  Cristina Juesas].

I recently was fortunate enough to cross paths with We were discussing my company, This stayed with me throughout the day, and with time and thought evolved into what I believe can be a framework for largely innovating the world of education: This framework reasonably could be applied to innovate in almost any sector, but I think it particularly fits education well (which I’ll show through diverse examples after explaining it further).I hate to burst your bubble, but there is probably someone out there already doing or practicing your incredibly innovative solution. It may not be the exact same thing, they may not realize how innovative their methods are, and a host of other “may not” statements probably are accurate.However, it is extremely naive to think that no one in the world has yet stumbled onto what you have stumbled onto, or figured out the superior method you figured out.That doesn’t mean that you don’t have a potentially huge company, just that there are probably individuals already practicing innovative solutions to the problems we’re identifying.What this means is when we identify a problem we want to solve, as an entrepreneur, before we become attached to our perfect solution we could learn a lot and likely save time by going out and observing the people who are individually succeeding at a problem the masses are failing at.If 80% of students have problem X, then 20% don’t and I have to imagine at least 5% probably have pretty damn good solutions/methods that eliminated problem X for them.Once we know the students, teachers, schools, or whoever/whatever else we wish to observe, we need to meticulously observe and record their methods for solving problem X.Whether it’s a certain strategy doing mental math quicker, a personalized system for managing students, or any other method they use for solving that problem.If it is something that can not be audibly or visually recorded, try to see if the individuals are willing to help you out even further by doing before and after interviews, participating in the incredible design thinking research method of “Think Alouds”, or use some other means to help you get inside their brain while they are solving problem X.You definitely have to do this for more than one individual who is successfully solving problem X, and it would probably serve you well to do this for individuals struggling with problem X as well.Your job is then twofold. You need to:This is where your real job as the entrepreneur comes into play. After you have recorded data on every little thing that person did in a variety of settings, and for a variety of individuals, it is time to sort through it all.You need to determine if the solutions that you discovered are not only able to be automated, specifically with technology, but also able to be taught to those who did not inherently use such methods/solutions/etc.This is where prototyping comes into play. I would love to dive deeper into this, but that could be another 3 articles on its own.For the sake of length, I’ll leave you with this. My three favorite prototypes are:Go look them up ;)Everyone has something that only they can do for the world. Only wild cards change the world. Founder + CEO Reflections, opinions, and personal stories/anecdotes on startups  education. Authored by 

Things you wanted to know, but were afraid to ask.Every new product, new idea or new way of thinking starts with a good critical question. We are talking about the education. Let’s try…Before they even know what the person is actually doing.Seriously. Why?I asked this question on Quora. I want more answers.I am spending all my teaching time on the actual teaching and developing new learning exercises. Why do I necessarily “need” to publish a certain number of articles a year to be even considered for teaching position in most academically-oriented institutions?I know there are a few exceptions here. Mostly in science, where the fundamental research may be necessary.But talking about business-related subjects or social sciences… How often do the start-up founders read the latest research on entrepreneurship? How many people who learned to speak another language fluently read the research on language acquisition techniques? I have never actually met a single one who told me they did. And I have worked with hundreds (may be thousands) of language learners.Should the excellence in academic writing be an optional extra to your teaching job? And if it shouldn’t, why?This is often the promise, the selling point of an MBA program — to help you learn real business decision-making. How many MBA programs do actually deliver on this promise?(5) The students are increasingly disillusioned with little value of their University education for the job market. Seriously, who else would be more motivated to take the initiative here?(6) Whenever I teach cross-cultural communication to my students, I have to start with Hofstede theory. It is in every business textbook. It’s what every student taking a cross-cultural communication course is supposed to know. I have never seen a single application of this theory for the actual business decisions. Japan is a “collectivist” society and Western countries are not. May be… but, then, what? How does knowing the scores lead me to a better understanding of my Japanese business partners? Until I actually talk to them. This is where real learning starts.I get more useful insights on doing business in Brazil from short conversations with my Brazilian friends. They are in Brazil and know how to do business in Brazil. Do I really need to know how Brazil scores in “masculinity-femininity” or “collectivism-individualism”? Even if I know these scores, how much does it add to the practical knowledge I get from people working in this market?They go to a graduate school straight after they complete their bachelor’s. Using this logic, they could be in school forever, just preparing for the next entrance test while doing their current degree. People with Master’s degree get more job opportunities? Seriously? Without any work experience? They still do?What is the ultimate goal of the education system that is designed this way?If they don’t learn to communicate with people in this language, then what else are they learning in four years of University studies?They are, essentially, a set of lectures and powerpoints. Just like in the classroom. Is it really a revolution? An innovation?How many people complete MOOCs? What stops them from completing it? Could be a lack of time and motivation, for sure. What about lack of practical application of what you learn?In places like General Assembly etc.?Why do graduates in marketing have to learn customer acquisition techniques on social media, again, on their own? Shouldn’t it be a part of their marketing course? Also, it would make a lot more sense if this course is taught by a person with substantial experience of acquiring customers on social media. A practitioner. A start-up founder. A person with experience of actually doing it.And another question:Grade systems / programs / industry-classroom gap…May be it’s time to focus on changing all these things, rather than debating them?One classroom, or even one mind at a time?If you don’t have the flexibility to do it within the current system, but still wanna ask the questions similar to the ones I am asking… perhaps, it’s time to start your own project? Make a real difference? Even for a small group of people around you? Might be worth more than all academic debates?There is a lot of talk about the problems of our education system. But there is a shortage of people making this change in their classroom.Or may be I have just been too pessimistic about the “shortage”.Please let me know if I have. :)On If you are doing something to make these changes happen, I would love to learn more about things you do. And will be glad to share things I do.Learn a language by speaking it. Learn a skill by using it.Ask yourself good questions. Find other people who care. Do something.

Some of my favorite (and most important) childhood moments happened during Community Circle, a special program at Castle Heights Elementary. Every week, “Mr. Mel” came in to lead a session about — I don’t know how else to describe it — being a good human being.We students would role-play scenarios — Mr. Mel always called them “dilemmas” — that would test our character, situations with no right answer. What if you walked into the candy store and there was no clerk… could you just take a candy bar and leave money on the counter? What if your best friend was bullying someone you didn’t like very much… what should you do? On paper, Community Circle sounds a bit like one of those corny programs that fifth graders wouldn’t enjoy very much, but Community Circle was the highlight of the week for everyone in the class. My teacher used to joke (half seriously) that Mr. Mel was the only person on the planet capable of engaging thirty youngsters for an hour.Mr. Mel also happens to be my grandfather, and this year will mark his 25th year of Community Circle. Before that, he was a teacher and principal in San Bernardino for thirty years. To me, he is the embodiment of strength and courage: while I spent my twenty-first birthday in college, my grandfather spent his in a German prisoner of war camp, after his B-24 was shot down over France. When he returns to Castle Heights Elementary in the fall, I’ll bet he’ll be the only 92-year-old teaching a class in Los Angeles Unified.Steve Lopez at the Los Angeles Times just wrote a beautiful profile of Grandpa Mel and his work in LAUSD: “Grandpa Mel’s teaching shaped me as a child.And he’s had a big influence on our work at Panorama Education. He’s shown us how much about a great education goes beyond reading and math, and how important it is for every student to think about themselves as capable of learning, growing, and of being a kind and generous person.Panorama Education helps schools improve by acting on feedback from students, parents, teachers, and staff.

Recently, longtime educator Nancie Atwell became the first recipient of the Varkey Foundations Global Teacher Prize. The newly conceived prize is awarded to “one innovative and caring teacher who has made an inspirational impact on their students and their community will receive the reward of a lifetime” (Teachers from across the globe applied for the award, and the finalists were broken into categories scaling from the top 40 candidates to the top 10 candidates. At last, one winner was chosen and given not only a prestigious title, but also one million dollars to spend as they please.In the following interview, Atwell explains that she will invest her complete cash prize back into her private school. I’m perfectly content with Atwell using her money to support her school, but I do not agree with the latter portion of her interview:Interviewer:Atwell: She continues by advising creative, independent young teachers to Atwell’s “advice” is infuriating. She has become a global face of education and here she is, speaking out against public education. She then quickly drops in the buzzword “Common Core” to add to her criticism. Public education is shifting as national standards and increased standardized testing are implemented, but many seem to overlook the advantages of nation-wide curriculum standards. In my experience, the loudest critics of Common Core State Standards (CCSS) are those who are the least informed. CCSS offers across-the-board learning outcomes specific to subject and grade level. They are followed in any American public school, despite its location on the map. This offers an equal education opportunity for all students, and it does not allow the school district to disadvantage the quality of a student’s education.There is speculation over how quickly the standards were implemented in many school districts, but that raises critique of Education is an ever-changing field. Teachers are constantly warned that they must be adaptable in a day-to-day classroom environment, and CCSS calls for that same sort of adaptability. The Common Core is not here to ruin our education system, but rather, to put it back on track. Despite the fair, worthwhile education it promotes, CCSS are surrounded by myths and misconstrued at every possible opportunity.One image that comes to mind is the signs exclaiming, “STOP COMMON CORE” that litter the lawns of my conservative, southern Louisiana neighborhood. These belligerent protests act as if Common Core is part of a communist takeover threatening our school districts. I would also like to point out that most residents of my neighborhood send their children to private schools, so this could add to their violent, misdirected outcry. Many who fight against Common Core have probably never even bothered to read the education standards provided by the CCSS website.Here’s a snap shot of an English Language Arts Standard for high school freshmen and sophomores taken from Is this general text complexity standard compromising my creativity and autonomy as an English teacher? Am I being told exactly how I should teach in my own classroom and what materials I should use? No. This standard merely provides me with a general outline of the knowledge my students should acquire upon leaving my classroom. I choose the activities, the materials, the assessment, and I make the lesson plans.There is the issue of the amount of high-stakes testing that comes with the standards, but testing still doesn’t have to be the focus of the classroom. If we are equipped, hard-working educators, then we should already be providing our students with most of the important skills and content covered in assessment tests.Nancie Atwell has openly retreated from a battle that needs her support. The fight for quality public education is relevant and ongoing. We need teachers in the public sector that can rise above high-stakes testing and other “constraints” of public schools. The fight may seem hopeless, but that does not mean quality, innovative teachers should scurry to the safety of private education. Passionate, hard-working teachers are needed in the public sector more than ever.Unlike Atwell’s opinion on the matter, my opinion will not be internationally broadcasted, but it needs to be heard.Aspiring High School English teacher. Lover of cats, books, and a musical theatre dork.

As each of us were growing up, and some like me still are, all we wanted to do is make. It did not matter if we were making a robot, a cake, or just a big mess, we just have this deep need to make something.I still want to make and to create, no matter the outcome, it satisfies my soul. There are days that I go in to the shop to do nothing more than make sawdust or to make an LED blink. I don’t have to walk away with anything physical to walk away with something tangible. I continue this desire to make on a regular basis, always working on some random project, mostly because I was raised to be this way. I was raised with mother’s leadership example and her desire to show us, my brother and I, how to This is a reasonably traditional form of education, one that so many parents are un-able to provide for their children as we move to a society of thought workers. I know we can husband, father, fisher, maker,  teacher at 

Some of America’s top policymakers will come together in Manchester, New Hampshire Wednesday to share their ideas on all things education as the 2016 presidential election season builds. Ahead of the big event, The Seventy Four delved into some of the critical issues facing New Hampshire students: How far school choice extends, innovative ways to avoid the over-testing trap and the showdown between New Hampshire’s governor and state lawmakers over the standards.And, just for fun, we put together a profile of Londonderry High School, whose staff has been kind enough to open their doors for the summit.Be sure to tune into The74Million.org on Wednesday for live NH Education Summit coverage, featuring conversations with Jeb Bush, Chris Christie, Carly Fiorina, Bobby Jindal, John Kasich and Scott Walker.The Seventy Four’s Matt Barnum highlights the debate in New Hampshire over the Common Core State Standards. A few months ago, New Hampshire lawmakers passed a bill prohibiting state education officials from requiring that any school district in New Hampshire mandate the use of Common Core.But Democratic Gov. Maggie Hassan, a staunch Common Core supporter, vetoed the legislation. The Seventy Four’s Carolyn Phenicie reports on how a tiny school district’s attempt to offer its students school choice could be illegal. For years, older kids in Croydon have attended school in a neighboring town. Last year, however, Croydon School District leaders told the town’s residents they could use local tax money that covers tuition in the neighboring district at the school of their choice. For The Seventy Four, reporter Mark Keierleber wrote about how a pilot program that allowed some New Hampshire students to skip the standardized Smarter Balanced exams this spring could revolutionize exams used to hold schools accountable for student learning and teacher effectiveness. Instead of bubble tests, the students took locally developed tests that relied on competencies rather than standardized skills. The Seventy Four’s Lizzie Thompson took readers inside the classrooms at Londonderry High School, the NH Education Summit’s host school. Along with a top-notch marching band, Londonderry students’ test scores aren’t too shabby, either. The Seventy Four is a non-profit, non-partisan news site covering education in America.74 Million Reasons to Talk About Education.

Reading Time: 2 minutesWe asked India’s leading educators and academicians about the reforms in the education sector that they would recommend to the Modi government over the next 5 years. This is what had to say.Recommendation fromThe field of education is a key one and reforms must be made in this field first, if we want to bring about societal changes. Three suggestions that I would like to make are as follows:Education should be a part of the Union List, rather than the Concurrent List to iron out the disparities in the operation of various boards.“TARA” –T -TeachA — ApplyR- RetainA — AchieveStudents who find a particular subject difficult would have the choice of a vocational subject. Furthermore, the “No Fail” policy could be relooked into. This policy is not preparing the children to face failures. Life is not a bed of roses, in reality. The roots of a plant have to be healthy and strong for the plant to grow into a healthy tree and one that is able to face the onslaught of nature. An increase in the number of suicides in the youth is seen as they are not prepared to face failures in life.An appropriate 3600 evaluation of the teacher by the students, parents and school authorities, and maybe, by a third party should be done. A good performance should be rewarded. A benchmark for the same has to be thought about, like in the corporate sector. Once the teaching field is equally competitive in all spheres, many more skilled, well trained, passionate and smarter individuals would choose to become a teacher. An education exam could be conducted on the lines of Indian Administrative Services. The status of the teacher in society has to be positioned in such a way that it becomes respectable to be a teacher, not just noble.EI sees a world where every child learns with understanding.They develop educational products such as ASSET  Mindspark, that prepare a child for the future

After almost ten years living as an exchange student, I’ve seen many stories gain new directions. Including mine, because I came to Ireland to study English when I was 21 years old and now, with A major focus of the Educational Exchange is the need to face difficult situations by yourself — or without the support of family or friends. Problem solving is also involved. After the arrival, the students are in the midst of a different culture, with people speaking a language they may not dominate. They need to find a place to live, to understand how the supermarket, public transport and banks works. They must deal even with the telephone or Internet to connect with who stayed away. It sounds easy, but when they need to do it by themselves, it’s not that simple. The first step, essential to this period, is to get out of your comfort zone and start acting. And start saving the budget, plan for the future — even if the future is only a few months further.The Educational Exchange is never just to learn or practice a new language. Living with people of different nationalities makes us think about life, review concepts and expand social relations. In this process, discovering the other, you can better understand who we are or who we want to be. That’s why so many people decide to continue their journey after the first educational exchange.

Lorsque je me montre critique envers l’éducation, je me montre critique envers la Des auteurs ont suffisamment donné de leur Temps pour vous faire comprendre que notre comportement, notre sensibilité et notre pensée sont détournés.Pour ma part, je m’appuie sur ce constat pour continuer la réflexion et aller plus loin.A mon avis, un enfant ne devrait pas être éduqué. Un enfant devrait être élevé. Dans la plus pure définition de l’élévation. Une élévation verticale, une élévation dimensionnelle, une élévation spirituelle.Être Homme’nimal n’est donc pas un manque ou une absence d’un apprentissage de règles, de savoirs, de valeurs.Être Homme’nimal est un trop plein de Vérité, de Peur et de Désir déguisés et forcés par les priorités scolaires, familiales et sociétales qui ne nous appartiennent pas.Author  Philanthropactivist: Against all forms of Domination on ourselves, humans, animals and plants- #PhilosophieComportementale© -#BehaviouralPhilosophy©D’Homme’nimal à Homme : ou Comment participer à l’Amélioration du Monde par son propre Comportement

We’ve posted some interesting articles this past week on Higher Education, if you have anything you would like to submit tweet us at I’d hate to say college was pointless, but besides the networking and social aspect, the content hasn’t changed. The degree needs serious work. While I don’t have the ability to change my school’s curriculum, I want to point what’s wrong, and what should be taught/modified.I’ve always been one of those weird ones. You know, the type of person who loves school and loves learning. So I left school and went to University, but that wasn’t enough so I did a home learning course as well.The value of a college education is undeniable. Unfortunately, that value is difficult to quantify. Perhaps this is part of the reason why the higher education system is racked by some major problems.In a very rare occurrence, the same news story flashed across the Chronicle of Higher Education, the New York Times and the Washington Post last week. A group of researchers reported that they could replicate only 39 of 100 studies published in three leading psychology journals.Last week’s review:Remember that if you have anything you would like to submit tweet us at Former Security Consultant. Developer with a love of Education, Mashups and Folksonomy. Serial Entrepreneur. (+31646783584)
 Tech We Seek Out the Important Stories in Higher Education (To submit, tweet your proposal to 

In 1984, environmental psychologist Roger Ulrich conducted a landmark scientific study called “Scientists later found that endorphins are released in the part of our brains that recognize a beautiful view. It makes us more relaxed, less stressed, happier. It not only feels good but is actually, chemically, good for us. Which is why people pay more for hotel rooms with water views. It’s also why we have building height restrictions and have fought to keep the Open Space open for all these years. More than perhaps any other city in this great state, the residents of Traverse City know that views matter.Have you seen the ones from Old Mission Peninsula School?I just read of the potential school closing. I guess it’s not surprising — when resources are stretched, numbers drive decisions. And enrollment at OMPS is down; there are only 200 students currently enrolled in a school that has capacity for 300–400.In considering the issue, Christine Guitar, TCAPS Marketing Director, says the goal is When we’re talking about the “best education possible,” are we considering the Every student, regardless of where they go, will learn science. But is studying the physical and natural world from the confines of a classroom really theEqually worth considering: the value of the on-site pumpkin patch, the apple trees, the boardwalk, the outdoor ampetheater where you can dance and perform alongside the changing trees. At Old Mission, you learn to connect with the elemental, to engage with all your senses — the property naturally encourages it. Private schools would kill for that learning luxury; for a Traverse City public school, it’s completely unmatched. It’s also so perfectly Northern Michigan.Author and researcher Stuart Brown calls play, “Find a playground better than Old Mission’s, I dare you. Rolling hills that become sledding hills in the winter, full soccer fields, as much grass as the downtown Open Space. If Old Mission’s play landscape gets superior marks for building character and nurturing creativity while other schools fall far below average, does that boost it’s overall grade? In the closure consideration, those high marks should matter, right? At least a little?In a world that bombards us with noise and concrete and distraction, Old Mission Peninsula School is one of the few quiet, natural, protected spaces that remains.The driveway sets the tone. Long and meandering, enclosed by trees that have watched generations of kids — myself included ­ — come and go. It provides generous space from the road, from the chaos and chatter of daily life. By the time you reach the school’s front door, everything feels more calm, more relaxed, you can breathe a little easier.Maybe we’ll never be able to measure the drop of shoulders or those lighter breaths, but I’m willing to bet they change the way our kids’ learn.I went to Old Mission from 1992 to 1997 ­­ — second grade through sixth. Of all the gifts in life, I consider this one of the very greatest. I’m not exaggerating. I value it so deeply that every time I come home, I swing by for a visit. I take Peninsula drive or Center Road, depending on how fast I feel like going. Either way, when I get to Island View, I turn. Past the home I will forever know as Mary Lyons’, where many of my elementary school friends spent their after-school hours, running in the yard and playing in the orchards. Or past the new Saint Joseph’s Church and that once-yellow house where the girl a grade above me lived for so long — maybe she still does. When I get to the sign that sits out front, reminding us that the Public Library lives peacefully among young Panthers, I turn again, always.Sometimes I just drive up and do a quick pass through the turn around; I like remembering how it felt walking through those doors for so many great years. But more then a handful of times, I’ve parked and walked out onto the playground. Down the hill, past the basketball courts where I perfected my three’s, up the sledding hill and back into the woods to find the tree where I carved my boyfriend’s initials in 1994.It’s increasingly difficult to assign sufficient value to that which we can’t measure (consider music and art programs, long suffering our collective evaluation inadequacies). When budgets are tight, the creative importance of watching apple trees blossom outside homeroom is likely ignored, if not scoffed at. And it’s not easy to defend the brain-clearing impact of a superior recess experience when standardized test scores drive funding. Certainly, it will always be easier to collect data around the decline in enrollment or the funds not recouped after renovation. I get that.But for a city that has never been too proud or too small-minded to consider creative solutions to real problems, and a community that intuitively understands why trees trump brick, I have to think we can find a way not only to keep Old Mission open, but to make known the real value of enrolling in a school that gives students the best possible.As the conversation continues and all sides are weighed, maybe TCAPS, PTO, and community members could take some time and just go sit out there on that beautiful Island View property. I’ll go with, happily. We can look around, soak in the perspective, borrow new ideas from the alive land. For sparking imagination, there’s no place like it.

There is a fable in which an Arab miller reluctantly allows his camel to stick his nose under his tent on a cold night in the desert. This is quickly followed by other parts of his body entering the tent until the camel is completely inside the tent and refuses to leave. The moral of the fable is to illustrate that once the “camel” (New York State’s $2 billion Smart Schools Bond Act) gets his nose in the tent, his body (competency based education) will soon follow. This is what we have with the Questar testing company, for which the NYSED Commissioner, MaryEllen Elia signed a $44 million contract (As part of the NYSED press release, Elia is quoted as saying, “Questar, Inc. will also provide computer based testing platforms that will help reduce the need for stand-alone field tests, and more importantly, help make our assessments even better instructional tools.” For the sake of brevity, let’s forget about the fact that the contract with Pearson is still in effect for the 2015–2016 school year and the multi-billion dollar British conglomerate, Pearson, will still be producing the spring 2016 NYS ELA and math tests.According to Questar’s April 1st publication (sadly, it is not an April fool’s prank), “Reimagining the Classroom Experience” ( What does Mr. Rohy mean by “individualized and personalized instruction”? He writes about a four-part implementation. First, eliminate the lecture-style (“one-to-many teaching approach”) by “giving every student a TABLET DEVICE (think iPad) that WIRELESSLY CONNECTS to ADAPTIVE SOFTWARE in the cloud…. instruction tailored to their individual learning styles and capability levels; and LEARNING MODULES (emphasis added) presented just to them.” Rohy continues, “Seamlessly integrate assessment with the instruction presented to each student on his or her TABLET (emphasis added). Again, Rohy makes a false generalization of our teachers by writing, “…most teachers do not teach this way (checking for understanding on an ongoing basis throughout a lesson) for two reasons: pedagogical momentum and a lack of technology that integrates instruction and ASSESSMENT (emphasis added) seamlessly so it doesn’t disrupt the flow of the class. With TABLETS (emphasis added) and the RIGHT SOFTWARE (emphasis added), this approach is possible on an INDIVIDUALIZED basis: after every five minutes of INDIVIDUALIZED TABLET-BASED INSTRUCTION (emphasis added), students would be presented with a brief series of questions that adapt to their skill level…” He continues, “The student would then be reassessed and the cycle would continue. With both the instruction and the assessments integrated into the same software and presented as a continuous ‘flow’ to each student, there is almost NO DIFFERENCE BETWEEN INSTRUCTION AND ASSESSMENT (emphasis added) in the mind of a child.” It appears that Mr. Rohy beleieves that teachers can be replaced with tablets and some nifty software.Mr. Rohy also posits that grade levels could be ELIMINATED, “because students progress through subject material at their own pace…” He ends the publication with, “It would be naive to think that such a holistic change to classroom structure and pedagogy would be easy. A number of SIGNIFICANT FUNDING (i.e. — $2 billion Smart Schools Bond Act), process, training, and political challenges would need to be addressed. He ends with a paraphrased quote of Apple CEO Tim Cook: “we must be ‘willing to lose sight of the shore’ and make UNCOMFORTABLE changes to make a significant leap forward in education.”The “reformers” of education want to replace “teacher” with “individualized instruction” and/or “tablet”. They believe that quality teachers can be seamlessly replaced by a tablet, some headphones, and WiFi. Let me show you a picture of what that means:The Smart Schools Bond Act (Would Bill Gates, President Obama, current US DOE Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, soon-to-be US Secretary John King, and Andrew Cuomo subject their own children to this education environment? No, nor should they and nor should we. I do not want my children to be connected to a tablet all day in the name of “individualized instruction”. I want a high quality teacher to teach my children.If Commissioner Elia believes that the opt out movement will become a moot point due to competency based education and assessments, she had better re-think her belief. Opt out numbers are sure to hit 500,000 this spring. When the 2016–2017 school year begins, opt outs will be close to 1,000,000.Please let me know your thoughts by leaving a comment. Follow me onTwitter: Facebook: Founding member of NYSAPE, Elementary/Middle School Principal, father of four children, education advocate/activist  blogger.

Anyone who knows me knows that I believe in Jesuit education. When asked why, I never say it’s because Jesuit universities perform well during March Madness (except Georgetown, of course). Nor do I suggest our schools are special because they are academic powerhouses. No, what makes Jesuit education distinctive for me are two more important ideas: a commitment to social justice and a clear measure of institutional success.During my time at Fordham University, I was able to immerse myself in the work of Fr. Ignacio Ellacuría, S.J. While best known for his assassination in 1989 at the hands of the U.S.-sponsored Salvadoran military, Ellacuría was also an important thinker on Jesuit education and its relationship to social justice.In a commencement address that he gave at Santa Clara University in 1982, Fr. Ellacuría noted that one of the aspects of every Jesuit university is “that it must be concerned with the social reality — precisely because a university is inescapably a social force: it must transform and enlighten the society in which it lives.” In other words, Jesuit universities have a social obligation, particularly to the poor and marginalized in our communities, as Ellacuría would claim and Catholic social teaching demands.Like Ellacuría, Fr. Peter-Hans Kolvenbach, S.J., the 29th Superior General of the Society of Jesus, gave an important talk at Santa Clara University on the importance of social justice and Jesuit higher education (2000). At one point during his address, Kolvenbach suggested that the first and foremost measure of the success of Jesuit education “lies in who our students become.”Taken together, and if taken seriously, Ellacuría’s call for social responsibility and Kolvenbach’s criterion of success summarize perfectly what I believe is distinctive about a Jesuit education. As Jesuit graduates, we cannot simply expect that our institutions promote social justice on their own; that would mean we are shirking our individual roles in the fight for social justice. When our institutions say that they judge their success on who we become, they call us to join them in transforming our society. Our schools ask us to become, in the words of Fr. Pedro Arrupe, S.J. (the 28th Superior General of the Society of Jesus), “men and women completely convinced that love of God which does not issue in justice for others is a farce.”What makes Jesuit education so special, then, is that graduates are equipped, asked, and expected to bring this commitment to justice with them wherever they go, in whatever field they find themselves, whoever they become.Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities (AJCU)Reflections on lives transformed by Jesuit education. Quotes, essays and profiles to prepare our hearts and minds for Pope Francis’ U.S. visit.

Having experienced 16 years of Jesuit education, I have come to better understand how the Jesuit, Catholic mission supports the universal betterment of human kind and transcends the restrictions of man-made religion. In Jesuit graduate, undergraduate and high school environments, I was encouraged and guided through a process of discernment and critical thinking that enhanced my ability to better understand the universal web that connects us all to a greater good. The result has allowed me to model values that promote a shared enlightenment with the lives I touch, with the ultimate goal of the good for all.As chief of a Jesuit university’s public safety department, I have found the opportunity and support to practice values-based policing. Our officers are encouraged to question department policy that is not consistent with the mission of the University of San Francisco. As a result, officers model social justice principles in working with students, faculty, staff and neighbors regarding law enforcement and safety related issues.Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities (AJCU)Reflections on lives transformed by Jesuit education. Quotes, essays and profiles to prepare our hearts and minds for Pope Francis’ U.S. visit.

A great article in The Guardian, “In the first place, introducing computer sciences into the general education curriculum establishes the difference between them and information technology. While information technology deals with the application of computer systems to solve the problems of the real world, computer sciences aim to understand and explore the world that we live in, both real and artificial, in computer terms. The different lies in including computation in the category of the sciences, on the same basis as physics, chemistry, biology, and mathematics. We’re not going to make any progress if we continue to see computer sciences as simply learning how to use computers, as opposed to understanding how they work, and not a subject in itself that contributes to students’ grades.Until everybody in our education system, from ministers down to teachers, understands this difference, we’re not going to be working toward any real goal. On the one hand, computer sciences actually have to be a real science. On the other, information technologies need to be consolidated as a teaching method that can be applied to other disciplines.In the United Kingdom, the decision to include computer sciences in the curriculum is based on This is a topic that I never tire of writing about: Understanding how Examples such as the United Kingdom, where computer sciences have been taught now for many years, provide an example for other countries to learn from. Those that remain outside the loop will lose out in the increasingly competitive world of the future.Professor at IE Business School and blogger at enriquedans.comOn the effect of technology on people, companies and the society as a whole. (Writing in Spanish at enriquedans.com since 2003)

Teachers, staff, and parents at Sweetwater Elementary in Volusia County, Florida, stood up and spoke out to represent not only their interests, but also those of their peers, students and community. Teachers at Sweetwater are well known for going above and beyond. They donate endless energy — locating resources, creating lesson plans, attending after hour functions, and communicating with parents. They have even cleaned and supplied student bathrooms at their own expense. After many countywide changes that hurt rather than helped, they knew they had to stop hoping for the best and begin advocating for their students. They focused on sanitary learning environments, fair pay, quality testing that empowers teachers and students, and adequate resources. They needed the district and the union to find a middle ground.Teachers encouraged the community to show support by using the hashtag Participants protested by “working to contract.” This meant arriving and leaving together within their contracted time rather than working unpaid hours. Sweetwater had support from current parents, past parents, students and retired teachers. Teachers demonstrated with picket signs on mornings prior to the work day. Parents started a Volusia Parent Petition and presented it to our school board. Stakeholders and teachers attended school board meetings regularly and voiced their concerns and expectations. They started conversations on Facebook and other social media sites. Local businesses displayed posters and the #RU4Ed stickers to show support. Many people shared inspirational pictures, quotes, and thoughts online to keep each other motivated. Those who couldn’t participate in events found other ways to show support for the campaign. They wrote to the local newspaper, sent emails to the school board, visited the superintendent, made It was our collective voice that enabled us to be heard. There is still much work to be done, but we are beginning to see a change. It’s working together with all stakeholders to advocate for education that has finally begun to transform our school and county.Teacher, NBCT, Origami Owl Jewelry Designer, VP of Sign-o-saurus of Daytona, Inc. A Learner, Teacher,  Child AdvocateRaising up the voices of educators, school staff, policy makers and leaders on issues that make a real difference at the school level.

Music education is, without even a close second, the most popular college major musicians pursue in the United States.The reasoning behind this is very simple — music education students have the highest rate of employment out all music majors just coming out of an undergraduate degree.Music education graduates are needed at just about every public and private K-12 institution in the US that has a music program. The job market is, unlike with many other college majors and degrees, exceptionally favorable for music education graduates.When making this list of the top music education colleges in the US, I looked at the employment rate of students who graduate with music education degrees at different schools, the depth and variety of research the specific program conducts, the strength, reputation, and publishing history of the faculty, what kinds of connections the school has to K-12 institutions in its area, the curriculum, and other factors, such as the overall strength of the school.But before we talk about the top 10 colleges for music education majors, keep in mind a couple things when choosing the music education school best for you.A music education program prepares you for statewide certification in the specific state you go to school in. So, while a school like Indiana University has a widely heralded and known music education program, if you don’t foresee yourself making a living in Indiana in your future, then perhaps it is not in your best interest to go to that particular school.That said, you can still get certified in any state if you meet the requirements, it’s just the requirements do vary from state to state and it could take some extra work outside of just your degree to meet the minimum requirements.There are other tips you should know about when choosing a career in music education — Ok, so let’s get into it — here are the top 10 colleges for music education majors in the US.Historically a premium epicenter for music education in the United States, the University of Wisconsin, Madison graduates students who approach multifarious topics in this broad field, including social policy issues as well as gender and racial equity issues.The three primary faculty members of UW Madison’s music education program are among the most widely read and published authors in music education today, Teryl Dobbs, Julia Eklund Koza, and Alison Margaret Hooper. The combined qualifications of these three professors are marvelous, with thoughtful publications in the Committed to training music education majors who are also passionate and strong at their respective instruments, all undergraduates must audition on their major instrument and continue to hone their skills while learning music education.UW-Madison’s music education program is known for being a place that embraces interpretive, qualitative research in the field of music education, and claims to be among the first programs for this field in the world to do so.Students at this program not only receive an exceptional education that will lead them to certification in the state of Wisconsin, they also become integrated into a prominent school that places exceptional emphasis into both the practical aspects of music education as well as its far-reaching philosophical challenges and explorations forward.One of the best values in music education, SUNY Fredonia has a nationally recognized music education program that consistently sends students to teaching institutions throughout the entire state of New York.Placing an exceptional emphasis and value on “Responsive Music Educators,” their core belief is summarized in their Becoming a responsive music educator is among the primary goals for students at SUNY Fredonia, who are taught to plan, instruct, reflect, and then respond to a given student’s needs.The faculty for music education at SUNY Fredonia is very well-regarded, including names such as Christian Bernhard, whose writings have been published in the Eastman School of Music’s Music Education program boasts some of the world’s finest faculty and teachers that have made seminal advancements in music education.The Chair of the Eastman Music Education department, Christopher Azzara, has made significant and impactful developments on the understanding of improvisation as it relates to learning music, frequently describing it as central to the process of a musician grasping the basic elements of music.Other faculty members include the highly esteemed Richard F. Grunow, a recognized expert in helping beginner musicians learning instruments. Within the last year alone, Grunow has spoken at Duquesne University, the University of Delaware, the Padova Conservatory of Music, and at the Baldwin Wallace University’s Conservatory of Music, among several other schools.Alumni of the Eastman School of Music music education program have become employed in public and private schools as well as in music organizations, colleges, and in community programs worldwide. Employment rate for graduates of this program is exceptionally high.An enduring and long-established leader in the field of music education, the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor prepares students for the highest level of teaching mastery at both the undergraduate and graduate levels.Known for having an intensive music education program, students are required to successfully learn multiple instruments in order to best prepare them for the real world of education in K-12 schools. Many of the faculty members at the school are equally at home in both music education and performance; the chair of their department, Michael Hopkins, is both a nationally recognized music education expert as well as a conductor and composer of over 40 published pieces of music for orchestra.Other notable professors include Colleen Conway, a heralded music education expert who has given presentations at international conferences as well as written books published by GIA and Oxford University Press.Graduates of the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor’s Music Education program are frequently placed into real world jobs immediately after graduation in Michigan and beyond.Perhaps the finest education college overall in the entire United States, the Teacher’s College is a graduate-only school at Columbia University in New York City. One of the oldest programs of its kind, students at the Teacher’s College are regularly lauded academicians; one of their Doctoral students was recently deemed the Students at the Teacher’s College are afforded the opportunity to work with K-12 students with exceptionally diverse backgrounds growing up. Some partnerships the school has taken on to help serve underprivileged youth include the The faculty at the Teacher’s College at Columbia University is exceptionally notable and accomplished; heralded professor Harold Abeles is a widely published music education researcher whose writings focus on a number of relevant, real-world topics, including gender stereotypes in music, arts organizations and their impact on the community, and more.Although this college is not for undergraduates looking to find a job in music education, this institution is among the most spectacular in the entire world for intensive research and focus into the theory and practice of this very broad field.Widely considered to be among the very finest programs in the entire country for vocal music education, the Westminster Choir College is an intriguing choice for the aspiring music ed. major. As the name suggests, the school’s most famous specialties lie within choral music education, choral music conducting, and vocal performance, invaluable strengths that will prepare a musician to be a great teacher to any K-12 student body.For the past 11 years, the Westminster Choir College’s music education students have enjoyed a 100% job placement rate upon successful graduation. The students at the school themselves are not separated from the performance majors, but rather, are seamlessly integrated into the ensemble and studio classes of the college.The voice faculty at Westminster is the largest voice faculty of any college in the world, which is a large reason why an emphasis on choral music education at this school exists.If you are looking to pursue music education either as a stand-alone major or in conjunction with arts management, conducting, composition, or another performance major, with the intent of landing a job in New Jersey upon successful graduation, look no further than this prestigious college.The Crane School of Music’s greatest legacy hinges on the strength of its superior music education department. In fact, the school’s namesake is derived from legendary founder Julia Ettie Crane, who originally founded the Crane School of Music in 1886 for the specific purpose of training public school teachers.In the state of New York, many, many music public school music teachers had their training at the Crane School of Music. I have personally read that 10% of all music educators in the United States are pedagogically related to someone who trained at the Crane School of Music. Considering there are hundreds of thousands of K-12 schools in the US with music programs, that is a compelling and ubiquitous legacy that SUNY Potsdam should take pride in.Like many of the top music education schools, Crane School of Music also boasts a near 100% favorable job placement rate for music education students. Many of the elite-level performance students double major in music education, making this school one of the smarter choices for the well-rounded musician looking to double major.Widely considered to boast one of the most eminent music education programs in the entire United States, Ithaca College frequently graduates students that, quite simply, get jobs on the local and national scale. In fact, for those who seek jobs upon graduation, Ithaca’s student job placement rate is close to 100%, a number that is only enjoyed by students at top music schools, such as at Northwestern and Indiana.The program is exceptionally prestigious and well-known in a state that has many competitively excellent music education programs, including those at SUNY Potsdam, SUNY Fredonia, and Columbia University, all of which are on this list.Approximately one-half of the students at Ithaca are either sole music education majors or are music education majors with a joint degree in performance. At the Master’s degree level, permanent New York State certification is awarded to all successful graduates of the program.In terms of finding a job after certification, its difficult to beat a prestigious school like Ithaca in New York — students here are able to choose from so many teaching options, from wealthy districts in Northern New York to urban settings in Brooklyn. The practical advantages of a music education from this school are limitless.The faculty is also among the largest in size of all music education programs in the country. There are 32 members of music education faculty at the Ithaca College School of Music whose interests range from the aesthetic and social functions of music education in schools to the usage of technology in 21st-century music education.“JacobsSchoolofMusic“. Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via Wikimedia Commons.Long considered one of the foremost colleges for music education in the entire US, Indiana University’s music education graduates frequently enjoy a near 100% employment rate at various Indiana K-12 schools. The program not only provides an exceptionally well-rounded curriculum to its music education majors, but also allows students to choose a music education focus in one of four major areas: choral, general, band, and orchestra. No matter what your goals as a student are at this major music education hub, you will find a program that fits your interests well.An exceptionally well-rounded institution Additionally, the schools provides students with the opportunity to work with major music education associations as well as with public music teachers who already have years of experience under their belt. Student apprentice teaching, of course, is a requirement of all music education majors as well.At the graduate level, the level and depth of research that students explore at IU are fascinating, rich, and exceptionally varied. Some topics that the college’s published The faculty at the program is second to none, and includes notable music education researchers and professors such as Brent Gault, past president of the Organization of Kodaly Educators, and Patrice Ward-Steinman, a widely published author in the field of music education.Photo by Northwestern University has been among the highest leaders in music education for the last several decades, producing many thousands of exceptional music teachers that can be found working throughout the US and beyond.Producing music education studies that are Students who pursue a music education career upon successful completion of the music education degree from Northwestern University successfully find jobs shortly after graduation. According to Northwestern University, their music education job placement rate is actually 100% every single year.While this seems like a bold claim to make, this figure actually makes a lot of sense. Northwestern University has connections to over 60 Chicago area public K-12 schools that regularly employ graduates of Northwestern into their program. If you are looking to get involved right away with real K-12 music students at real schools in both a major city as well as suburban Illinois, Northwestern may just provide for you the exact experience you require.At the PhD level, students also have access to one of the most innovative centers for music education research in the entire country, the CSEME, which stands for the Center for the Study of Education and Musical Experience. Some dissertation focuses the Center has presented in the last two decades include an examination of peer tutoring in the United States, relationships between what music a student likes and what his teacher likes, and an analysis of software relating to the education of jazz music students.Overall, the program at Northwestern University is among the most innovative, in-depth, and practical of its kind in the entire nation.Prize-winning Pianist | Award-winning Composer | Teaching Artist | Musicologist | MusictherapistKOSMAS LAPATAS

Recently, my mind had been on fire. As my internship in the professional world wrapped up, all I could think of was The list goes on. All I wanted to do was magically become 25, live in San Francisco, and be a badass product manager or investor. College seemed constricting, rather than appealing. Feeling slightly confused, I decided to watch something that I hadn’t seen in a few months.After watching this, I came to an important realization.During my gap year, I had become so entranced with the world of startups and technology that I forgot I’m only 18, which meant that I didn’t have to worry about a career at the immediate moment. Having a career you care about is only one part of the equation — the equation of how to have a good life. I only have the obligation to myself to be serendipitous, embrace freedom, and learn as much as I can from different experiences.I constantly preach to people that the gap year was the best thing that happened to me. Yet, I continually forget that it was a serendipitous moment that led to that. In other words, Looking back on it, it’s pretty ironic that I viewed college as constricting, as opposed to liberating. It is the first time in my life I will not be living at home, with my parents. That is a huge moment in time and incredibly freeing. You have to learn how to take care of yourself and be a real adult. The early phases of adulthood might be the most free of your entire life. You can dive into projects that may have little importance later on in life. You can bum around a foreign country for an extended period of time. In the end, these sorts of experiences will have a much greater affect on your career and life than sitting at home and reading books about technology or investing. When I was in New Zealand, I jumped off an airplane from 15,000 ft. in the air, and it was insane. Absolutely nuts. But I embraced my freedom, and I need to continue to do so.For most people, college is important. As Michael learns at the end of the clip, comparing yourself to otherwise exceptional people doesn’t really apply.What I will learn in school will primarily be outside the classroom. I will learn from the people I choose to surround myself with, both young and old. My peers will be my best friends and co-workers for the rest of my life. I can seek advice from mentors who have forged the path before me. Most importantly, I can learn about topics that matter and ideas that I find interesting. I can work on problems I find fascinating and enjoy. And when I graduate four years down the road, I can look back on the experience with real fondness because I know I genuinely had a good time.Learning 

by Scott AndersonOver a year ago, we became a Founding Partner in The The articles are a great public affirmation, and a peek into the workings of a school that dares to be different. It is representative of the magnitude of effort being done by the Urban Assembly and UA Maker staff, and I’d like to give a shoutout to them for all the incredible hard work they do not only to educate our kids, but help push the expectations that these young adults have of themselves, regardless of the expectations that their parents or society has of them.What’s more telling is that out of those jobs that didn’t require higher education, those within the tech economy The burgeoning tech and creative economy, which Yet, how does Common Core address the need for skills necessary to take part in one of the fastest growing skilled labor marketplaces? It is representative of a clear problem where traditional education is not meeting the needs of these young adults so they can join society in productive, progressive ways, and realize the promise of the American Dream, which some might argue is the opportunity to provide a better life for yourself, and to have options.This is why the UA Maker Academy is so different and so bold, in that it provides access to resources, tools (Mayor De Blasio, Fred Wilson and the Department of Education have announced a brave new initiative called This is a crucial step for diversifying and redefining what educational opportunity means in today’s economy where the national standards may fall short. As Similarly, this mirrors the CTE mission of the Urban Assembly, which is to engage industry directly with schools, teachers, and curriculum development to collaborate in real-time about meeting everyone’s objectives around education, opportunity, and social advancement.Initiatives like Maker Academy and Computer Science for All represent more than just a new opportunity for the young makers and their families. They represent opportunity for concerned citizens, engaged community members, industry partners, brave teachers and mentors in the hopes that this school can provide a future-facing education as well as an opportunity to participate in the tech economy.Intersection is an urban experience company that combines expertise in technology, UX and media to improve life in cities around the world.

This post is inspired by a As author and After launching and running a Startup founders are unanimous about this: the only time when they’re actually interested to increase their skills in a certain field, is when they absolutely need these skills to get to the next stage of their project. Learning for learning does not work, we need to put the learning in perspective with a goal to achieve. Translated into the education world, I believe the way students would benefit the most from a training is by actually applying the knowledge they’re learning to the creation of “something”, while they’re learning it.At startup accelerators, mentors are usually former or actual entrepreneurs, that have gone through the same challenges that young entrepreneurs are currently facing. For a couple of hours, or more, they share their experience, expertise with the accelerated founders, while challenging them to Again, while I’m a big fan of MooCs and online videos, I strongly believe they don’t help developing creative problem solving skills in teams. One of the most amazing thing that happens in startup accelerators (that have cohorts) is the collaboration, even friendship, that naturally happens with the founders, even though they usually have very different backgrounds. Most investors agree that the best entrepreneurial teams have complementary founders. However, most schools insist on siloing students by degrees while they should do whatever they can to mix them up.Of course, I’m sure that there’s still a lot to be done to innovate pedagogies these days and Studiio is going to be a live experiment of that. If you like what we’re doing, don’t hesitate to share or even propose ideas :)Innovation Transmitter / Founder  Chief Education Officer L’Académie de la Transformation Numérique

Working in start-up technology and working in education differ vastly in the way they operate. The initial goal for a start-up is to get the product out there as fast as you can, even if it’s not perfect. You fail fast so you can succeed faster. Education, on the other hand, relies heavily on time tested methods. Trying something new involves a lot more hemming and hawing, a lot more speculative analysis and results driven implementation. Education is rooted in traditionalism. It’s a slow moving institution. Education doesn’t have the same sense of urgency that the corporate world does, let alone the start-up world. When you combine the fast-paced world of a tech start-up and the conventionally established world of education a natural tug of war ensues. How do we strike a balance that works best for students, teachers and parents?We’re grappling with the fact that technology and education are necessary together. The whole world is now a realm of technology. We can’t possibly leave education behind. Especially when the majority of the work force relies heavily on the use of new technologies. The question is how do we use technology as the medium for education without sacrificing an established institution? We’ve tried putting traditional education online, but the results called for something a bit more creative. The latest trend is blended learning. Which seems like a happy medium, a little bit of this, a little bit of that. Blended learning seems like a simple solution to the problem, but it still comes with a lot of unknowns. How well does it really work? Does it really get results, improve test scores, and boost engagement?Right now EdTech is a mumblin’ jumblin’ mess of new methods, creative innovations, new technologies, programs, and apps. It’s lacking structure and there’s a simultaneous push for new methods and a pull for classic stuff. The marriage of education and technology is crucial, but just like any healthy relationship there has to be give and take, clear communication and trust. We’re just trying to find the best ways to make it work. The way in which students and educators will benefit and thrive from it.Two things that we place a lot of emphasis on here at MathCrunch are personalized learning and ownership of learning. Technology used in the right way has the potential to produce ownership and to tailor learning to personal styles. These two aspects of education are extremely important and easily complimented by the use of technology in the classroom. Take an app like yours truly for example. Students use MathCrunch on their own time to complete assignments. They have the access to the learning and answers they need to succeed and they have all the power to access that knowledge themselves. Furthermore, tutors tailor their teaching to the needs and skills of the student. Boom. Personalized learning.Education is more than just a learning issue though, it is riddled with social, economic, cultural, and political problems. Software and technology isn’t going to solve these tough educational problems, but it is the best medium to begin the journey.We’re working hard everyday to solve these incredibly hard problems, and being the optimists that we are, we truly believe that all this is leading to a brighter future and an educational landscape filled with opportunity, engagement, and learning.Learn Math Stress FreeEveryone’s Private Tutor

At the end of the last year I learned about the VRT Startup has its own diagnose for what’s happening with this generation: The organisation is actuallyThe social factor at REC is principal. Each medialab is located and focused on a different city in Flanders: The medialabs invite locals (and non locals, like expats) Both VRT and REC have something in common: the YouTube generation (using VRT label) doesn’t understand why content has to be distributed lineally (same content for everyone at the same time). Neither why text, audio and video needs to be separated.Old ways of doing are not valid anymore. Old-school know how can’t give answers to new questions every day. I had the opportunity to meet As soon as we started talking, we recognised a part of ourselves in each other: two professionals of broadcast media concerned by the absolute Tom and his team at Quindo are both That’s probably the headline of our conversation but many other interesting (to me at least) ideas popped up:I could keep going, but probably off topic. As a conclusion I will insist in this idea: experimentation and education requires disposition to fail. Founder of Voizzup, turning data into continuous improvement for radio. Formerly radio Programme Director — It’s not in the technology, it’s in the experimental mindset

Lately. I have been hearing many people touting the benefits of a liberal arts education. These individuals say that employers are now seeking graduates with liberal arts degrees because they believe that these graduates are more well-rounded than their counterparts who went to state universities with a more specialized track to attain their degree. As someone who attended a liberal arts college, I would agree that this education promotes versatility by allowing students to take a wide variety of courses rather than focusing on the narrow field of a student’s major. However, I am not sure that this is actually helpful in today’s workforce.Here is a little more on my background. I majored in Kinesiology at a small, liberal arts college. I chose a degree in Kinesiology because I wanted to work in a field related to physical fitness or nutrition, such as a personal trainer, physical therapist, or a dietitian. When I graduated from college, I took the exam to become an American College of Sports Medicine-certified Health Fitness Specialist. After I received this certification, I worked as a personal trainer at a gym in West Des Moines.I do not feel that the courses that I took in college adequately prepared me to be a personal trainer. Sure, I learned the ACSM basics of how frequently to exercise, how many sets and repetitions to complete of an exercise, how long in duration a workout should be, and the importance of combining strength and cardio. But it was all surface material, and did not go into the specifics of what strength training or cardio exercises to perform, or how to do these exercises with proper form. I learned very little about how to prevent injury, and even though it is a well-known fact that nutrition goes hand-in-hand with any fitness program, we spent very little time learning about nutrition, and only learned the basics of the USDA nutrition guidelines.So, you may be wondering: “What did you learn?” The answer? I learned how to be politically correct. I took courses in American History where we were given an essay assignment where we only had two choices for our essay topic: The Autobiography of Malcolm X, or The Feminine Mystique by Betty Friedan. This course was taught by a Liberal, Feminist professor, and these two books were assigned course reading. Now, even though I disagree with many of the opinions espoused by these works, I am not opposed to studying these books and critically analyzing them. However, I think that these authors should be countered with opposing viewpoints. For example, I would have loved to write an essay about Phyllis Schlafly, an influential Conservative activist during the time period covered by this history class. But that was not an option. So instead, I wrote an essay that I did not believe in just to appease my Liberal professor. Sure, I got a good grade on my essay, but I didn’t feel good about it because I didn’t believe in what I wrote. Furthermore, I couldn’t help but notice the preferential treatment the Liberal, Feminist students received in this class. The professor called on them more often than the other students, and anytime a male student would comment on the class discussion, these students would visibly roll their eyes and audibly sigh and call these students chauvinists justbecause they were male. The professor just sat back and allowed these male students to be bullied because she agreed with these Liberal, Feminist students.As a Spanish minor, I took a course in Latin American Culture. My professor was from Chile, and was another Liberal, Feminist professor. The main points that I took away from her lectures and the course material were that America Is Bad, All The Problems in Latin America are the United States’ Fault, and Americans Are Evil, Greedy People. I had to bite my tongue to keep from asking her: “So, if America is so terrible and awful, why are you here teaching at this college?”I also minored in Psychology, and in my Psychology classes, I remember the huge controversy whenever the subject of Sigmund Freud came up. The Liberal, Feminist students were appalled that our professors would even mention Freud in their coursework, because, after all, Freud’s theories have been proven to be incorrect and Freud was a sexist. While I agree that many of Freud’s theories probably were quackery, I think that some of them do have some grains of truth, especially if you study them in the context of the time. Whether or not your agree with Freud, I believe that it is important to study his theories because he was the founder of modern psychology. To exclude Freud from all Psychology studies is just another form of thought control, and is an attempt to whitewash history.Let’s not forget about the sex education taught at the college. This was outside of the classroom, but was sponsored by the student health clinic. My personal belief when it comes to sex education at the junior high and high school level is that it does not belong in the school, but rather should be determined by parents and families, because there are as many different philosophies about sexual values and health as there are family units. At the college level, I do not have a problem with sexual health being taught by a health clinic. Cornell had a night called Latex, Laughs, and Lemonade that was very informative, and I feel, appropriate for the audience. However, I objected to another event that occurred the day that I visited Cornell as a senior in high school for Prospective Student Day. On that day, I recall that there was a Sexual Health Easter Egg Hunt on campus, where the health clinic hid plastic eggs around campus filled with condoms and sexual health facts. As I said before, I don’t have a problem with sexual education being made available at colleges and universities. What bothered me was that this event was held on a day when many prospective students and their parents were visiting the campus, and what was even worse was that this event was an Easter egg hunt, which was attaching sexual health to a Christian holiday. I felt that this was in very poor taste and offensive.Another problem that I have with my alma mater really cannot be blamed on the college, but rather stems from the inefficiency of the public education system in our high schools. I felt that a significant amount of time was spent playing catch-up for students who did not learn the proper foundations in high school. I knew a student who was just learning what a thesis was during her junior year of college in a speech and communications class. This same student bragged during her senior year that she “didn’t know what a semicolon was or how to use it” and she was “proud of that”. Another friend of mine didn’t know how to write an article summary…sadly, this was during her junior year of college. This is not the college’s fault, but rather comes from these skills not being taught in our high schools. Why? Because, like in college, the focus in the public education system has become teaching students to be politically correct, rather than teaching them how to think critically and to analyze material in an objective way.If I had it to do over again, would I choose this college? That’s hard to say. At times, I wish that I had looked into other options. However, something tells me that this college is not unique, and that other institutions of higher learning are in the same, or even worse, predicament. This concerns me, because I know that if this school is “one of the best”, then what must be going on at some of the other colleges and universities? Luckily, I came from a strong background of political and civic involvement, and therefore I had a solid foundation for my belief system that I knew how to defend. But not everyone is able to stand so firmly in their convictions, and they are more easily swayed by this environment of being politically correct. This is a frightening trend that we need to be aware of, and we need to do everything that we can to prepare students so that they do not fall into this trap when they enter a college or university.A government that is big enough to give you everything you want, is also strong enough to take everything you have.

This year, I finished four years of design education at the University of California, Berkeley. I emerged with a B.A. in Landscape architecture and plan on practicing in my field of study for a few years before returning to graduate school for City Planning and Urban Design.These statements seem so simple and yet, with diploma in hand, I was and still am in constant turmoil over what it means to be practicing landscape architecture.“What is landscape architecture?” In reality, what I have just listed does not even begin to touch on the complexity of what landscape architects or designers do. It is a practice that involves aesthetics, engineering, environmental consciousness, and an acute knowledge of how to put all those things together in a way that will facilitate use by humans or animals. It seemed much more simple in school.So what is it like being in a design program? Or more accurately, All the design studios I took could be summed as a series of design assignments. We would receive an open-ended prompt, such as: We were allowed to run wild with our ideas. If we chose, we could have put in a Ferris wheel or replaced the existing land with pools of varying sizes if it suited the narrative we were trying to build.Design school is all about “selling” your idea — no matter how bad in reality it actually would be. I have seen some So why did students in design school create these marketable but unrealistic buildings when their job was to design objects and places that would hopefully be built someday? I attributed this disease to the current state of design studio culture.The term “What is this myth? It is a belief that someone would know a place well enough to design something for it after one or two site visits and light online research. We subscribe to this idea because we would rather be in studio working on our designs rather than being outside, observing and interacting with potential users. This belief that we students can understand a people and a place by skimming contributes to gaudy, unhealthy design by allowing us to project our own visions and ideals onto a place while justifying it with shallow reasons. Miyazaki Hayao, a well-known Japanese animator, described this best in an andI thought his critiques applied just as well to what I saw in my design program. After all, landscape design is supposed to reflect and contribute to reality.How can we know a place and its users through a screen? We can’t, and it is why the things we design, if put in reality, are people-adverse. Sure, they may look beautiful, but they can only exist within the computer. Instead of encouraging students to understand how to create spaces for people, design studio culture locks students inside and away from interacting with people unlike themselves.This turning inward has also tipped the balance of (what I believe to be) the core tenants of the field: environmentalism, social justice, and beauty.It wasn’t just studio that contributed to the imbalance, but the choice of classes required by the college as well.At UC Berkeley, landscape architecture is taught with a heavy emphasis on learning drawing techniques to express ideas rather than learning how to develop said ideas. In fact, we are What happens when the class choices are so heavily skewed? Students create beautiful but useless designs because in critiques, a bad idea can be given praise if the rendering is convincing. A high level of skill in presentation is certainly necessary (and is an important part of being a designer), but when that becomes the most important component of a project, students do not learn to place importance on feasibility and the actual implementation of a project. Perhaps that is just one of the natural pitfalls of Contributing to this are the professors that tell students that because “it’s only for school,” it is perfectly acceptable to go wild with their ideas without understanding how it would work in the real world. Worse yet, because students produce for school alone, they seek to gain the approval of those critiquing them without any second throught as to why they do the things that they do. Ask a student why they decided to render something the way they did, and their answer will usually be along the lines of “because it looks good” instead of “because the foliage will be this colour in the fall.”Design studio culture has bred complacency — the inability to question the way we look at people and sites, the way we represent our ideas, and the long-term effects of our proposed designsAfter four years in a design education, I uncovered many negative aspects as to how my particular design program is run but also (with the help of a few working experiences and long conversations with professors), I have also found many positives and arguments against my own complaints.As much as I blasted studio culture for breeding complacency, the set-up also fosters creativity. What do you get when you place a group of artistic people who care about and have grown up around nature in a confined space for hours at a time? You get a cross-pollination of ideas that you wouldn’t have gotten otherwise. You also get a mix of energy from the young undergraduates and the varied knowledge of the graduate students. It has always contributed to a maturation of craft as well as the kind of mental and physical support that one needs as a student. It really does work, but we just have to be careful about using it in moderation.Instead of enforcing the idea that in order to be a good designer, we have to spend all day in the studio, we should encourage the idea of learning through experiencing the outside world. It’s a concept that I struggled with all through my school career, but as I adventure more and more away from the studio, I find that by experiencing different kinds of spaces, I am enforcing and building upon what I have learned in the classroom.I had always blasted the theoretical approach to learning landscape architecture for encouraging unrealistic designs.During my internship, I lamented to my boss, Professor John Northmore Roberts, what I saw as a failure on the part of UC Berkeley’s landscape architecture program. I complained about how we weren’t really taught to build things in the real world because our classes weren’t focused on practical skills (we only had one, ineffective construction drawing class) or failed to put into practice what we were required to learn (a planting design class that had no practical portion).In reply, John reminded me that I was in a design program, learning to be a designer and not a construction worker or a landscaper. Sure, having knowledge and practical experience of those skills are useful, but it is not a landscape architect’s main job. By keeping the landscape architecture education more theoretical than practical, it readies us to be designers that can provide the framework for a project. Knowing the name of a specific bolt is useful but not necessary. In a real design project, a team will comprise of professionals with specifics fields of study. It is necessary for the landscape architect to have an healthy understanding of related fields, but it would be redundant to learn every practical aspect of them.In defense of theoretical education, John also pointed out to me that another reason professors encourage their students to go wild with their ideas is that creativity is important in the field. A designer that only focuses on the practical will be afraid to innovate, and without innovation, there will be no progress. There is no reason to focus on the practical constraints of landscape design in school, because designers will naturally adjust their designs in practice if they want to see their project built.Every designer has sat through a critique (crit). At every crit, a reviewer will say you should have made the stairs wider and right after that reviewer has spoken, someone else will suggest that it is better narrower. Your professor will then agree with one side even though he said it was fine as it is a day ago. The truth is, everyone has their own opinions. Some are more valid than others, but as I have learned, you know your design better than anyone. You (hopefully) did your research and decided on that width of stairs for a reason. If someone reviewing you has a different opinion, it is perfectly fine to disagree if you believe their justification is not as strong as yours. Seniority does not equate to “being right.” Even professors and reviewers learn something new every day.As I’ve mentioned before, there is a life beyond design studio, and it’s important to take part in it. Interacting with humans and animals, reading books, engaging in philosophical discussions, and taking dance classes all make us better designers, because they connect us and our designs to the real world. Undertaking a variety of activities also opens up our minds creatively. I can’t cite any studies, but some of the best designers I know have many interests outside of design that they bring into their work. It makes them passionate about what they do and gives them a kind of speciality on the subject at hand.We don’t exist in a bubble, and neither should what we design!This has been my relationship with landscape architecture thus far — questions, contemplation, and a vague understanding of what I should be doing to further my craft. As a result of all those struggles, I am now traveling in a foreign country (South Korea). I just spent two months working on farms throughout the northern countryside and am now interning at a landscape architecture office in Seoul (I don’t even speak Korean).It has shaped me, and now I hope I can grow with it.Traveling storyteller and part-time fermentation artist; currently exploring the medium of writing as a companion to photography — yolantasiu.com

For my 12th grade English class, I had to create a video with a vision for education. In the video I created, I established the purpose of school. Ideally there should be a balance of the three purposes: commercial, cognitive, and moral. There are specific ways to achieve these goals, and I briefly talked about how. This video gives a vision of what a successful education should look like.SLAAuthentic voices in education. Join us: j.mp/join-synapse.

I have trained in San Francisco Ballet School’s pre-professional program; I attended a School of American Ballet summer intensive in New York City on full scholarship; I danced with Boston Ballet as a Trainee; and I am currently member of Orlando Ballet’s second company. I also attended an international ballet seminar in Copenhagen, Denmark and danced at my small, private liberal arts school, Skidmore College.In all of my pre-professional training experiences (except for at my non-conservatory college), I have to say that, in many ways, I am disappointed with the quality of dance education I have received. I am no exception, as evidenced by the many talented young dancers whose schools have failed them. Eating disorders and burnout were the two biggest threats in my teenage years. Now I see dancers, trainees and second company members, who are on the brink of their professional careers but will no doubt be overlooked by their directors: the aloof archons who will hire from outside of their own companies’ supposedly prestigious training institutions.Some issues I have perceived in my experience:Artistry is born of emotion, which, when we are young, starts out as the love for the art form. Too often, this love is quelled by the tyrannical training methods we endure. We cannot suppress our love of rapturous movement until we have perfect lines, because then we will never learn how to move. We will only imitate and, eventually, fail because the dance is not sustained from within. If our movement is superficial, if we determine its quality only by mirrors and our instructor’s perceptions, the doubts and the insecurities will replace the inner glow. I have seen the light that each dancer has flicker and die in the institutions that do nothing to sustain it — and nothing to nurture and preserve its bodily instrument of expression.Hundreds of company ranks could be filled with the talented dancers whose schools failed them. There would be more choreographers, more styles, more companies, more collaborations. There would be blooming cycle in our society: more dance, more exposure, more interest, more talent, more creation.Ballet is not dead. But, because of the low success rate of its most avid apostles— its budding artists — the art form does little to help itself survive.Currently interning at Pointe magazine in New York. I have a B.A. in English Literature, an aspiration to write for a living, and passion for all things art.

Will Beacons transform education? Technology, especially mobile, is having a profound effect on education. According to a survey by the Software and Information Industry Association (SIAA), almost all students have ready access to a mobile device, single or a shared device pool. Student access to mobile devices has now opened the door to a new teaching technology: location-based computing using beacons.According to a Handbook is provided to the student so that they can get familiarized with the institution and its surroundings. Very few students read the handbook. Hence, the handbook distributed through the beacon technology will help students receive information at the right place and the right time.Beacons can be used to restrict device access at various locations. When a teacher enters with a beacon, all student devices having the textbook app, are restricted to the textbook app .When a guest speaker is interacting with the students, the paper based material distribution becomes messy and consumes a lot of time. With the help of beacon technology, the materials can be distributed when the speaker refers to it. It will also help students to pay attention to the reading material creating higher learning value.Use beacons to inform students of the discounts on stationery, books etc. Students visit the bookstore quite often to buy books or any other related materials. The discounts that are being offered by the book store can be sent to the students who are passing by .Tracking buildings in new campus is an arduous task. So, the beacon placed around the campus will help students track the buildings.Parents are always worried about their children even when they are at school. They can be a part of their child’s education progress . They can view videos and photos related to the activity being performed by the child. They can also visit the place their child has visited in the campus. We will be discussing such an example later in the blog.The students can be sent notification related to the time tables changes. The changes will be received by the students can immediately be made a note of. They can also be informed of any other notices as well.Notify when the cafeteria is over crowded and also when discounted meals are being offered.The students who are new to the campus, need to get familiarized with the campus. So, with the help of beacons the students can be given a self guided tour around the campus allowing them to take their time understanding the surrounding of the campus.Beacons can be used for conducting games such as scavenger hunt around the campus. Beacon technology is also being used in museums to conduct scavenger hunt to increase the involvement of the visitors.Educational institutions are already using this technology. Lets take a look at Woodland Education and how they adopted beacon technologyWoodland education based in Melbourne, is a childcare institution carefully designed to take education to the next level. With the help of Xplor mobile applications integrating Estimote beacons helps parents to be more involved in the child’s education and progress. Woodland deployed beacon technology to help support the daily operations. Beacons allows parents automatic check in and check out in places where their child has spent time on woodland campus.Xplor educators share a moment or idea about the child. It contains text, photos and videos shared in real time, everyday. This allows parents to be involved in their children’s activities.Platform for building IoT Experience.

I feel as if I start anywhere else other than addressing this seemingly odd comparison right from the start, you might not keep reading. So, let me put your fears to rest; I am not advocating that classrooms have blackjack tables, strip clubs, bars open 24 hours a day, and/or any of the other wild and crazy pieces of debauchery present in Vegas; however, I am going to suggest that there are five major lessons we can learn from Las Vegas which can help improve classroom and school culture across the country. And yes, this is the sort of nerdy thinking I did during my recent spring break trip to Las Vegas, so I hope you enjoy.There is a reason why so many different types of people with so many widely ranging interest all converge on this party capital of the world: there is something for everyone. Be it going to a show, playing golf, having dinner, visiting the pools, gambling at the tables, relaxing at the bars, or other more risque options, Vegas offers something for everyone, but what is even more impressive is that, within each of those options, there are options for everyone. Like to gamble? Okay, what is your choice: blackjack, poker, slots, craps, sport’s book…or so many more? Not sure how much you want to spend? That’s okay, there are tables from $5 to $50,000. Like food? Okay, what is your choice: the food court at the Monte Carlo or MGM, Chinese restaurants, fun English pubs, steakhouses…or so many more? And again, you could spend as little at ten bucks to as much as $200–$300 a person. What’s the point? There is something for everyone and even within each “something” there are endless choices. So, what if our classrooms had something for everyone and even choices within those choices? Might more students be more engaged?…it works for Vegas!Spend any time wandering the casino floor and your ears will be serenaded with the joyous sounds of collaborative cheers (and screens) of bliss (and pain) as strangers from around the country come together in unison in hopes of taking down the house. While there, I played a lot of blackjack and spent countless hours high-fiving strangers, screaming with them in both excitement and pain as we worked together to win as much as we could. And yet, how often do we let our students do the same? What if within our classes (and our schools) we had more opportunities for strangers to collaborate not because we tell them to but because the nature of the task “requires” and promotes this sort of approach?On Saturday of my trip, I had the unique and interesting opportunity to spend the day at Liquid at the Aria, a pool and club all in one (yes, for those of you who know me, you can only image how “well” I fit in there — somehow my argyle sweater vests weren’t “appropriate”). As uncomfortable as I was, I had the chance to do one of the things I love most: analyze human behavior. What I saw, at least the thing that caught my attention most, was a man, there by himself, literally doing laps around the pool, but he wasn’t walking or running these laps…he was dancing. I promise you; I cannot make this up. This guys had all the moves and even, at times, danced for stretches of time while having his drink balanced on his head (true story). And yet, no one thought anything of him; in fact, as he passed different groups of people, those people often joined in with him, dancing together. So, imagine if students dared to try something so crazy. They would be chastised for years to come. Why? Because schools judge…and for so many reasons (grades, socialization, making or not making the team, having or not having a boy/girlfriend — I could go on and on). So, I challenge each of us (myself included) to do what we can to create a culture in our schools that doesn’t judge, one that simply has people dancing together, regardless of the circumstances.There is no downtime in vegas. There are no moments when life isn’t buzzing, spinning at thousands of RPM. Employees cannot afford to have a day when they are tired, distracted, or anything less than their absolute best. In fact, their livelihood (and promotion potential) is directly proportionate to their ability to constantly be at the top of their game, delivering service and a performance that engage the customer in a way that leaves him/her totally energized AND coming back for more. And yet, and I will just speak for myself here, I have taken “days off” in the classroom. I have had those days where I know, point blank, my performance didn’t leave my students energized nor wanting to come back for more. So, what if we changed that? What if, every period of every day, teachers pushed to put on a performance that imparted knowledge, engaged students, energized the crowd and left everyone wanting to come back for more? Join me in a renewed commitment to bringing the A Game to the classroom daily!Need I say anything more? Let’s stop “doing school”, forcing our students to “play the school game” and just have fun learning WITH our students. I don’t know about you, but I am past the “doing school” days and just want to learn with my kids. Will you join me?TEACHER, ed leader, thinker, writer, collaborator | social media for Ss advocate | Gates TAC 14–16 | #ECET2 chat co-mod | 

It’s time to apply our hacking skills to education. We need a mashup of work and education — work and education cannot stand separately in a world of quickly shifting tasks, roles, and careers. I’ve had the chance to write and speak to audiences about a Whether we evolve to a world where we have “Even if a master’s degree is the goal, education shouldn’t flatline at graduation (note that we call graduation “Success and a viable livelihood will fall to those who manage their learning as carefully as they, hopefully, have managed their careers. It’s not enough to do your current work well. You need to be preparing for the Technology platforms are likely to support us as we manage our learning. But we can’t just rely on LinkedIn or other tools. They don’t start early enough in our careers and it’s really a mindset that needs to change. I was thrilled to discover that there are more than three times as many “high school career counselor” positions open than “high school college counselor” positions (data from LinkedIn — I’m interpreting these openings as signs of growth rather than attrition). High school, or earlier, is an opportunity to help people learn to understand the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed for different work, how to find that work, and how to prepare for the next step.To the extent that there is a viable ecosystem, rather than each of us trying to do this on our own, we will be more successful. Universities, the broader education ecosystem made up of platforms like Universities are well positioned to create strong scaffolds to support lifelong learning, though I agree that What universities haven’t done is change how these programs come into being, how they will be What if universities had evolving programs where alumni and others could keep coming back? These programs could be developed in partnership with employers, freelance marketplaces, job boards, technology providers (like IBM in the example above), and niche online educators. Some learners might approach the university for a formal degree, others might return for a refresher, and some others might ask to have current capabilities evaluated in preparation for approaching an organization that doesn’t care about degrees, but does care about performance. (These different activities exist, but we’ve yet to bundle them, or even identify them as an ecosystem. It’s a lot to ask of a new member of the workforce to navigate these systems individually. If the universities won’t, then I expect LinkedIn or similar will.We aren’t starting from scratch. Many individuals are formally developing their personal brands. (Accounting firm PwC even has an Universities are taking initial steps with shorter, more focused degrees, certificates, and open-enrollment. This provides the opportunity to create “mosaics” of capabilities with finer detail than might be offered by an undergraduate major, or even a major and then a master’s degree.More employers are evaluating work product rather than degrees. Recruiters are using I look forward to a day where we use similar sophisticated analytics to evaluate learning activities. For example, the The What I don’t see yet, and why I make this call for a Grand Challenge, is a trigger that will bring these efforts together. Perhaps it will be the talent gap (McKinsey suggests talent undersupply is costing between $800 million and $1 trillion — even just considering four sectors of the U.S. economy, Author of The Plugged-In Manager. Chair of the Management Dept. at Santa Clara Univ in the Silicon Valley. People  orgs working with technology.

More than 200 people will be attending, including 125 students representing 52 She’s the First chapters from high schools, colleges, and universities across the U.S., and one very special guest from Guatemala. Ana Teresa is a She’s the First Scholar who is the first in her family of seven siblings to graduate elementary school. Though her parents didn’t have the opportunity to attend school, Ana Teresa has fought endlessly for her education. Now, she attends a top international school in Guatemala, where she has learned English as her third language and is one of only a few indigenous students in attendance.Students will experience panels and workshops that strengthen their leadership, chapter management skills, and grasp on international affairs. The highly anticipated closing keynote conversation features She’s the First has raised more than $2 million to date, funding more than 1,300 years of education for 500 girls in 10 countries. Simultaneously, it offers a current network of 125 campus chapters (soon to be nearly 200 chapters) a unique, high-touch leadership and global awareness training program.She’s the First provides need-based accommodations and travel stipends to make the Summit accessible to interested student participants. Given that 100 percent of chapter-raised funds support girls’ scholarships, the Summit would not be possible without key sponsors: Unilever, American Express, and the Paul Foundation, and major in-kind support from Microsoft, PwC, Viacom, and Erin Condren.For more details, visit ***She’s the First provides scholarships to girls in low-income countries, fostering first-generation graduates and cultivating the next generation of global leaders. The organization’s leaders have been recognized by Jenna Bush Hager on the If you would like to cover the Summit and She’s the First Campus program, you must RSVP to Tammy Tibbetts, Featuring Allison Hauser of Girls on the Run NYC, Polly Lagana of The Young Women’s Leadership School, and Gretel Truong of The Malala Fund. Explore the meaning of quality education and why support programs are so critical to a girl’s success — both in and out of the classroom.Observe students in workshops and/or conduct interviews with staff, speakers, or students.She’s the First staff members Tammy Tibbetts, Christen Brandt, and Katie Riley will present the 2015 State of the Union: Acknowledging the organization’s achievements in the last year, announcing upcoming milestones, and answering students’ questions about the programs.STF Scholar Ana Teresa joins Andrea Barahona, President of STF*{University of Florida} and Jessica Brown, founder of 1vyG, for a panel about being a first, moderated by Join us as we honor outstanding students and alumni leaders from the 2014–2015 school year.She’s the First international partner program representatives Maggie Doyne, John Wanda, and Maria Rose Galter will discuss how to be an effective advocate for girls’ education and girls themselves. Our moderator is She’s the First Advisory Board member Tara Abrahams.We will premiere two new She’s the First short documentaries: Tammy Tibbetts, Founder  President, She’s the First sponsors girls’ education, with the goal of creating more first-generation graduates and our next generation of global leaders.

The question is really whether education gives people both the heuristics and tools necessary to succeed in accomplishing their goals. In terms of published research, there’s also a hard distinction between STEM and humanities. I think that distinction breaks down once people enter the applied world of the workforce, though.PhD student in Computational Social Science. Fellow at New America Foundation (all content my own). Strategy, simulation, agents. Aspiring cyborg scientist.

The most important thing I do as a creative director is hire designers. Much like the best thing a movie director can do is focus on casting, hiring great designers makes everything else so much more enjoyable: “Management” time is reduced and the work quality is much, much higher.A major source of designers is, naturally, design schools. I, and my counterparts at other design studios, agencies, corporations, and startups, rely on design schools to help shape, guide, and train the next generation of designers. So I — and the hundreds like me — have a vested interest in the state of design education.And we’re concerned.The crux of the matter is the feeling that many design schools are doing a disservice to their students by preparing them for careers they’re unlikely to have, at least right out of school. “No one wants to hire a 22-year-old strategist,” was how a colleague (perhaps indelicately) phrased it. Graduate schools focus on more and more specialized, baroque areas of design. Meanwhile, undergraduates are pointed towards areas like service and systems design, and social innovation, despite the fact that the job market for those is small. What most undergraduates in the design field will work on when they graduate are I have a lot of sympathy for design schools. Design is not easy to teach. It’s a pastiche of methods, tools, theory, and principles, some of which take years to master. The field is evolving, with new tools and new areas to supply our skills towards. Professors have to prepare students for a future that’s uncertain, and I can see how having them study complexity and complex systems seems like a reasonable response. The unintended consequence is that the things in those systems that are begging for design are neglected or somehow seen as beneath doing.Here’s the thing: professors pass along their values to students. What they care about, what they’re passionate about, is often what students get passionate about. Professors who look down on “pixel pushing” (as though that was easy — it’s not and if you don’t believe me, try it sometime) and the day-to-day, tactical work of product design will pass that attitude along to their students, who’ll see the most strategic/thinking aspects of design as somehow more valuable than the doing/making aspects of design. Untethered as schools are to the marketplace, it’s not difficult to teach what Now, I certainly agree that our world needs big, system-wide changes and that young designers can help bring those about. But my experience with those kinds of designers leads me to believe that if you’ve got that kind of fire in your belly, you’re going to pursue it no matter if you’ve taken a class in social innovation or not. And more power to them.The “design thinking” wind that blew through the design community over the last decade has made its way into university curricula, so that thinking about the problem creatively has become equated with solving the problem. Journey Maps and conceptual models are fine, valuable tools — but only as a means to an end. If the designers you’re training can only do — or only want to do — process documents, they’re not as valuable as they could be. I’ve seen their portfolios.There are those who say that education is not about making someone “industry-ready.” I agree that that is not the sole purpose of education, but I feel that one purpose of any education, whether it is through a school or self-taught, is to prepare one to meaningfully participate: in society, in personal relationships, in a career. You cannot meaningfully participate in your field if most of the work — arguably the most important work — you are unequipped to address and may even feel is beneath you to address.It may be that I’m wrong. That in 10 years, all the design work will center around services and systems. That we’ll all be strategists and the detailed product design work will be done by algorithms and robots. But until then, there’s a great need and a great desire for designers who can craft the products we use every day, digital and physical. Keep making those.Designer. Author. VP of Product at Mayfield Robotics.

I started learning JavaScript a few years ago. I heard jQuery was a good entry point, so I went to the site and tried to figure out how to use this “easy-to-use” library. It was, to say the least, everything but “easy” for me to get started. I remember being completely lost, not only because of the foreign syntax, but also—and especially—because I had no idea how to conceptually approach things.I created While this extreme simplification of JavaScript is good to remove the barrier to entry to programming, designers will presumably feel the need to do more than the possibilities uilang provides them with. That’s good. If using uilang for just a few days gets designers excited about code and helps them switch to JavaScript, I’ll be very happy. Mission accomplished. I don’t need people to use uilang forever. It’s a starting point, an appetizer that addresses your first needs and get you excited about the rest.Now, the transition from the plain English, 1-line syntax of uilang to actual JavaScript isn’t straightforward, to say the least. In order to mitigate that issue, I built a It is, of course, also completely fine to stick with uilang. It’s fast, future-proof, and the possibilities are endless. It even makes sense to use it when you Happy coding!User Interface Designer at 

In late 2006, I was an unassuming young sixth grader. At the time, everyone on the news was stressing over Al Gore’s documentary “An Inconvenient Truth.” You might know a little bit about it.We did not often talk about this climate crisis in school. In fact, I do not believe that the climate crisis came up in any conversations. I had History, Math, English, Science, and Religion classes. In none of them did we talk about renewable energy or the climate crisis.I said to myself, “What is this climate stuff everyone is talking about? Why would a guy make a documentary about it? If this is a problem, why is no one trying to solve it?”Because none of my teachers engaged us in climate change discussion and it was not taught in schools, In all my years of teenagerdom, this was the only thing that made sense. Without the world changing course to renewables, we would drive ourself into a dystopian hell.To understand this “climate crisis,” I perused articles that talked about the impending shortage of fossil fuels and non-renewables. I became fascinated with solar energy and photovoltaics.Before this, I did not have any noticeable interests. I had a very Traditional education goes like this: if you want to succeed then However, and organic model of education is very different. Since life itself is organic, organic education works much better. The climate crisis and the education crisis are very much the same thing. The climate crisis is a shortage of natural resources. Moreover, the education crisis is a shortage of human resources and potential. They are very similar. In both situations, you have to dig deep to find what you are looking for. You also have to create an environment that promotes flourishing.I echo Too many people go through their lives not finding pleasure in what they do. They wait for the weekend to arrive. On the other hand, there are people that love what they do. If you told these people to stop their work, they would not because We need more people in the world who find what they are passionate about early in life. If you do not find what your passionate about until age 40, you are severely limiting your potential. Likewise, our education model promotes this behavior. People who lack motivation, direction and passion because they never found what set their heart on fire.To really transform things, we need to develop an education system that promotes curiosity, exploration and non-conformity. If we are to meet or exceed the needs of the 22nd century, then we cannot continue to rely on a factory model of education. In order to change it, we need an organic education system. A system that is not based on sequential events. A system where every path is personalized to allow the student to explore and develop his or her interests. The only way to diversify education’s output is to throw out the “one size fits all” model. To really fix the world, we need people who love what they’re doing. We need people who don’t drift through life wondering who they really are and what they should do. Exploration and curiosity aided and promoted by schools is the only alternative.Because my school never promoted exploration and curiosity early on, I was left to explore the world on my own time. Most kids do not have this realization or do not have the environment that will foster this kind of realization.Since I had the opportunity to be curious, I found out my true self and passions very early on. More people need to experience this, or we are headed towards a very dim future.Education’s greatest pitfall is that it does not promote individualized study and curiosity into subjects that schools do not teach. A factory education model does not provide the diversity of talents and passions that we need for the 22nd century. Likewise, the climate crisis is very similar. If we do not change things, we are headed towards a very dim future. If you found this article enjoyable, I would love if you hit the recommend button below and followed me on Twitter deskofkyle.com

I think, perhaps, I’d like to start a school. An alternative high school where students are engineers of their own education. Where students learn like I did.Until high school, I was homeschooled. I spent my days at home, diving into the subjects I found interesting, letting my schoolwork be guided by what I was excited about. I read and wrote constantly. I made art of every subject. I skipped from one field of study to another. I was learning for the sake of learning, not for anything else. At eight I became an expert on the pioneers with Laura Ingalls Wilder as my guide. At thirteen I learned about the Holocaust without opening a single textbook: I read fiction and memoirs about children who lived through it, I watched movies, I visited the Holocaust Museum in Washington DC and Dachau in Germany. While science never seemed particularly fascinating, I found ways to become engaged in it. I wrote poetry about the structure of a calcium molecule, made a Mythbusters-style video with my brother based on experiments we’d conducted. There were never curricula, never clear starts and ends to my learning about a particular subject, never grades to motivate my academics. With homeschooling learning was like breathing: it happened naturally.I decided to go to high school because I wanted to expand my world. I thought I wanted to learn in a more structured way. When I got to high school I decided to let success become important to me. Honestly, I stopped learning and started getting As. I learned to mindlessly memorize, follow formulas, bubble in, match, and restate. In high school, thinking became answering questions to prove that I read something. I don’t see much thought in that. There were places in high school where I did get to think: in particular, art classes and debate team. There, I was handed building blocks but no floor plan. I was given paints or facts, but it was up to me to draft and build. Ironically, both activities are considered “extracurricular” and “non-academic.”There’s a part of me that wonders what I would be like if I had never gone to traditional high school, if I had spent four more years finding myself and my interests in the pages of dystopian fiction or modern art museums or travel abroad. Maybe I would have spent four more years understanding learning as something to love and explore rather than something that was defined by a report card and a pile of tests whose answers I had already forgotten by the time they were handed back to me with a tidy percentage written on them. But maybe I’d never have realized how unique and valuable my homeschooling learning experiences were. Maybe I never would have found a fascination in the very subject of learning itself.I get so worked up about education and all its possibilities. I look around me and see a generation of kids being told that we need to solve the problems previous generations created. But how can we be innovative if our education is not? As teenagers, we are full of excitement and questioning and desire to So, perhaps I’d like to start a school. Perhaps I feel like I have to.

I wouldn’t write about the homeless, the politics, or the judgements, I would write about the power of one. I would write about the gift of education, and most importantly I would be hopeful.Yesterday the internet exploded around a blog post I made about my plan to offer to help a man with a simple question,Within an hour, TechCrunch, Washington Post, Huffington Post had weighed in on the conversation. People emailed, commented, blogged both positive and negative ideas or criticism around the idea, me, the views etc. Outside of all of this, people have a big heart for this. That is a great thing.It turns out Leo is a genius particularly concerned with environment issues. As I sat there becoming increasing stunned, he rattled off import/export prices on food, the importance of solar and green energy, and his approval for “efficient public transportation initiatives [referring to NY’s new Citibike]”. He is smart, logical, and articulate. Most importantly, he is serious. It’s up to him if dedication is also his gift.First, per our agreement, for the next two months I will come to work and hour earlier and meet with him for a coding session.I am overnighting this gear:Second, we are going to hold a public “One of the ideas several people have suggested and we will discuss is to run a Kickstarter campaign to raise money for office space and a temporary home.Third, regardless of where people stand, issues aside, Leo has accepted the challenge. The story will continue here on Medium, or on his new Best,Patrick McConlogue““““Patrick McConlogue’s random notes, posts, and ideas.

There are a few industries that are primed for disruption: e-commerce, education, and health are some examples.A few weeks ago, I spoke with a Silicon Valley tech pioneer and he mentioned that the AI department at Stanford university is in shambles because its most promising faculty are competing in EdTech startups. I personally think EdTech startups like, Khan Academy, are overstating their impact, but I certainly think that these startups, and new ones, will slowly “digitize” higher education one experience at a time. The problem at the moment is that most EdTech startups aren’t transforming how people learn, but rather how knowledge is distributed. Essentially most of these startups said: instead of having a lecturer give lectures sequentially to 100 students, provide all lectures in a course to anyone with Internet access.This is great. Especially if you are smart, well-educated, and wealthy because now you can have fun on Sunday mornings learning about BitCoin, String Theory, and Napoleon. However, a lot of work remains to be done for EdTech startups, mainly because the traditional educational system hasn’t figured out how to deliver a high quality educational experience: Poorer students are still at a disadvantage than richer ones, most universities have a 6-year graduation rate yet their students lack the basic skills to be competitive in the marketplace, and a university’s highest paid employees (president, faculty, Now “education” is a big and complex package that includes: learning, socializing, prestige, certification, dating, When the notion of digital music started gaining traction in the mid 1990s, the music industry just ignored it as a “fluke” or a “geek hobby”. They were certain that people will continue to buy music the old fashioned way. Professor Michio Kaku, of my alma mater The City College of NY, phrased it beautifully: This is how the Internet has made various “technologies” irrelevant: by taking them apart piece by piece — not in a single big shot. No technology could replace the printed news, but over a 10-year period several Internet startups have striped print media from its value proposition: Craigslist took away classifieds, Medium gives a better platform for writers, and Reddit collectively curates the most newsworthy stories on the Internet. What’s also interesting about these startups is that they also tend to augment an old technology’s value proposition. For example, not only did the telephone make telegraphs obsolete, it also transformed how we communicated long-distance.The one advantage that a brick-and-mortar university allegedly has over eUniversities is dedication: If I know you personally I’m more committed to your success. When Sebastian Thurn teaches 100,000+ students over the Internet, you’re just a username in the crowd. However, we all know that students fall through the cracks in “real” universities all the time, so if an EdTech startup can solve the “commitment” problem where every single student who registered is guaranteed attention and support to finish his/her degree that would be a very compelling value proposition.The main problem with EdTech startups is that they are funded by VCs that don’t know much about education. EdTech isn’t about scale, it’s about personalization and to do that you must start small. If you are lecturing 100,000 people you have already gone down the wrong path. Scale-based EdTech startups can’t deliver their promise because they confuse lecturing with teaching. Yes, you are lecturing 100,000s of students but how many are actually learning? VCs get giddy when you say I have 100,000+ active students because more eye balls correlates with potentially more revenue. This is a fundamental incentives mismatch: one party wants scale to “change the world”, the other to make a potential profit. And so far neither party is attaining their objective.So what should a EdTech startup focus on. I think lecture delivery is very crowded at the moment if you are following the same video distribution model as One cautionary tale is that you will have to move quickly and systemically to create partnerships that will solidify your position in the market. When the music industry was resisting change, Steve Jobs did an amazing job of imposing his company in the heart of the digital music revolution, mainly through partnerships with the music labels. As a result, iTunes has become the biggest player in the digital music space. Of course, as an EdTech entrepreneur you’re out to leave a positive imprint on the world, but it doesn’t hurt if you can build a successful business along the way — just start by taking a small bite out of the big apple.Thank you to: At the intersection of education and technology

The curriculum in English class had us decode the methods of developing a character or a paragraph so that I could come to appreciate written English. Not once did it have us practice them.Our math class last year gave me the opportunity to deposit mathematics in my brain like money in a bank. So that one day when I grow up, I don’t have to Google a point of intersection calculator or look up the formula for the volume of a sphere.In geography, we would be taught a curriculum littered with buzzwords like “walkability”, “smart growth”, and “new urbanism”. A course that enlightened us towards the geographical problems facing mankind, but I say that at most it was 2 months of instruction spread thin over 4.Science class was spent memorizing or understanding, depending on which we preferred, explanations as to why things are the way they are. However, I can’t help but entertain the idea that there were more practical uses of time.Steve Jobs once said,And that happened to me. I said “no” too many days in a row. And I began to wonder, why “no”? What is it that makes me say “time today isn’t going to be time well spent”? And so I thought about it, and I defined the ideal. The perfect form.My ideals are simple, but as simple as they may be, they are powerful. Because ideals can only get better. Ideals are bulletproof. They don’t account for economics, they don’t care about politics. They’re not concerned with practicality. Which is why they are inherently perfect.I’m in high school. I deal with the current situation on a daily basis outside of summer. I see its shortcomings and I dream of what it can be. And so here are myIn 1974 at a company called 3M, a scientist by the name of Art Fry invented the post-it note. He made it during his 15% time. Likewise, Gmail and Google Earth were born during Google employees’s 20% time. What Percent time at school would be a game-changer. It would be spent on some type of documented learning. Accounts of what is done should be kept by the students themselves, in the form of a journal, video blogs, podcasts, etc. And at the end of the year, all the students present what they’ve accomplished. With today’s always-connected world, today’s noisy world, we are left with little room for reflection. We have so many ways to get distracted. You’ll find us teenagers pulling out our phones and texting or tweeting or updating or messaging or listening to music when we sense we have nothing to do. All of this prevents us from thinking. So what better way to empower the youth of tomorrow than by ingraining in them life-changing habits?And so school should get us into the habit of thinking. Of reflecting. Of standing up for ourselves. Take a page from Japan’s book and have hourly 5-minute stretching breaks. But most of all, get us to love learning.Because it is the job of every teacher first and foremost to incite the love of learning, not to relay information from a textbook. Once you’ve gotten that interest or passion in your students, you no longer have kids hoping that time would pass faster or longing to be anywhere but the classroom they’re in. No, you have motivated disciples.Most tests should present a hard question that requires us to build upon the knowledge that we learn in class. Because the notion that tests, in their current form, are an accurate indicator of a student’s understanding is absolutely preposterous. I say that because for the courses I personally find irrelevant, I put everything to short-term memory and call it a day. 6 months later, good luck trying to get me to remember the contents of the course.So have us be humans. Let us collaborate. You cannot logically argue that we won’t have access to Google in the future. To our friend who might have taken the course already. If Stephen Hawking is in town, and a student can get him to help on a test on theoretical physics, then the student deserves to consult Stephen Hawking about his test. Have a single question to truly differentiate between those who understand and those who merely memorize. A single question that requires students to build upon the foundation of knowledge taught in class, not just remember it.I call for a shorter “school time”. The 27-hour schoolweek can be cut down to 15. The time spent at school should be dedicated to teachers answering questions, discussing about the prior night’s homework. This is the time when students have the chance to intelligently converse with their teachers instead of desperately trying to understand the lesson. How? Because the lesson would have been taught the night before.One way to do this is through the use of instructional videos, like Khan Academy. When it’s a video teaching you the concepts, you’re not limited by social confines. You’re not afraid about others thinking you’re stupid if you don’t get it. If you’re unsure about something, you just rewind and watch it again. If you already know the concept skip ahead and you’ve got more free time. And so the teacher assigns videos to be watched and homework, should there be any, to be done and ideas to be entertained. The next day concepts can be clarified. Questions can be asked. Unexplored tangents can be explored.The ideals that are laid by the institutions that make up the education system today turn those who intend to succeed into laborious workhorses. Workhorses stuck in the monotonous, perpetual cycle of homework, extracurriculars, and the race to a job. Because it was promised to them that a job would give them a “life”. But what are they doing now? They’re competing in the race for the most checkmarks and the highest numbers beside their names. In that time, they’re not living. They brag about who slept the least before a test or project was due. In their recess, their recreation time, they’re sitting down doing homework. And once all the boxes have been checked, what they have won’t be a life. Because a life means that you get to live, not survive from 9 to 5.Checkmarks and numbers don’t reflect you as a person. If that were the case, interviews wouldn’t exist, and the highest academic achievers would always get the position. But interviews do exist, so my message to my peers is to start living. Grades are merely the means to an end. They show that you have absorbed what has been given to you, but not that you’ve done anything with it. If you play the piano, and you learn music theory, then why do anything else but start composing? If you’ve gone to a business class, then start a business. School should make time for this. Promote this. Reward this. And so my message to those writing the curriculum and managing the whole system is:Kaizen + Clever + Laziness + Eccentric = ?

This story ends with an online Reading classics like Anne Lamott’s Bird by Bird and William Zinsser’s On Writing Well, I was surprised to learn that writing, real writing, is not about a flash of divine inspiration. It turns out the muse is a serial procrastinator. A serious writer sees their work instead as a daily discipline, whether or not they feel like it.Or as Stephen King puts it, “Amateurs sit and wait for inspiration, the rest of us just get up and go to work.”I had to learn a whole new set of writing habits to get that book out the door. I needed a tool for overcoming what Steven Pressfield calls the “resistance” encountered by every creative person when they sit down to work.Until you develop these habits, writing a book seems, and is, impossible. Once you have them, it is inevitable. And it’s the same for every big goal you have.Soon afterward, serving as a Peace Corps volunteer in Eastern Ukraine, I used habits in my study of the Russian language: 5 new flashcards every day, studied and sorted by recall speed for later review.By the time I left 2 years later, I had memorized 3,000 Russian words, tested out at an Intermediate Advanced fluency level, and been interviewed in Russian on national My education in habit formation continued when I returned to the U.S. I started work at a design consultancy in San Francisco, where we helped create products and services explicitly designed to influence people’s behavior. I read everything I could find on persuasive technology, decision theory, UX design, participatory action research, and applied behavioral science — all building blocks of what has now emerged as the field of behavior design.I continued trying what I was learning in my own life, finding the power of habits everywhere I looked: in productivity, creativity, company culture, friendships, hobbies, conversations, chores. I felt like I had discovered a secret weapon, and people often remarked on my impressive dedication and self-discipline. But what looked like self-discipline on the outside was in reality just the mundane ability to keep chipping away at small habits over long periods of time.The real test came when I quit my consulting job and started Forte Labs. I had very little savings, a lot of student debt, and no clients or revenue to speak of. I was starting at a standstill on a short runway.I knew that I desperately needed to recreate the structure that a workplace had provided up to that point. I needed to plan my routines to avoid what I knew was a great risk: that I would putter around for a few months chasing down fruitless leads and working on questionable projects, only to end up exhausted, broke, and with nothing to show for it but a gaping hole in my resume.I started with the basics. I would wake up, work, eat, exercise, and go to sleep at set times, even when no one was enforcing them. I didn’t always stick to it perfectly, but this schedule ensured that I would put in the hours day after day, week after week, even when I didn’t feel inspired. I decided that my work was a daily discipline, and I would treat it like one.The work itself also depended on habits. I “automated” the unpleasant administrative tasks I knew needed to be done, processing them in big batches to minimize the time it took. I created routines to make sure I was keeping up on new developments in my field, to spend time on both “important” and “urgent” tasks, and to create a workflow that tracked the extremely diverse responsibilities I took on as a sole founder.It turned out that my problem was the opposite than the one I expected: it was difficult for me to pull myself away from work I cared about. But habits helped here as well. Establishing what Tony Schwartz calls “positive energy rituals” like meditation, home-cooked meals, and mandatory rest days helped me maintain balance when I was tempted to fire on all cylinders for too long.Slowly but surely, consistency turned into momentum, and that momentum has done things I never could have achieved through sheer force of will. It helped me build a business that has served over 10,000 people, online and in person, as well as multinational companies, government agencies, and startup incubators. I still have a long way to go, but I’ve taken the first steps toward building a sustainable business and, more importantly, a sustainable life.Have I achieved complete mastery over my behavior? Absolutely not. In fact, this type of rigid control is exactly the opposite of what we’re looking for when we create habits. I mess up constantly, but I have learned that there is a different story I can tell myself about these failures. I can choose to interpret them as data points in my experiments, not evidence of fatal character flaws.In talking to many people about productivity, entrepreneurship, and learning, it’s become increasingly clear that habit formation is the best-kept-secret key to success. When we hear the stories of successful people we look up to, we only hear about the flash of insight, the stroke of luck, or the moment of genius; almost never about the daily rituals that made those moments possible, or inevitable.Habits are not as sexy as the most recent productivity trend, but they are other things: solid, powerful, compounding. Like a deep ocean tide, they operate in secret but can reach immense scale, moving mountains of water across the oceans while we play with our toys on the surface.Working with my clients to improve their productivity, I’ve noticed again and again that what most people (even very successful people) lack is not the Why — they believe deeply in what they’re trying to achieve. And it isn’t the What — they know what goals and milestones they need to reach.What they lack is the How. They lack a system for translating their goals into concrete daily actions. They lack the ability to design their own habits.Because the truth is that even when you know exactly what you need to do, you simply do not have enough willpower to go around. You can never summon enough self-control to maintain and expand your progress in every area of your life, simultaneously, incessantly, forever. Your brain comes with a built-in autopilot — doesn’t it seem smart to learn how to program this autopilot to go where you want?I created Design Your Habits because I want people to succeed. I want them to finish what they start, to make things, to do work they give a shit about. We don’t need more motivational slogans or good advice; we need practical, effective systems for changing our behavior and reaching our goals. And these systems need to also keep us balanced, healthy, and mindful enough to enjoy those achievements, otherwise we are just on a new and faster hamster wheel.I sincerely hope it gives you a new perspective on success, one that is more humane and realistic. Much more importantly, I hope it gives you a set of practical tools that you can put to use today.Thanks for hearing me,TiagoI run productivity consultancy Forte Labs at fortelabs.cofortelabs.co

The Storefront for Art and Architecture in Manhattan recently opened an exhibition called All of the 50 artworks from the creators’ earliest days were printed in the traditional format of a blueprint, otherwise known as a diazotype. The process, once widely used in architecture to reproduce drawings cheaply and easily, has been banned in many locations because of its toxic ammonia release. So it is now effectively obsolete, and difficult to obtain. But as this exhibition demonstrates, outdated media can acquire a newfound charm, and not just for the one-off art show. In an era in which digital design dominates every creative field, many artists are returning to (or in some cases, never abandoned) analog processes to rediscover a specificity that’s lost in digital translation.Graphic designer Fox, who is one half of the 2-person San Francisco firm His view, shared with many others, is that an exclusively digital artist might never know how to manipulate physical media, and can only experiment with a program with pre-existing limitations. For instance, a line drawn with Illustrator has a default setting: it is one point thick, black, and perfectly straight. But a line drawn with a pencil, pen, oil crayon or sponge brush can be any weight, color or texture, and the evidence of a human hand adds character. “The program is actually tricking the designer into thinking that their work is ‘finished’ when it is just ‘polished,’” says Fox.“Designers will think these are just the tools you use, and that is that. Their work becomes cliché and boring and repetitive,” he says. “You can look at digital graphics and know what tool or filter was used. It’s not just for Photoshop, but throughout contemporary history, filters and effects become in vogue, and then they become kind of a joke, and people move on.” Drew cites Instagram as the prime example of a gallery of prefab filters that millions of users employ. “Rarely do people figure out how they are going to create their own unique filter.”So does it help to master the original version of cropping and cloning and filtering in a darkroom before using the simulated tools in Photoshop? Does every architecture student need to know how to use a T-square and drawing table before they take up mouse-click vectors? These methods are more time-consuming, and often more toxic (which led to their obsolescence in the first place), but do they create better work?Nataly Gattegno, whose architecture firm, “I will sit and sketch and then will quickly try to make a digital draft, print something out, make another model, redline it, and then go back into the computer. It’s a feedback loop between analog and digital,” she said. Gattegno believes it is this fluidity between the two methods that promotes authenticity and originality. At the California College of the Arts, where Gattegno chairs the Architecture department, students receive instruction at the Last year, an assignment challenged students to design drawing machines, reversing the usual method of translating an analog drawing into a digital one. Gattegno explains: “We asked students if they could make a machine to hold a pen to draw. Can they feed in digital information and get an analog result?”The aim here is to foster critical thinking about technology, so that it doesn’t predetermine the work. Gattegno doesn’t see the future of design education privileging the analog methods necessarily, but rather, that students should better understand how they can manipulate the new methods. “You can use design programs in a standard way or you can hack them,” says Gattegno. “It’s important to leverage the tools for what you want to do.”Dr. Jesse Drew takes this idea even further in his course called “Electronics for Artists.” He has students go dumpster diving for old hardware like VCRs, cathode ray TVs or old computers. The students dismantle the machines to identify the components. They are then instructed in how to read schematics, how to build circuits and how to work with the circuit that already exists.“Rarely do people have any clue what is going on inside the box,” Drew says. “Everyone has devices, but they don’t understand what is going on in there at all. Twenty years ago, people used to know how to add RAM and switch a hard drive in their computers. When HTML started, everyone was experimenting with it to code their own web pages, but now we use WordPress,” he laments.Watching media flourish and die out over decades, Drew has hit upon an essential truth of the modern artist: She must not only develop her creative vision, she also must be a master of all of the tools she is using and an archivist of her work. “That becomes your second occupation,” he explains. “You used to make a painting, a sculpture, or even a photo and it would be around and accessible for the rest of your life. But now you make things and you store them in a computer file, and in five years you can’t access them because the technology is outdated and you don’t know how to convert it.”A recent We’ll all have the ability to hack our programs, bringing more analog sensibility into the digital domain. But this doesn’t solve the problem of obsolescence of art media. Only a few methods will have their revival moment like the blueprint, or the Polaroid.In “Some media do, in fact, perish,” he wrote. “Such as: the phenakistoscope. The teleharmonium. The Edison wax cylinder. The stereopticon . . . How long will it be before the much-touted World Wide Web interface is itself a dead medium? And what will become of all those billions of thoughts, words, images and expressions poured onto the Internet? Won’t they vanish just like the vile lacquered smoke from a burning pile of junked Victrolas? As a net.person, doesn’t this stark realization fill you with a certain deep misgiving, a peculiarly postmodern remorse, an almost Heian Japanese sense of the pathos of lost things? If it doesn’t, why doesn’t it? It ought to.”Previously an anthropologist, now an independent journalist covering education, sustainability, health, and tech in San Francisco.A field guide to the designed world

Daniel Goldman talks about the five aspects of emotional intelligence. The main aspects of emotional intelligence are the following: self-regulation, self-awareness motivation, empathy and social skill. Goldman talk about how emotional intelligence or success is the same thing as leadership success. He says it is important that we know ourselves which is defined as knowing our values, strengths, weaknesses and more. Self-awareness is the opposite of grandiosity. It is impossible for a person to be self-absorbed all the while being self-aware. A key characteristic of a self-aware person is a thirst for well put constructive criticism. These type of people are always looking for ways to be better. They are always looking to grow. These type of people are also able to admit when they are wrong and they have ability to laugh at themselves. Self-regulation is the ability to control and redirect disruptive moods, decisions or emotions. Self- regulation is synonymous with self-control. This type of person is open to change their ways and experience new things. This is the type of person worthy to be trusted. this type of person also thinks about their actions often; they are characterized by self-reflection and thoughfulness. Motivation is all about achievement for achievements sake. They are not conerned with any awards, prizes or special accolades given in return for their success. A persons motivation can be manifested in what they are committed to. Empathy is about being able to read others. Empathy can be looked at from hot and cold perspectives. Hot empathy is when someone feels another persons pain and completely understands what they are going through. Cold empathy is when someone has the basic understanding of another’s feelings but they lack the ability to feel the same feeling themselves. Empathic people have a skill for listening to others. However, cultural differences must be acknowledged to begin to understand a persons emotional background. Goldman says empathy is important for the following: globalization, need to retain talent and the increasing role of the use of teams in problem solving. Social skill is building the type fo relationships that have understanding, trust and reliability. This type of person has a talent for networking and persuasion. Social skills are necessary to build, lead and sustain teams. Goldman says these aspects are necessary for good and proper leadership. Poetry and literature is the great helper to make one increasingly self-aware. Reading literature can also expose ones true desire to be self-aware. Poetry and literature of virtually all forms teach how leadership relates and enhances emotional intelligence.Thursday in class, we talked about Xenophon and Cyrus’s education. He discusses the problem in governments and governance. There has never been a stable government. He witnessed every one of the following forms of governance fail: democracy, monarchy, oligarchy, tyranny and private homes. This is used to support the fact that governments always fail. Xenophon says the no man or people are fit to govern others. Humans are able to be rulers of animals successfully, but not other humans. Xenophon then says the only exception to this that he has seen is Cyrus. He is the only exceptation to sustained permant governace. Cyrus is the liberating figure that we can find in scripture.

I t’s not uncommon for advocates seeking change to our nation’s educational system to argue that it is time to “break the monopoly.”It’s a phrase with some appeal. Monopolies are generally associated with big corporations — think Standard Oil — that used their large size to squash the competition and fleece the consumer. Even today, it’s not hard to worry that some of the companies that produce products we use every day — perhaps Google or Facebook — dominate the market so much that is difficult for viable alternatives to compete. Economic theory shows why monopolies are not efficient. Beyond that, they seem against the ideal that there should a fair playing field for competition and that Americans deserve choices.Still, monopolies are not always seen as bad — economists have long recognized that there may be “Where I live in Seattle, electricity is provided by a city-owned utility, Seattle City Light. Residents and businesses don’t have a choice. But since moving here a year ago, I’ve been pleased with the service. I’ve barely seen a light flicker. (It also helps that Seattle has some of the lowestSo are schools technically “natural” monopolies? And if so, should we break the monopoly over public education?I personally can see the appeal in the ideal of the neighborhood school, a central gathering place in the community with open doors to all children (even if theThe question is worth asking, and I believe the answer is clearly yes. There are many reasons why education does not fit the definition of a natural monopoly. Schools are human-driven enterprises. They are hugely dependent on people — that is the teachers who are so important to education. Yes, schools have to have buildings and textbooks, but these capital costs don’t outweigh the cost of labor. Further, education is the provision of learning and knowledge — it is about as far away from the definition of commodity as possible. My neighbors and need exactly the same electrical service — an electron is an electron. But learning can take an infinite number of forms, based on children’s needs and interests.A top-down, centralized approach isn’t going to meet these needs and interests.The greater Seattle real estate market continues to be hot. When families are considering whether to purchase a home in a new neighborhood in a neighboring city, they don’t think about who would provide their electrical service. But as anyone who has watched any show on HGTV knows, at the top of their considerations is the quality of the school zoned to their home. If education was truly a commodity, meaning there was little variation in the quality provided, would we see the focus and attention on schools when parents are deciding where to live? If education was a natural monopoly, would we really see parents who are willing to pay more for homes in neighborhoods with better quality schools? If one provider met everyone’s needs fairly well, would parents pay to send their children to private school when they could go to an equal public school for free? When one in five Seattle kids goes to private school, I think the answer is obvious.Some will say education is a public good — not just something that benefits individual students or families — and I certainly agree. But just because the government pays for it does not mean government must be the sole provider. We subsidize health care but let families choose from a variety of doctors. We provide financial aid for students to attend college, but they can choose to go to universities that are public, private, or sectarian. Those calling for universal preschool recognize that we will need to utilize a variety of providers. In these realms, we’ve recognized that families deserve choices, and multiple providers can better serve diverse needs. Public K-12 education is the same.As my colleaguesFurther, “breaking the monopoly” doesn’t mean that traditional district-run schools must completely wither away. School districts could better serve students by moving decision making over funds and strategies down from the central office to school leaders, while creating new high quality schools where they are needed. If district-run schools were de-coupled from specific attendance zones, parents would have even more choices.Every child does not need to attend the same model of school, but every child deserves a quality education.The Seventy Four is a non-profit, non-partisan news site covering education in America.

