A group of friends checking their smartphones while hanging out. Almost everyone on the subway with their eyes fixed on their gadget’s screens. A couple laying together in bed with their iPhones in their hands. People with their devices up in the air taking pictures of a concert. And I could go on. Technology, and especially smartphones, is ruining society, making us disconnected from others, interacting with our devices instead of with each other.Except, fuck that.People like to criticize current society. Not necessarily the current society relative to us, but the contemporary society of the If you have used the internet in the last years (and I suspect you have), you have probably seen a picture on your Facebook feed or on your Tumblr dashboard or nearly everywhere pointing out, with a sense of superiority, how people are slaves of technology nowadays, always using their electronic devices in public. I’m talking about illustrations like Everytime I see content like that, I feel the need to express my profound disagreement, for which I usually resort to Twitter, always ending up wanting to say more than I could, so I decided to write this piece. Of course, this expresses my views (and, I hope, the views of many others) just like those authors whose works I’m commenting on, so you may disagree with me and find that they are right and I’m not.My main premise is that I don’t think smartphones are isolating us, destroying our social lives or ruining interactions. I see smartphones as Is it so bad to prefer talking with a long-distance partner using a smartphone than with someone who does not interest me but happens to be next to me? To prefer reading how the people you’ve followed by years on Twitter are doing instead of making smalltalk with that friend of a friend sitting across the subway car? Maybe you think that yes, it is bad, that people should always prioritize physical interaction to digital one. I disagree. Except for obvious occasions (a work meeting, an actual conversation that is taking place between you and someone, etc.), I think people should be able to interact with whomever they please without being judged by people for using a smartphone to do so.It all boils down to letting people connect freely using the medium they feel the most comfortable with at the moment. Maybe that acquaintance of yours hasn’t gone talk to you because she has had a bad day and just wants to relax checking her Instagram feed or listening to some music. Maybe your friend has taken his smartphone out of his pocket because he has gotten a message that he needs to reply now. Or maybe it’s just that he feels a bit uncomfortable and is using his phone to try and avoid the awkwardness of the moment because he has social anxiety and you should respect that. And yes, maybe, maybe some people are using their smartphones while they objectively shouldn’t without any possible excuses and they’re jerks (or they just made a mistake and didn’t realize taking their phone out would make someone upset), but I think it’s really unfair to assume everyone or nearly everyone who uses a smartphone in public does that.Part of the commentaries I’ve seen criticizing this whole issue also touch on social media, since it is so integrated with our usual smartphone usage. For example, I see lots of people complaining about people who take pictures of the food they order at restaurants for posting them on Instagram or wherever. I don’t get that. Is it wrong to create a permanent memento of an otherwise temporary experience, to capture in a photo the work of the people back in the kitchen who made an effort to make the food look attractive? To me, those complaints allude to a lack of understanding of how modern social media works.I think Tumblr user zmizet expresses this very accurately in their And I agree with that. zmizet concludes:Social media itself is also not bad. It doesn’t make us more socially isolated. Quite the contrary, it expands our social network, as shown in It dates back to 2009, when social media wasn’t as big as it is now, but I firmly believe it still stands correct today. I’d also like to point out this key paragraph:Social media, and smartphones for that matter, only contributes to make our social experiences richer by connecting us with people in new ways. I’m sure many of you have met lots of interesting people. I sure have. Thanks to social media, I’ve been able to meet people that are now close friends of mine. And when I’m out, I like to open Twitter and check how they are, what they are doing, if I have something to say that may interest them. Heck, I even met my girlfriend on Twitter years ago. And I’m absolutely certain that my experience is not an isolated one, as the research above shows.Other frequent topic appears to be one I’ve already mentioned. People using their smartphones on the subway, the bus or the train. This is shown in the illustration used at the beginning of this writing or in the comic I referenced above. This is probably the one I get the least. What else could people do? What would they do if smartphones didn’t exist? Talking to each other? Let’s not fool ourselves. People in general do not like to interact with strangers in these contexts. They didn’t when smartphones were far from existing; they just used another object instead, like a newspaper. In response to the vignette next to this paragraph, Tumblr user bogleech The person who wrote that was clearly really passionate about this topic. And well, I think that, although violently, they deliver the message I’m trying to convey here.They also went on to say:You don’t have to take their word for it. There are studies that back up all of that like I’m a Multimedia Engineer focused on human-computer interaction at the intersection of art, tech, science and culture.We publish analytical, informed stories, commentary, and opinions focused on technology and how it affects human behavior and social culture.

According to the I first learned to code at age 16, and am now in my 30s. I have a math PhD from Duke. I still remember my pride in a “knight’s tour” algorithm that I wrote in C++ in high school; the awesome mind warp of an interpreter that can interpret itself (a Scheme course my first semester of college); my fascination with numerous types of matrix factorizations in C in grad school; and my excitement about relational databases and web scrapers in my first real job.Over a decade after I first learned to program, I still loved algorithms, but felt alienated and depressed by tech culture. While at a company that was a particularly poor culture fit, I was so unhappy that I hired a career counselor to discuss alternative career paths. Leaving tech would have been devastating, but staying was tough.I’m not the stereotypical male programmer in his early 20s looking to “work hard, play hard”. I do work hard, but I’d rather wake up early than stay up late, and I was already thinking ahead to when my husband and I would need to coordinate our schedules with daycare drop-offs and pick-ups. When researcher This is a huge, unnecessary, and expensive loss of talent in a field facing a supposed talent shortage. Given that tech is currently one of the major drivers of the US economy, this impacts everyone. Any tech company struggling to hire and retain as many employees as they need should particularly care about addressing this problem.Nobody wants to think of themselves as being sexist. However, a number of studies have shown that identical job applications or resumes are evaluated differently based on whether they are labeled with a male or female name. When men and women read identical scripts containing entrepreneurial pitches or salary negotiations, they are evaluated differently. Both men and women have been shown to have these biases. Here is a sampling of just a few of the studies on unconscious gender bias:Most concerningly, a study from Yale researchers shows that Bias is typically justified post-hoc. Our initial subconscious impression of the female applicant is negative, and then we find logical reasons to justify it. For instance, in the above Because of the high attrition rate for women working in tech, teaching more girls and women to code is not enough to solve this problem. Because of the above well-documented differences in how men and women are perceived, training women to negotiate better and be more assertive is also not enough to solve this problem. Female voices are perceived as The professional and emotional costs to women for speaking out about discrimination can be large (in terms of retaliation, being perceived as less employable or difficult to work with, or companies then seeking to portray them as poor performers). I know a number of female software engineers who will privately share stories of sexism with trusted friends that we are not willing to share publicly because of the risk. This is why it is important to proactively address this issue. There is more than enough published research and Change is possible. Although these are schools and not tech companies, Harvey Mudd and Harvard Business School provide inspiring case studies. Strong leaders at both schools enacted sweeping changes to address previously male-centric cultures. These recommendations on what companies could do to improve their cultures are based on a mix of research and personal experience. My goal is to have a positive focus, and I would love it if you walked away with at least one concrete goal for making constructive change at your company.It is very common at tech start-ups to promote talented engineers to management without providing them with any management training or oversight, particularly at rapidly growing companies where existing leadership is stretched thin. These new managers are often not aware of any of the research on motivation, human psychology, or bias. In the Leadership sets the values and culture for a company, so the onus is on them to make it clear that they value diversity. Younger engineers and managers will follow their perceptions of what executives value. In the cases of positive change at There is a well-documented Confirm that men and women with the same qualifications are earning the same amount and that they are receiving promotions and raises at similar rates (and if not, explore why). Make sure that gendered criticism (A culture that rewards facetime and encourages people to regularly stay late or eat dinner at the office puts employees with families at a disadvantage (particularly mothers), and research shows that Stanford research studies document that Over 10% of the There is a huge amount of I’m currently teaching software development at Thanks for review, edits, and discussion to: Jeremy Howard and Angie Chang.hackbright instructor, math phd, software developer, 

It’s San Francisco or wherever. Is Silicon Valley in San Francisco? Either way, you probably live there. With the other tech people.And, having rolled out of your single bed, you’re probably on a bus. A corporate bus. And you register your place on the bus using your phone. And you sit next to a colleague and communicate to him/her through your phone. It’s a phone not yet available to the public because it’s a version that’s a bit thinner than the phones available to the public. It can also recognise your iris.The journey to the office takes less time than you want it to take. The office building, designed to resemble a 1970s leisure centre, sits in a puddle of grass and the Californian (or wherever) sun winks from its glass. Although there appears loads of glass to the exterior, there are very few windows inside.You are obliged to have a coffee because your line manager spent $10,000 on a coffee machine that can be controlled by an app on your phone. The coffee machine is also one of the company’s designated ‘social zones’ where you’re obliged to talk to anyone who’s also at the coffee machine. You moan to a woman you’ve never seen before about this rule. She smiles but looks over your shoulder as you speak.You take your coffee to your desk. But it’s not your desk. It’s a hot-desk. And, as you’d spent time talking to the woman at the coffee machine, you’re now left with the hot-desk in the corner. The one that smells of tuna. And continues to smell of tuna, regardless of the many emails you’ve sent complaining about the smell of tuna.You pull your laptop from your rucksack as if it were a skateboard. Despite being severely unathletic, you have a vague wish that it ‘The daily grind would make a good name for a coffee shop,’ you say but your line manager doesn’t hear.She asks if you’ll be making an appearance for the department’s softball team. You tell her that your wrists ache.Although all members of the company eat in the canteen, the important people always seem to be at the head of the queue or sitting at the nicest table, the one with the view of the parking lot.You wait at the hot-food counter for fifteen minutes, scrolling through Tinder, hoping that people see what you’re doing and are therefore put off from talking to you. The woman from the coffee machine is standing at the salad bar. She smiles deeply into the eyes of a tanned man who works in sales. He has stubble and a rocket salad. You stroke your chin. You’d love to be able to grow a beard.All that’s left at hot-food is mushroom risotto. You hate mushroom risotto, but eating provides an excuse to be away from your laptop. You take a seat next to a group of four people you don’t recognise. They don’t acknowledge you. They continue to discuss this app that one of them has recently downloaded. The user inputs how often they piss, for how long, and the colour of the urine and, at the end of every week, it states what medical conditions the user is likely suffering and predicts their death date. You notice a mouth ulcer as you spoon up the microwave-hot risotto. The ulcer is at the very tip of your tongue.You return to your hot-desk. You take the stairs because it counts as exercise. The rest of the office has returned already and you worry that you’re late. Your line manager isn’t around, however, and you open whichever application it is you use to ‘programme’. You push the cursor key to scroll down through the lines of numbers. You scratch your balls.An email arrives. It’s from HR and reminds you that there’s an optional training session after work tomorrow from which absence would look strange. It’s about mental health in the tech industry. Your email application, whatever it is, automatically adds a reminder to your calendar. Your phone vibrates to confirm that it has received this reminder.You scroll through the numbers. The air conditioning murmurs. Someone’s phone goes off and they shout an apology through the still space. At some point you consider going for a piss but you worry that it’d mean having to talk to somebody. Also — the gang with the piss app might be in the toilets. They might note down the colour of your piss.A video call — your line manager. She’s smiling. She appears to be in a room in a part of the world much sunnier than San Francisco, Silicon Valley, or wherever it is you may be. But her office is a little down the corridor. She only wants to check in to see if you’ve had a coffee this afternoon. You lie and say that you have. Her head ducks out of the frame as she consults an unseen electronic device. She says that the coffee machine’s wi-fi must have dropped out as it says you’ve only had one coffee today and that was this morning. You agree to get another coffee. Your line manager asks whether you’ve made a decision about the softball team. You murmur something about your wrists.The bus waits in the parking lot. Inside, earphones bleed tinny sound. As you sit down, your seat squeaks. It sounds like a fart. You look around to see if anyone had heard. All heads are bowed as if in prayer.You open Twitter. Your fingers hesitate. You close Twitter. The sun has begun to set. The bus makes its way from the parking lot. You catch the driver’s eye in the rear-view mirror. He looks away.-Buoyed up by knowledge of my greatness, indulged by waiters, favoured by the women in the market and adored by passers-by.

Kennedy Cooke-Garza“So…I have a question for you.”My new art director, Nick, sat across from me, wiping a bit of pizza sauce from the sides of his mouth. The animator, Robert, sat to the right of him, and seemed to tense up anticipating the question. It was the first week of my first job out of college, a small games studio in Florida that I’d been initially proud and excited to have landed. The three of us had gone out for lunch that day and were getting to know each other a bit more.“What?” I asked.“What exactly is your…genetic…makeup?” He asked.I paused, chewing for a second before answering, “that’s a really bizarre way to phrase that question. Do you mean like what’s my…ethnicity? Or racial background?”“Yeah.”“Well my mom’s white and my dad’s Mexican. But I mean, they both were born here. I was born here.”“Yeah, I was just curious, ‘cause like…your last name is totally Hispanic, but I was like…she definitely does “Ehh, yeah. I get that a lot.” I dabbed awkwardly at my pizza with a napkin. The subject was quickly changed, and I wrote it off as just a one-time snafu. I almost forgot about it, until, as we were leaving, he asked me a bit more about my family.“So do you have any brothers and sisters? I know you probably have a ton of them, right?”“No, just my sister. Wait, why would you think that?”“’Cause, you know…” he shrugs. “You’re Mexican!”In retrospect, this probably should have been a red flag back then. Especially as he immediately followed it up by explaining that “[his] wife is Mexican” so he “knows how it is.” I didn’t know it then, but that was only the tip of the iceberg on things that were said to me there.—Gyllian Flynn coined the ‘Cool Girl’ archetype in her novel Gone Girl:In other words, she’s a girl who makes men as comfortable as possible when they’re around her. She laughs along with their shitty jokes, maybe joins in on them, and certainly never challenges a guy to maybe think more critically about what’s falling out of his mouth. She’s usually the solitary woman in the group, either because she’s “only friends with guys,” or, as is often the case in tech and gaming, is literally the only woman in the room.It’s a trap, though. This status is only granted to girls who are cool on her male colleague’s terms — the second she steps outside the bounding box of that status, she is ostracized, or at the very least, looked at differently forever. It’s why sexism and other negative behaviors are so common in the industry. Speaking up about these things, once you’ve already been established as a ‘Cool Girl,’ can at minimum make you a social pariah and at worst, impact your career.And so the Cool Girl I tried to be at Firebrand Games, for a while anyway. I pretended I didn’t care when I was being insulted, because it’s all in good fun, right? I was one of the guys.—Fast forward to a few months down the line.“Kennedy is They were talking about the way certain actresses aged “badly.” They did this a lot. Picking apart the appearances of everyone from celebrities to random passersby on the street. Taking particular glee in tearing down conventionally unattractive women. Making up little stories as to how they got to that point in their life. Does it matter that none of these guys are particularly attractive or socially graceful in their own right? No, but it’s probably worth mentioning.“Yeah, just wait till she hits like, 25, and her hips just start swelling up like a balloon,” said Robert.“And I mean, she ““Yeah, you just wait,” said Robert, leaning back at his dirty dishes and empty bottles-covered desk. Robert was a particularly loathsome person to work with, due largely to him being so two-faced. He talked a lot of game about feminism in the industry and generally tried to come off as very progressive — maybe the male equivalent of the Cool Girl archetype? It didn’t actually matter, because it was completely hollow. The second I was out of the room (or, even when I was “Holy “Yeah, holy “Greasy hair — ““Smoking a cigarette — ““With like, three kids running around her.”This was another thing they delighted in — speculating on how many kids I was going to end up with. They did this specifically because I said early on that I had no interest in having children at any point. Apparently that idea didn’t sit well with them, because from then on I got grief for it What exactly do you do in this situation? These two guys, along with the producer, were about the only people in the office that bothered to talk to me. If I stopped associating with them, I’d be completely alone in the place. If I asked them to stop, then I’d have shown weakness and they’d just have one more thing to dogpile on me for. If I put my foot down, I’d lose my Cool Girl status.It’s not as if there were any other supervisor I could talk to, either. We had no HR department. There was the CEO, but he was rarely in the office. There was the producer, Alex, but he was essentially a lame duck. At times I thought he was actually And this was barely even noteworthy, compared to the other things they’ve said or done. Robert was fond of lobbing cunt, wetback, bitch, etc freely; while Nick was particularly fixated on the idea of me being pregnant. Like…really, But I did what any aspiring Cool Girl would do — pretended I didn’t care. I flipped the bird, propped my feet up on my desk, laughed it off.While going home later and contemplating driving my car off a bridge just so I wouldn’t have to ever come in to work again.—It’s a lot like an abusive relationship; the way women in these situations make excuses for the male friends and colleagues that treat them poorly under the guise of camaraderie.“They didn’t “They were just kidding.”“It was my own fault — I shouldn’t have responded at all.”“It’s not that big of a deal. It could always be worse.”On the subject of self-deception, these men probably don’t actually believe they’re sexist or racist. Most people don’t. Most men in the industry probably read the horror stories about sexism that get passed around the internet and consider themselves completely separate from— and free of the sins of — their peers.In 2014, But when you’re surrounded by your abusers all day every day, it’s easier to just swallow your pride and pretend that it doesn’t bother you than to cause a stir.—I put my computer to sleep, grabbed my keys, and headed for the door.“You going to that concert this weekend after all?” asked Nick.I turned around. “What, Ultra Fest? Hah, not unless I suddenly get about $600 in the next two hours.”He glanced up from his iPad, his eyes doing the ‘elevator’ up and down. “Hey, I’m sure if you went and stood on the corner over there and hung out for a few hours — “Robert howled with laughter, immediately followed up by faux-terror and that sucking noise people make when the room suddenly gets tense.Again, what do you do in this situation? I was getting more and more fed up by the day. If a dude ever said this to me at a bar, I’d punch him in the balls. This was my boss, though. What could I possibly do to save face? He obviously said it because he wanted a response.So my response was walking over and tossing a few of his action figures and figurines off his desk.“Now pick ’em up. Trash.” I spat, turning to leave.A completely useless gesture, I know, but at least I got a laugh out of Robert from it. That was the game, essentially. As long as I never realized quite how toxic groups like this are until I found out I was doing the same thing to my boyfriend as they were doing to me. Teasing is something we’ve always done with each other, but completely ripping in to someone is a completely different thing, as he told me one night after we got home from dinner with friends.“What do you mean?” I asked. “I was just kidding.”“Yeah, but you’re being a real I paused. I hadn’t said anything at the table that was any worse than things I’ve heard at work. Isn’t that just how guys operate with their friends? By “busting each others’ balls?” Did I just not know how far was too far anymore?What was this place turning me into?—Mark, the CEO, sat at the head of the table as I walked in to the conference room.“So…I understand you’re having some problems with some of lads out there?” he asked, looking down his glasses.“You could say that,” I said. This conversation was coming a bit too late, as this was, in fact, Nick’s last day at the studio. He’d gotten a job elsewhere, a fact which made it sink in to me that he would never ever be held accountable for any of the things he’s said to me. I had reached a boiling point.Somewhere along the line in one of their talks behind my back, Nick and Robert apparently used their combined psychiatric experience and expertise to diagnose me as having some form of Autism. Nick inexplicably took to calling me “Ass-burgers” a couple times. One day after he called me this and immediately followed it up with a particularly nasty rape joke, I went home that night……And publicly called him out on Twitter.It wasn’t exactly a decision I made lightly, my fingers hovering over the Post button. Then I thought about him treating another woman at this new company the same way he treated me. And the next company after that. And how there was nothing I’d ever be able to do about it. And my boiling point hit a new high.I hit send.And that’s why I was sitting across from Mark now, the next morning.“I just don’t understand why you wouldn’t have come to me first,” he asked, apparently forgetting how little time he actually spends in the office, or even the country.“Or me,” chimed in Alex from the corner. I snorted at the thought.“I want you to understand,” Mark began, “that harassment in the workplace is never okay. I absolutely do not accept that behavior from my employees, and if I had known that it was a problem, I would’ve…” as he talked, I noticed something odd. He kept glancing…down…while he was talking to me.Yep. Just…staring at my rack, there. Not even trying to be subtle.“We absolutely want you to be comfortable here,” he said, addressing my chest. My chest did not respond. “I absolutely would have taken the appropriate actions if I had only known this was going on.”“Sure. Okay. I’ll come to you first in the future.”“Is there anything else you’d like to add?” he asked.I stopped, taking in a breath. “Ah, yeah. I do. My face is up here. That’ll be all.”—“Kennedy, can I see you in the conference room?” Alex asked softly.I looked up from my computer. This was several months after talking to Mark. Nick had long fled the studio, and the rest of the office was an icebox. From the day after he left onwards, no one spoke to me unless it was strictly about work. Eventually, I just shut down and started giving them the same silent treatment. I kept my earbuds in at all times, ignoring anyone and everyone around me. I fired off applications to other jobs daily, I worked on my portfolio at night, desperately scrambling for a way out. I went and ate lunch by myself, taking my time so as to put off going back to the office. Even if they triedAnd so I followed Alex. He kept his head characteristically down, his arms tucked close to his sides. I could never actually tell if he was massively passive aggressive, or just really that meek and fearful.I sat down, across from Mark yet again.He sighed, and said the next sentence in a single stream, as if he were reciting something he’d repeated many times before: “Kennedy, as you probably know the company is just not doing well at the moment, some downsizing and other changes are going to have to happen, and for that reason I’m going to have to let you go. So if you could just collect your things and we’ll work out….” He kept talking, now having reached a mumble as I nodded flatly. It’s not like I didn’t know it was coming. It was just a matter of The office was somehow even quieter as I walked out to get my stuff. Did they know? They definitely knew. Didn’t matter. If nothing else, at least I’d never have to come back here again.—The ‘Cool Girl’ trap is, while not the When you’re surrounded by only one particular group, and they constantlyBut, ultimately, you But what choice do you have? Being the Cool Girl is how you survive.Play the game, or lose. But you’ll probably lose anyway.Concept artist. Cartoonist. Writer. Jk I’m actually three kids in a trenchcoat.We publish informed perspectives on fringe topics and add outside narratives to perennial stories — voices worth hearing. Pitches: j.mp/pitch-absurdist

It was a passing remark, and hardly revolutionary — it closely followed the Over the years, I developed the idea by filling in the times on the clock. It has helped to be in tech; startups in particular, always begin with a “founding story,” and follow a typical path through Silicon Valley Time (SVT). It’s not perfect, of course. Companies can skip an hour — or in some cases Knowing the general time of a company has made it easier for me to see around corners and better do my job.If you’re already making news at 12:00, you’ve probably been Once in a blue moon, if you’re really bad, you can circle the entire clock in one move. This usually requires a launch that alienates everyone with a mix of presumption and “star power,” exacerbated by the amount of money raised or an over-reliance on PR.My favorite example of this is It’s around 1:00 that the first real article is written about your company. With the right connections, anyone can make it to 1:00. You’ve launched your product, raised money from a few prominent investors, and your app makes for a good headline. People don’t feel strongly about you, one way or the other, but now they have heard of you, and that matters.Today, many 1:00 companies are the “Uber for” something, like Rounding 2:00 is a real accomplishment — many startups never make it this far. At 2:00, you are seeing real traction. You haven’t quite reached escape velocity, but the momentum is exciting, which you can see on Twitter and in the increasing amount of tech coverage you’re getting. Smart takes in Buzzfeed, Re/Code, and The Verge are accompanied by vanity metrics. Bigger companies start to wonder (a) why their version of your thing isn’t as popular as your thing, and (b) whether and how fast they can copy your thing and make it their thing.With its breakout at SXSW early this year, Meerkat Not every company spends time at 3:00. Some burn out after takeoff. Others skip to a later hour. But things get interesting at 3:00. Most importantly, mainstream business press (New York Times, Bloomberg, Wall Street Journal) start to pay attention. They give your story credibility by attempting to paint the bigger picture.Examples of once-3:00 companies include Airbnb, Square, and Uber. In each case, the early product was interesting — rent out your spare bedroom (or crash on someone’s couch); accept a credit card on your phone; hail a black car on demand. But as they grew, these companies’ greater potential — if nothing else, for “disruption” — became clear. For Airbnb, that meant upending the hospitality industry; for Square, increasing access to financial services; for Uber, cruising past the taxi market and changing the nature of transportation. 3:00 companies are a diverse bunch.Zenefits, which Forbes writes is “disrupting a stodgy industry most people know nothing about: small business human resources,” is At 4:00, business (and media) momentum drives your recruiting. Everyone wants to work for the next big thing, which makes your company the hottest in the Valley. Your press@ alias is blowing up and you’re drowning in opportunities. So you do everything: that means Today, At 5:00, everything is gravy. You’re growing fast and your valuation is skyrocketing. Reports that you’re losing money? If you’re at 5:00, those reports are irrelevant. Your strategy is smart, your projections are sound, and your successful execution is inevitable. You’re a winner.In a company’s journey, growth and success are followed by struggles and doubt. Which is why, at the top of the mountain, there is no where to go but down.It starts at 6:01. From there, it’s a choose-your-own-adventure of negative storylines. “Failure to innovate.” “Monetization problems.” “Employee exodus.” The dreaded “privacy issues.” Each company’s turn around the clock is unique, but there are some common themes.Dropbox’s alleged product development “s — show” and “slowing innovation” Twitter — having rounded the clock several times — is dealing with a special I spent several years at Google trying to move YouTube Foursquare has been Square (the company where I work) spent its fair share of time at 9:00 during mid-2014. At 9:00, everything is perceived to be bad news for you, 10:00 is plagued by reports of executive departures and “turmoil.” It becomes harder to recruit new employees, which endangers your company’s ability to grow, ship, and drive a conversation.And here come the Facebook — though it may not be there now — was once the At 11:59, criticism becomes personal. You see a lot of Today, the They’ve built you up. They’ve torn you down. So now what?Everyone loves a comeback.Today, a little over one year into Also like a clock, once you round midnight you start over. They love you again, until they don’t any more, and then the clock (and this analogy) falls apart and your company can bend It’s not worth it. A negative story has nothing to do with you. It also doesn’t help. When you’re angry, you look defensive. You overreact and make mistakes. Don’t yell at reporters for doing their job — it gets you nowhere. Just take the punch and move on.In a crisis (after 6:00), you feel like you have to Your company isn’t perfect. You’ve made mistakes. It’s OK to own up to them. Humility shrinks the target on your back. What would you have done differently? What have you learned? How will you apply those lessons moving forward? Being reasonable also gives you credibility. You’ll have more battles to fight in the future — don’t waste your credibility fighting something that’s already been litigated. Save it: it’s a precious resource.If you read the news in 2010, We’ve tried to bring that same discipline of focusing on customers to Square, and So just ignore the chatter and ship. If your business is a good one and you know how to manage the clock, your story will take care of itself.In time.Follow Backchannel: All around random information obsessive, Square comms guy, newish dad.Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

The Hair of the Dog is a sports bar located in the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Like most sports bars in New York, it has an ungodly number of televisions, a beer pong table and 3.5 stars on Yelp. More importantly though, Hair of the Dog has a single dollar price rating (“$”), which is really important when your goal is to be drunk by 3PM.In October 2013, my cofounder and I were in negotiations to sell The week before my company was sold, there was little I could do except sit around and wait. My team (there were three of us at the time — my cofounder, our first employee and me) would come into the office around 9AM and finish up whatever pressing tasks we had for the day by noon. Then, we’d head down to Hair of the Dog and try to kill time by drinking until happy hour ended at 8PM. The week we spent at Hair remains a hazy blur for me, but I’ve had more than a year of sobriety to reflect on the business that I started, grew and sold. These are the five most important lessons I learned from my time at Caskers.While most startups these days seem to spend money lavishly, we built Caskers on a shoestring budget. We had come up with a business model that didn’t require inventory (much less office space). The backbone of our website was an ecommerce plugin for WordPress that was free. We customized a theme that we had purchased for $35 to the extent that we could, and hired a developer in India to help us build out what we couldn’t. Our largest initial expense was actually our logo, which we got after running three design contests and cost $800. In total, it only cost us $1,200 to build our entire website before launching.After we launched, we focused on growing the company as frugally as possible.Being incredibly frugal was the most important lesson I learned at Caskers. Since we never spent any money, we never had to worry about running out of cash. In addition, being frugal allowed us to offer incredible value to our customers: every dollar that we saved in terms of our own expenses was another dollar we could pass along to our customers in terms of lower prices.When we launched Caskers, we had no marketing or advertising budget. As a result, I knew that we’d only be able to build brand awareness and acquire customers by (i) making a product that people loved and shared with their friends and (ii) getting editors at news publications to write about us.I was relentless in hacking growth. Here are a few days I did it:Ultimately, we were able to generate millions of dollars in revenue without spending a dime on customer acquisition.We were focused on growing our community as fast as possible and experimented rapidly with new ideas. If something was working, we’d devote more of our time to it. If it wasn’t, we scrapped it and tried something new.Here are a few examples of things we experimented with:Experimenting with new ideas to market our company and sell spirits consumed a large amount of my time. Without experimenting though, Caskers would not have been a fun place to work. More importantly though, Caskers would not have grown as quickly as it did.Ultimately, a startup is the sum of all the things you do and all the things you don’t do. There were many things we didn’t do, some for better or worse.Being a startup founder requires making live-or-die decisions with limited information and finite resources and under intense pressure. Making decisions quickly is important, but rushing into decisions is a mistake.One of the greatest challenges I faced as a founder was to ignore the noise of other startups. While other startups were raising rounds seemingly effortlessly, it was difficult to accept, much less be proud of the fact that my company hadn’t raised a dime and didn’t employ anyone (other than my cofounder and me) for a long period of time. Looking back on it, it’s easy to wear our lean operation as a badge of honor but at the time, it felt like we were failing.Each startup is unique and the best way to build a successful company is to capitalize on your strengths and overcome your weaknesses. I learned that I couldn’t be pressured by the success of other startups — I learned to be resolved so that I could build the company I wanted to build.In terms of what I’ve learned, in terms of the experiences I’ve had, and in terms of the friendships I’ve formed, starting, growing and selling Caskers has been the greatest experience of my life. So Far.About Me: I was the cofounder and CEO of @I built Sharing our ideas and experiences

Somewhere in the Bay Area, a developer teeters on the edge of insanity.For the last 60 hours, he’s been A/B testing one word against another (“Get” or “Buy!” or “Install”?), one screenshot against the next. Delirious, he starts to A/B test reality — is that penguin really making paninis? — but all will be worth it in the end if he can manage to realize the impossible American dream: Convince you to pay Should he beat the odds, he’ll then take your What the hell is going on here?That’s long been the promise on Wealthfront’s homepage: A $100,000 account for less than $20 a month.Wealthfront Then let us be clear: A 30-year old who invests $100,000 in his retirement with Wealthfront “for less than a night at the movies” will likely pay the company over $100,000 in fees by his 75th birthday.If he sets aside additional money from his salary over that time period — say, $15,000 per year — the fees could come to half a million or more. Still less than a night at the movies, assuming you also had to produce the movie.This is all a great deal for Wealthfront. If they hook enough young professionals early, the company gets to invest their money for the rest of their lives, skimming a larger and larger portion off the top as it compounds. Heck, I like this model enough that I consider investing in Wealthfront, Inc. at least twice a year.But it’s not such a good deal for you. There are other options available that would enable you to stop working years earlier, and that fact gets buried in the Here it is: If you open a retirement account, and you invest some of your paycheck each month into a …you don’t do anything when the folks on CNBC announce that the sky is falling; you don’t do anything when Cousin Eddy calls from a secure underground bunker in the badlands and says that the fed is printing money and it’s time to liquidate and ammo up; you don’t think it’s a sign that your parrot said “fuhgeddaboutit” but you thought she said “get a nugget” and surely that must mean a gold nugget? and you looked online and noticed that the price of shiny yellow metal was crashing and wait your parrot is … no, if you just …then you will probably make more money than if you hired the guy from Edward Jones, and even that Senior Executive Double-Stuf Vice Managing Director from Goldman Sachs. You will probably make more money than if you outsourced your investments to the kindly rabbi who performed your bris because my gosh how nice is he for offering to do my finances and I’m really starting to see him as a sort of father figure. And you will probably make more money than if you used Wealthfront.The financial industry has spent decades and billions persuading people of the opposite — that investing is difficult, that it requires sophisticated certifications and products, that you better not go it alone, that it takes a lot of time. It’s not true.Don’t take my word for it; Buffett recommends Vanguard because once you tune out the rhetoric from both coasts, one unassailable fact remains: As a non-profit that is owned by you and other shareholders, That’s a pretty harsh reality for competitors, but it’s nothing a little creative marketing can’t mollify. Wealthfront’s CEO Of all the tall tales in Wealthfront’s Here’s even more good news: When it became illegal to sell foie gras in California, many generous restauranteurs decided to just give it away*!(* Seriously, if someone at Wealthfront can justify the Because they On and on it goes:and:and worst of all:The divide between an “index fund fee,” which you pay to Vanguard to manage a collection of securities that track an index, and Wealthfront’s fee, which you pay to Wealthfront to manage a collection of securities that track an index, is a distinction without a difference. And it’s the oldest Wall Street trick in the book — the financial advisor who treats his esteemed clients to FREE! luxury box seats at the big game (*** when you pay him $10,000 a year).Bottom line: Existing index funds trounce Wealthfront when it comes to the annual expense of owning the U.S. equity market. Please It’s a wonder that with so many brilliant folks in Wall Street and in Silicon Valley, there is so much confusion over the definition of “free.”Schwab, for instance, thinks its new Wealthfront Wealthfront also likes to take Schwab to task for A quick recap:Wealthfront trades are certifiably the latter. If they’re going to play this game, I wish they would at least do it the Silicon Valley way — with creepily overtargeted ads.To the extent the SEC allows, Wealthfront argues that the benefits of its automated tax loss harvesting service can outweigh its fees. In short, they argue that there’s free money on the table.This kind of claim crops up often in the investing world, so here’s a flowchart I use whenever I’m presented with a golden opportunity:First, let’s get a few pesky facts out of the way:Having said this, let me be clear: Wealthfront and I strongly agree that tax loss harvesting can improve aftertax returns. But as with so many Wall Street firms, and contrary to its own holier-than-thou marketing, Wealthfront wildly overstates the benefits. There is simply no evidence, nor any theoretical reason, to believe that a portfolio managed with Wealthfront will outperform a simple Vanguard portfolio bought and held for retirement, once you account for Wealthfront’s fees.The key gimmick that undermines Wealthfront But again and again, Wealthfront tries without blinking to draw a straight line between tax alpha and cold hard cash. For example, they offer a chart titled “After-tax Price Return of VTI vs. Direct Indexing” that appears to show that if you had merely flipped on Direct Indexing in 2000, you would have earned ~2% compared to losing 9% with Vanguard’s ancient index fund technology! They appear to reach these numbers simply by adding the maximum possible tax alpha to VTI’s return.All these cases neglect to mention that So where else might you find these gains that Wealthfront will magically offset? Well, if you look at the fine, fine print on that In other words, Wealthfront will now partially offset the gains that you were only ever forced to realize by switching to the service in the first place. Hooray!There are plenty of other holes in Wealthfront’s claims, which are In short: When evaluating the benefits of tax loss harvesting, presumptively calculating and compounding anything beyond the government’s capped annual income deduction is like saying that you just made $400 million because you decided not to buy a 747 — okay, sure, but good luck trading that in for beer.Calm down, capitalists: Wealthfront should absolutely charge as much as people are willing to fork over. In fact, I hope they convince some folks to pay a million dollars a year, so that more informed clients like you can get it for free. (That’s how Wall Street works. It’s why you’re receiving 2% cash back on your credit card while your neighbor pays 12% on his. But it’s also why I’m not asking why Wealthfront helps itself to such margins, which is Or, to use an example closer to home: TurboTax doesn’t get to take a cut of every dollar you make until they put you in the ground, even though, like Wealthfront, they have a direct hand in growing your money. Navigating the Pease deduction cap, the Minimum Tax Foreign Tax Credit on Exclusion Items (“MTFTCE” for “short”), and the year-to-year tango in the rest of the U.S. tax code, is arguably far more intricate than passive index investing. But Intuit has to make do with fifty bucks a year — and even that is a miracle in this day and age. TurboTax doesn’t even get a bonus for maximizing your refund, but When it comes time to market to those who work at Google and at Facebook and at Twitter, Wealthfront all but demands that we evaluate it as a technology company than a stuffy banking firm. Yet It’s not just that Wealthfront charges users for its software, which is rare. It’s not just that Wealthfront charges users a recurring subscription feeAnd Wealthfront enjoys other invaluable perks over most consumer tech companies: It does all this automatically, without having to notify users or seek proactive permission (Wealthfront also boasts high switching costs. Sure, there’s no account transfer fee — you can take your balls and go home at any time. But with Direct Indexing, you’ll be walking away with thousands of individual stocks. Do you plan to manage all those by hand? Or liquidate and take the tax hit? Once you go robo, you never go back.The market tolerates this pricing because Wealthfront has pulled the oldest trick on Wall Street: Cherry-picking the benchmark. They’ve anchored us all to something irrelevant, then blown it away before our eyes. How could But for all its bleating about Valley-style tech disruption, Wealthfront is still just milking the pricing precedent that the Street established decades ago:By the time we all knew Uber was better than taking cabs, it was already showing us why it’s better than owning cars. But Wealthfront is still just telling us that they suck less than Bank of America. If you insist on wrapping yourself in the cuddly blanket of Silicon Valley, then you must also take the swing.Here’s what that means to me: The standout technology companies here take repetitive, mundane, ridiculous chores that no human should ever have to do — rebalancing retirement funds across 9,000 companies, or calculating the generation-skipping gift tax — and write code once to do them for us a million times over.This technology helps wring out real, quantifiable savings; the code doesn’t care if that net worth integer is 1,000 or 1,000,000. These cost benefits are so obvious and undeniable that the sales team doesn’t even need tricks to close the deal; they just need to write down the truth.Those savings are then passed on to the consumer, even as the founder walks off — yes, just like Wall Street — with a huge barrel of money. So much is created in the nuclear transition from unscalable human effort to unrelenting CPU that both the house and the gambler can win big.This might surprise you, then: I’m certain that Wealthfront, or something like it, is the future. There is tremendous alpha to be realized through automation — if you’ve ever paid a bill one day earlier than you had to, or left a penny uninvested one day longer than required, then you know this must be true. It is inevitable that computers will optimize our cashflow, our investments, and our taxes to a degree that will make the status quo look downright laughable to our grandkids. The right solution in this space will mean people can retire earlier and spend more of their time doing what they love. I desperately want to see it exist so I can recommend it to my mother, and my brother — and use it myself.But for now, Wealthfront is just another pretender to the throne, tilting at Schwab windmills and Fidelity bogeymen even as it tacitly joins them in guarding Wall Street’s greatest secret: It doesn’t have to be this way. You don’t have to work harder and harder into your gray years, paying more and more of your paycheck to an advisor who is doing the same amount of work as the day you two shook hands.So, We can do better than this. We have to be better than this. Stop charging proportional fees for advice.Founder @ Firefox, Former Director of Product @ Facebook

My fingertips danced with delight as I frantically typed away at my computer. “I just saw a new Black person! Does anyone know who it is?” I circulated the email to the “Blackbirds,” Twitter’s internal group for Black employees. In my three years as Manager of Journalism and News at the company, I was always thrilled whenever a new hire of color joined our ranks. By the end of the day, the Blackbirds were buzzing amongst ourselves. We lavished the new employee with our customary welcome to Twitter’s vibrant workplace.Weeks after our new colleague’s induction, I had to break the news to the group that I would soon leave the company I loved. Witnessing firsthand the lack of faces of color instilled in me the desire to apply my technology skills toward the visibility of Blacks in media.At Twitter, an Facebook and Google’s So why aren’t there more Black people roaming the campuses of technology companies?The most impactful detriment to diversity in Silicon Valley is the idea of “culture fit.” Employees are actively encouraged to suggest friends or former colleagues for open roles. The premise is if the employee and the candidate have a congenial relationship outside of the company, the new recruit is more likely to work well with other staffers. The recommendedWhite Americans have 91 times as many white friends as Black friends, according to the Additionally, candidates are pooled from the same universities. The Stanfords and Berkeleys of the world, which themselves suffer from low numbers of enrolled students of color, are considered the gateway to top talent.Black candidates who do get their foot in the door face another set of problems. Employees of color are statistically paid less by a considerable margin, according to the At Twitter, the number of service, janitorial and security contractors of color far outpaced the number of full-time employees from minority backgrounds. Because of this shortcoming, nearly every Black and Latino employee at Twitter knew each other, if not by sight then by name. When we saw each other in the bird-themed hallways, we’d offer a head nod or smile, even if we worked on separate teams. Three or more Black or Latino staffers gathered together was a rare sight, one that would amusingly cause heads to turn.I empathize with managers who don’t consider racial disparity to be an issue worth resolving. Those who do not experience its effects firsthand will find it difficult to give it credence. But to put oneself in the mindset of a minority employee isn’t much of a stretch. Imagine for a moment being the only man at a bachelorette party or the only woman at a packed nightclub. There is nothing intrinsically wrong with either, but it is an unnerving feeling. After a while, you may withdraw into yourself or speak less. You need backup. You need people who look like you.While in my position, I was frequently the only person of color in meetings, both internal and external. On many occasions when visiting another company, a Black employee would pull me to the side. They’d say in a hushed tone “I didn’t know any of I wholeheartedly commend Twitter and other companies like it who have taken action to amend the disparity. Like many Twitter employees past and present, I was overwhelmed with joy when In my time at Twitter, I saw firsthand the impact that Black users had on the platform, the importance of which was often taken for granted. Black people employ the technology to drive cultural and political conversations 140 characters at a time. Many news stories, from the mostly white membership of the Academy Awards to the slaying of a seemingly unending number of Black people at the hands of police, gained traction because of a highly conversational network of Black social media users known as “Because of their centrality in online discourse, Black users want to see themselves reflected in the products in which they invest their time. Understandably, some platforms maintain impartiality. They cannot or do not tailor their product to particular demographics. However, communities of color want to know that at the very least they are represented in the company’s staffing.There is also a financial incentive for tech companies to invest in a diverse workplace. Advertisers are eager to crack the ethnic code and commodify online communities like Black Twitter. Explaining the social and search habits of these users often falls on the handful of Black employees, without regard to their position or team.Until my tenure at Twitter, I strongly resisted being “the Black guy.” I didn’t want to be the sole representative of a multifaceted group of people or be siloed into focusing on Black issues. My position shifted after the shooting death of Mike Brown and the inception of the “Black Lives Matter” protests. I realized that I and other Black employees could be the voice for a community of users who had been largely ignored or misunderstood by social media companies.At the height of the events in Ferguson, Missouri, I stood up in an office-wide meeting to make a declaration. I took a breath and encouraged my colleagues to feel free to “ask a Black guy” any race-related questions they had. Many approached me privately to take me up on the offer.My decision to leave Twitter was founded in that moment. I vowed to put greater focus on a side project that I’d been working on in whatever spare time I had. I poured my energy into Tech companies who have not actively taken steps toward greater diversity cannot be granted more excuses for why they lack Black employees. The next generation of engineering dynamos of color currently have comparatively few references to look up to. A growing movement to educate children of color in the sciences and technology aims to alter this trajectory.Younger social media and internet users must be shown that technology like Twitter is not simply a means for communication. It is also a platform that they can build on and influence. Hackathons must become as popular as science fairs for the next generation to have a chance at positions in the tech industry.The deficiency of people of color is a complex and cyclical problem that should be addressed at every point — from education and recruitment to employee retention. This change will require more than posting a hashtag in a public venue or darkening the color of a logo on a T-shirt. The key to a diverse workplace is the allocation of resources to internal and external initiatives and, most importantly, the will to see its improvement.Tech companies must reflect the communities they serve. If not, they risk alienating the users most responsible for their success. There will be a point when the brief public shaming that accompanies jarring diversity reports will not subside. If the new age of social media has demonstrated anything, it is that a smattering of voices can snowball into a powerful and sustained protest. The core of Black users who have initiated worldwide movements will turn their attention to the platforms themselves.To ignore the racial makeup of a workforce is also a disservice to the company itself. The best teams don’t share similar backgrounds or perspectives. Without a variety of voices contributing ideas, the workplace becomes a homogenized environment where potential brilliance may never be achieved. Diversity should rightly be seen as a benefit to growth, not an obstruction to avoid.Author of The Digital Journalist’s Handbook and the new novel, DO U. Former Manager of Journalism  News 

Many of these coffee dates have been with individuals in more traditional jobs who think they want to work at Twitter or Google, the two companies where I’ve spent the last 15 years. Journalists and editors, too, approach me in large number. So do numerous over-40 types who wonder how to move into the tech world, famous (or infamous) for its orientation to a younger crowd. And some advice-seekers have been bright-eyed new grads, typically with social science or liberal arts backgrounds, pinning their hopes on getting into the storied Bay Area tech scene in some capacity or other.Sure, I’m interested in coffee. But I think one big reason I’m sought after for these conversations is that despite my liberal arts background, I’ve lasted in the tech world for 30 years. If I can do it, you probably can, too. I say “probably” because there are some characteristics of the space that have nothing to do with coding or technical preparation — and everything to do with attitude, EQ and flexibility.All these meetups have led me to develop a bit of a stump speech on what it means, and how it is, to work in tech. It’s not for everyone, to be sure. I learned that myself when I got into Google — at age 51.Constitutionally, I am an observer, not a joiner. About half of my years around technology businesses were working for the magazines, books and sites that covered all manner of software and hardware. I wrote for tech companies like Mathematica, Sun, AvantGo and Apple and consulted for interactive agencies whose clients were tech businesses.But after suffering through the I had to learn how to fit in at an already established four-year-old culture that prized qualities I hadn’t had to think much about before. When you join a company like Google or Twitter or fill-in-the-blank, there’s no glide path once you’re inside. Your work is just beginning.But that proviso shouldn’t stop you. The appeal, and the rewards, are great—and I’m not talking about stock options. You will be working on something that millions of people use every day, that makes some part of life or work easier, that advances some human effort or knowledge.For you indomitable spirits keen to get into the game, here are a few hard-won conclusions and pointers from me. If nothing else, my years in tech businesses (and now my gray hair!) might lend an air of authority to what follows. But as the saying goes, The working definition of “tech” most eager supplicants use is pretty much any consumer software service, platform, app or device that is widely adopted by regular people. Tech doesn’t as often mean the bigger, older “plumbing” companies, such as Cisco or Intel, or the array of enterprise service businesses that include Oracle, SAP or IBM, even though they, too, are built on software. Wall Street might lump us all together, but we don’t. And let’s face it, the draw of a name-brand company is strong. It’s fun to utter the name of your employer and have people nod in instant recognition (and with luck, confer extra cred on you). I’m very lucky indeed to name-drop two iconic companies.I should add that the tech world also includes scads of service businesses—the agencies that develop mobile apps or manage social channels or build back-ends—that are dynamic and challenging and full of smart people. These days you can’t turn around without finding companies that might describe themselves as being in logistics, payments or healthcare and are all powered by technology. There are only so many jobs at the biggest companies; it’s worth thinking more broadly about what “tech” can offer.Now on to what you have to bring to the party. Some of these came easily to me, but some were hard-won.As a dyed-in-the-wool art/English/history type, I would never have considered myself “curious” about the unfolding world of binary bits and terabytes and all they could deliver. But my early love for all that the Internet brought my way (in 1995 I Don’t bother with tech if you’re not At the risk of denigrating the insurance or banking industry, it’s not a given that workers in those businesses must be fired up over actuarials or amortization. But in tech, if you’re not all-in on what the company is building, shipping and selling, it’s not likely to go well for you. If you don’t follow “your” tech’s line of business or use its product, you can’t help inform its development, evangelize about it, or be as engaged on the job. I can’t imagine, for example, working at Twitter but not using it. My love for and early use of Twitter contributed greatly to my being hired there.In my earlier days, I wasn’t initially drawn to, say, companies that made hard drives or routers (though some people might be, and more power to them). But in my liberal-arts way I was very drawn to what good search, and the promise of finding information, might offer. And 15 years ago, who among us could have dreamed where search would lead? I’m just glad I was aware of Google in 1998, and had a friend who already worked there.That friend and I had worked together at two previous companies and kept in touch. In a fast-moving sector such as tech, it’s common that people move around fairly often, and often make those moves via their network. If you’re lucky and diligent—if you keep up in a more-than-transactional fashion with colleagues as they fan out—your network becomes gold.I’ve found it to be more true in the Bay Area than elsewhere that your ability to put your network to work on behalf of your friends (and even your At Google the ethos was very much about aptitude, not experience. Your past accomplishments do not weigh more in your favor than the qualities you can demonstrate in the moment: curiosity, problem solving, critical thinking, intellectual range. Your experience counts in so far as you have proven skills for the level of job you seek. But today, in a tech company, you are expected to refresh and upgrade those skills, and to call on them in new ways. Don’t regale us with how you did it back then; show us how you approach our situation here and now.Related: Some in my age cohort are uneasy about having a younger manager. My only advice is, get over it. It’s inevitable. Honestly, I wouldn’t want to work somewhere that As a seasoned word wrangler, my edits on a lot of corporate content (company web copy, blog posts, even Tweets) goes unquestioned. But that’s not because my colleagues revere my decades of editing and writing experience; it’s because I’m good at what I do — I’m fast, not precious about my efforts and don’t make the good the enemy of the best. Even so, I can’t always assume that my word goes. Because I work with subject-matter experts across the company, I often need to introduce myself to someone new in order to make a case about phrasing or tone or even to discuss why we’re saying what we’re saying. I don’t always win. Earlier in my career, having to do that really rankled. But communicating is subjective, and I’ve learned to consider a bunch of factors beyond style when I edit.I’m no athlete, but the nature of these sports is the closest I can come to explaining how in the tech world you must forever anticipate the swells, currents, rocks, hills and other impediments and go into them or around them as the situation requires. Your prize, always, is staying upright or getting upright again, quickly. I’ve experienced scores of instances where a well-conceived plan was blown up at the last minute in favor of some other action — or none. Sometimes there’s a fire drill or a quick ‘war room’ setup that ends up with “nothing to share at this time,” in PR parlance.In the beginning of 2014, for example, I had a team of 10 at Twitter across several categories: editorial, internal communications, web design and social media. We started off doing our various jobs according to plans we’d developed and shared. Twelve months later, eight of the 10 people in my team were different — and their groupings and tasks had changed, too. If I was hell-bent on fulfilling some mission we had put forth in January, by December I would have been beyond irritated.But working in tech, I know never to view my charter or responsibilities as absolutes. As the company’s needs change, my role evolves. You have more value if you roll with whatever comes along.A simple example of this nimbleness is with respect to your physical work space. At Google, I sat in six buildings over nine years. At Twitter, I’ve had six seats in two buildings in three years — and I hear we’re moving in a few months. The tech office setup tends to be open plan (cubicles are passé), so your most constant tools are a laptop and a mobile phone. Some years back, Google quit providing desk phones for employees, as no one used them. These days, land lines (or at least non-mobile phone units) tend to appear only in conference rooms, which you can reserve. If this nearly nomadic arrangement doesn’t appeal, think twice about pursuing a company whose business encompasses technology. The last time I inhabited a dedicated, closed-door office was in 1989.In order to successfully ski, surf or sail your way through an ever-changing work environment, it’s also imperative to keep a bit of personal distance from your projects. A company can ditch a product strategy you’ve been inhaling for months or years. People you’ve worked side by side with may get jettisoned simply because the need for certain skills or the focus area changes. (You yourself might be one of these individuals.) There are key values or messages you’ve sweated over in product development, marketing or sales that get killed overnight in favor of a new notion.Sometimes it’s worth fighting for your work, but often you’re going to need to go along with the new new thing or come up with a different idea. People who can’t easily detach from the previous plan aren’t going to like working in tech. Real-world situations, whether technical, political or competitive, will inevitably override some well-crafted game plans.When I got to Twitter in 2011, I experienced a detachment challenge right away. I was hired as the company’s first editorial director in a nascent marketing function, to develop Twitter’s voice on corporate material. I’d prepared a detailed plan, did competitive research, and had begun an audit of materials. Two weeks later, the company parted ways with the head of the PR team and asked me to fill in there. So of course I put my original job spec aside and managed that team for the next six months as I worked to bring in my successor. Only then could I return to the assignment I came for.More regularly since then, I’ve worked on projects and drafted plenty of verbiage that has never seen the light of day. It happens.But there’s always another wave — and here it comes, now.Reporters, writers and editors work in a setting where the scoop, byline and masthead are the main prizes. It’s not like that in tech. Most everything requires cross-team collaboration, and virtually everyone gets to kibitz and weigh in regardless of seniority. Furthermore, not everyone (or even the ones who did the most) will get the credit. Pride of ownership takes a back seat to the joint effort. Of course, not everyone’s contributions are equal, and more often than not one or two people end up on top of the recognition heap. Unless you’re an engineer or product manager, you are unlikely to be one of them.These days, because collaboration is paramount in the development of ideas, most young (or so-called modern) companies use Google Apps or similar collaborative tools that let invited parties edit, strike through, comment, raise questions and individually sign off, so that the thing ends up being created by committee. It’s absolutely messy — but far preferable to the thankless business of managing version control in Word docs. That approach reflects a hierarchical sensibility and slowness that tech companies can’t tolerate.Google’s famous 20 percent time (no longer an established practice, but the spirit remains), Twitter’s scheduled Hackweeks and Facebook’s Hackathons are the basis for developing new ideas for products, typically by ad hoc teams coming together to work something out quickly. Everyone pitches in, and it’s typically a team that wins for its effort — not an individual. Those who crave public recognition won’t like this approach, but it’s at the heart of getting things done in tech. Teamwork is hugely prized, even to the extent that someone hired for his or her extraordinary solo skills may not last.One more note on collaboration. Because of the real-time nature of so much of technology, and the huge appetite for news about what tech companies are doing, it’s not uncommon to be quietly tapped for something that is very hot, very sudden, or very confidential, if not all three.One Saturday while at Google I got a call from a colleague: could I be at the office at 4 am Monday morning? Of course. I knew better than to ask what was up. He would never tell, and I didn’t need to know before I got there. I just appreciated that I’d be part of something big. With hot coffee in hand, I rolled up at 3:30 am — to learn that Google was buying Motorola. The “war room” where the main characters assembled was ready to go, and we all jumped into place. You do your part, and catch up on sleep later.Day in and day out, good humor wins over extreme drive, intensity or obsessive focus. These qualities have their place, but the people who exhibit them often move on quickly or stay insulated from the rest of us. People who tend to succeed in tech are able to see the funny bits even as corporate tensions grow. On many teams over the years, the colleagues I’ve valued the most (and coincidentally those who last, and advance) are those with whom I could share an aside or a wry observation. People who can mentally step back a bit to appreciate the comical (or absurd!) aspects of the scene are the ones you want to be around. And it’s the way you want to be yourself in order to survive.The pace of change can be messy and chaotic for those who crave order, but perhaps if you’ve read this far you’re up for it. Make no mistake: I’m a technology optimist. On the whole, we’re way better off with all that’s emerged over the last 50 years than not. To experience it in the making from close up is Follow Backchannel: Word wrangler at Twitter. Media obsessive; art  dog enthusiast. Internet lover. Amused by much. Hopeful. Life-long editor.Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

I am terrible at taking tech interviews. Out of dozens that I’ve done, I may Sometimes they would want to hear something I didn’t know. Other times I just froze on topics that I know very well. (One time I couldn’t even name my favorite video games.) Many times, I failed to perform well on some logic puzzle. Every job I actually got was because a friend made sure that it happened.For years and years I lived in fear of the interview because I knew that I’d fail. At the same time, I knew that I was a very good developer. I was always a go-to guy on my teams, took on large projects alone, and had success as a lead.As I struggled with my own interviewing issues, I set up interview pipelines as a manager that mimicked those that I had experienced. Brain-teasers, tests, technical grilling, the whole works. As I informally observed the track record of those pipelines in hiring great people, I began to realize that the only real predictor of great hires was if the candidate already knew someone on the team. You can’t just go off of one guy’s word that his college buddy is great, though. It’s not fair to your current employee to bear the entire burden of the hiring decision. So what do you do?I finally stumbled upon the cure when I interviewed at a small startup that had a different approach. I met the leads for lunch, then followed up with a social chat with the whole team. We talked tech, but they didn’t try and vet my skills. Instead, they offered me a paid contract to do some work that they actually needed done. They gave just enough direction to get me started and then left me to my own devices to see if I could get it done well, on time, and with good communication. It took me about 10 hours of time in the evenings to complete. Three days later, I had a job offer!Since that day, I have refused to take traditional tech interviews. I politely suggest that a short contract job might be the best option for a company to evaluate a senior developer. This works very well if they are unsure about you. It works even better if they really want you. As an added benefit, you get to see what it’s like to really work with a team before you take a job with them.There have been some companies that refused to use my model, which I totally understand. Those jobs are just simply jobs that I am not going to get anyway. I just thank them for their interest and move on.Succeeding with this approach to interviewing gives you a level of credibility and leverage that you can never get from a traditional interview. I have had a 100% success rate (4/4) in getting job offers from companies that I interview with in this way. The one that I actually accepted was from a company that, instead of hiring me, decided to invest in creating a new startup with me.Some people do very well with traditional interviews and they should stick with what works for them. However, I’d urge any company to really look hard at what their interview process is screening for. Does it accurately produce employees that do great work and fit well with the team? Does it select people who have heard your particular brain teasers before? Are you just going through the motions on interviews and then going with someone’s gut? Maybe that manager is really good at guessing, but what happens when they leave? Think about whether or not the short term contract approach might give you a better idea about a candidate’s value.EDIT: Thanks for all the interest, medium, twitter, and hackernews readers! I didn’t expect a response like this. I guess most engineers have had a terrible interview experience or two… or many.Some quick clarifications to respond to some of the excellent criticism I’ve read today.None of this applies to conversational interviewing. Ask me about closures or what the mutable keyword means all day long. It’s totally important to know if I’ve worked much with CSS(no) or if I know how A* works(yes). What I’ve opted out of is whiteboard coding, brainteasers, live coding, etc. A rule of thumb… if we can discuss it over beer or a bourbon, I’m game.I’m not a “hide him in the corner” sort of coder. I’ve been an Executive Producer in the games world and done tons of team speeches, investor pitches, conference talks, publisher calls, etc. The difference in those settings is that I can nearly always say, “I need to think about that. I’ll get back to you tomorrow.” People tend to respect, “I don’t know that off hand,” too. I’ve learned to prepare and rehearse until I feel natural going from the script or diving into the many conversation tree options that I’ve pre-planned for. I haven’t been able to make these strategies work in a tech interview.On top of that, you never know when you’re walking into an ambush with a tech interview. A great interviewer knows that it’s THEIR job to find out what a candidate is good at, if anything. Most interviewers are not great. Once you’ve got your leg stuck in the bear-trap of a stupid brainteaser, you’ve lost the job. By opting out of entering this minefield, I can filter for the situations where I’m much more likely to succeed and get along with the team.Thanks again for reading and commenting!EDIT 2: A former colleague of mine asked if I would refuse to answer a particular interview question of his. I’d never refuse to answer a tech question in an interview. If I’ve gotten myself into that situation, that’s what I get. It’s disrespectful to not even try. As an interviewer, I’d just assume that the candidate didn’t have a clue if they refused.The goal is to not get into a situation where I’m at the mercy of whatever person is interviewing and have only limited skills in surviving.Freelance developer, aspiring entrepreneur. 

For many people who didn’t grow up in or around New York City, there are a few things that come to mind when they hear the name “Brooklyn.” Many automatically think of hipsters and indie rock concerts. Some think of artsy lofts and farmers markets. Others think of “brownstone Brooklyn,” where one can potentially afford a cute home and raise a middle-class family without the distance and suburban-like qualities of Queens.What people typically don’t think about are the underprivileged communities that exist here, many of which have become home to people priced out of their old homes in brownstone Brooklyn, Williamsburg, and other neighborhoods near Manhattan. For the most part, those who work in the tech industry don’t know or think much about these types of communities. This becomes apparent when highly respected members of the tech community say things like this:What Sam Altman doesn’t realize is that when he says, “anyone,” he actually means, “anyone who holds a socioeconomic status similar to mine.” Let’s talk about those who don’t fall into that category for a little bit.As I’m writing this, I’m sitting in my living room with my buddy Maurice. Maurice is a 14-year-old from a small Brooklyn neighborhood called Even though we’re very different from each other, we’ve got a few things in common. For example, we both have I met Maurice on February 22nd, 2014, at a After the hackathon was over, Maurice gathered every team member’s contact information and wrote it all down on the back of the business card I gave him. Later that night, I received a phone call from him, and he asked if I would be able to teach him how to code. I love teaching, and Maurice seemed like a nice kid, so I offered to help. He immediately said, “okay, go,” and awaited instruction. I explained that I wouldn’t be able to teach him over the phone, but then I found out that he didn’t have internet at home. If that surprises you, you should know that this is actually a bit more common than you may think.Anyway, I suggested that we meet in person, and we arranged a time that weekend for our first lesson. Since Maurice didn’t own a MetroCard or have internet at home, we went to one of two businesses nearby with free WiFi: Dunkin Donuts (the other one is McDonald’s). We had to use my laptop, since his laptop at home didn’t have a working display.I started teaching Maurice the Python programming language, and he picked up the basics pretty quickly. He was eventually able to build a program that calculates a person’s age, given their date of birth. It was extremely humbling to see the look of accomplishment on his face when he got it working. To make sure he’d be able to continue learning in his free time without internet, I downloaded some resources onto a USB drive, including a book on Python programming.Maurice did indeed continue to program in his free time. One problem we ran into was getting him past bugs. The only ways we could communicate were by speaking on the phone or text messaging. Maurice has an These were painful times, but we got through them. He applied for the Shortly after the program ended, Maurice told me that his parents were finally going to get cable internet at their home. This was great for both of us, since he now had fewer obstacles to overcome, and we had fewer issues with communication. However, his journey to becoming a software engineer isn’t quite done just yet. He still has to get through high school and will likely need a substantial amount in scholarships and/or financial aid in order to attend college.At this point, you may be wondering what I’m getting at. You may be thinking that I started off by disagreeing with Sam Altman, and then going on to prove his point that anyone can learn to program. This isn’t the case, however. Let’s think about everything it took to get Maurice to where he is currently.Maurice is also lucky enough to have parents that care for him greatly, and was raised to have a good head on his shoulders. Last time I saw Maurice’s father, he told him, “go build your future!” Maurice was coming over to my apartment to sleep over so that we could attend We must realize, though, that Maurice is an exception. Not everyone in his neighborhood has the same combination of drive and luck. Like all underprivileged communities, there are many families that battle with substance abuse, crime, greater levels of poverty, single-parent homes, and plenty of other issues.Had Maurice been born into a middle-class family, he would’ve had internet access much earlier in life. He would also have had a higher chance of attending a high school that offers a programming or web development course, and his school would likely be of higher quality overall. He’d have the ability to spend money on resources, such as books on programming or even something like a Even when Maurice overcomes all of these obstacles, he’s still going to have a long road ahead of him. Whether people like to believe it or not, racism is rampant in this country, and As a community, we need to make it less difficult for those from underprivileged backgrounds. If you’re in the tech industry and truly care about diversifying the workforce, and Follow Backchannel: Just a crazy kid whose thoughts may get him in trouble one day. Nothing I say reflects the opinions of people who pay me.Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

There’s a lot to get mad about in Nina Burleigh’s No and no and no. And ARRRGH and punch a wall. It is a RED FUCKING HERRING to constantly blame Silicon Valley’s gender problem on a lack of female engineers. If Silicon Valley’s money people or fancy keynote founders or biz whizzes on the cover of And yes there IS a compelling business reason to have women specifically, and diversity generally, around your boardroom table. (How many studies need to be published showing that diversity leads to better bottom-line results? Here’s The conflation of STEM experience with ability to be “in tech” is something that seems to happen far more frequently (and reflexively) where women are concerned — yet it’s a standard that is not similarly imposed on the many, many male entrepreneurs and VCs who participate in the industry. For example, legendary angel investor Ron Conway is not an engineer — and no one would dare question his bona fides. Thrillist founder Ben Lerer, now a VC with Lerer Hippeau Ventures, has won Then why do we keep seeing that standard held up as a prerequisite to joining VC? It doesn’t make sense. And maybe that’s just it. Follow It’s not a reason. It’s an excuse. And it’s bogus.Let’s switch focus for a moment to, you know, all the OTHER areas of concern in Burleigh’s article. Let’s talk about fundraising.(Other estimates say And:Oh is this because all entrepreneurs are engineers? Hm, I think not. Is it because women just don’t have what it takes? Nope, not that either. I know this empirically thanks to I’ve been hearing these stories for years (especially the ““But wait! Tech is a meritocracy!” has come the rejoinder for years, implicitly throwing the onus back to women and minorities to somehow prove that Mark Zuckerberg didn’t get there on merit. But c’mon. “Pattern recognition” is a term of art (see: None of which is to suggest that Mark Zuckerberg is wanting in merit — it just suggests that maybe the meritocracy seen, acknowledged and promoted by Silicon Valley looks a certain way.(Now is the time where I feel the need to say: White dudes are great! They build great products! They invest in great companies! They are great innovators! I bear no ill-will to the white dudes who have paved the way for articles such as this! I just need to point out that white dudes have benefited from an awful lot of grassroots affirmative action in getting there.)And also — not all women! Not all men! There are lots of fantastic women entrepreneurs getting funded — really funded — and their numbers are going up. Katia Beauchamp  Hayley Barna at Birchbox have raised In 2014, It’s actually a weird, semi-unfair time to be a white male investor in Silicon Valley because the onus I referred to above has finally shifted back. When an article like the one in Newsweek comes out, it points a damning finger at the entire industry and re-imagines All of that said — the numbers do not lie. The problem is real. Just because there are amazing women in VC doesn’t mean that the industry overall is getting better —So let’s stop pretending that this is a pipeline problem. It isn’t. There are a ton of qualified women out there, women who can measure up to any similarly-situated man — as long as they’re being judged by the same criteria. Engineers are great, STEM is great, we’re talking about the tech industry, duh. (And support for next-gen orgs like Girls Who Code and Yes We Code and Code 2040 and Black Girls Code is fantastic but does not address the very real problems with this gen.) In the Venn diagram of all the players in the tech industry — which by that way is itself a giant circle overlapping pretty much every other industry at this point — engineers make up just one part. So to say that the reason women are scarce at the highest levels of boardrooms and term sheets is because they’re just not graduating from engineering programs fast enough is false. And dumb.The problem is not with the pipeline, it’s with the industry that the pipeline is piping into. The tech industry needs to stop pretending everything’s cool and start acknowledging that the system is broken. That’s not too hard, is it? Be smart, face facts, do better. It’s the least we can expect from a meritocracy.Top illustration via Media addict on the loose. Changing the ratio. Loving the ladies. Singing the showtunes.Worth your time.

I studied mathematics and computer science in college. I love solving interesting problems at many different levels, from small self-contained puzzles to huge systems with many moving pieces. When I went to the career fair in my last year of school, my name badge read “Major: Math  Computer Science” and swarms of recruiters from technology companies latched on to the computer science half of my anticipated degree, desperate to fill the need that their companies have for software engineers. Since no one was hiring for “professional problem solver” and I wasn’t particularly interested in grad school, the tech industry seemed like a decent enough way to begin my life after college.And thus, with only a vague concept of what my day-to-day job would be, I joined a large and established tech company as a Software Engineer Level 1. I was ready to solve problems big and small!Unfortunately, as a fresh faced engineer on a huge and mature development team I couldn’t help but feel that I wasn’t solving interesting problems at any level. It wasn’t all bad, of course. There were those moments of zen while coding, solving small puzzles, and hunting down bugs, that I think anyone who has programmed extensively can relate to. But as soon I awoke from my state of intense concentration, I would take a step back and not feel any great sense of accomplishment. I felt like a cog in a machine, executing tasks that didn’t have any real meaning to me. I was frankly really I started gravitating to front end development tasks that at least gave me the satisfaction of direct impact on the users (look Ma, that’s my button!). And the more I worked with designers and talked with them about their process, the more I began to believe that design was where the interesting problems really were. The designers were putting together pieces of a giant jigsaw puzzle of user needs and expectations, industry standards, creative explorations, and business requirements. And as the developer I was handed a piece of that puzzle to place in it’s determined spot.I knew I wanted to become a designer. AKA professional problem solver.If you are currently a software engineer and this sounds in any way similar to your story, then this guide is for you. The tech industry is hungry for smart designers who can solve big problems as well as the small. Plus experience as an engineer makes you an extra special unicorn who can understand the technical implications of your designs.My personal opinion is that the true essence of design is the This guide outlines the steps I personally took to transition from development to design. Hopefully they prove useful to any other developers out there who have the desire to become designers.I began tentatively looking in to the design profession through a series of articles, videos, and tutorials available through a site called Hack Design.The site is specifically made for developers and coders who want to learn more about design, so you’ll feel right at home. They also do a great job in their first couple lessons of giving you a sense for what a career in design really means. The very first lesson is simply to watch the documentary After watching Objectified and looking at a few of their other early lessons you can evaluate for yourself if you are still excited to solve these human centered problems or are completely put off by those crazy designers with their crazy pursuit of perfection.Regardless of whether or not you continue down the path of switching to design, it is a good thing for anyone in tech to learn to appreciate design. Just like learning a foreign language, it’s good to do a little each day. Subscribe to If after a few weeks or months of reading articles and observing the world as a designer you are hungry for more, then dive in to the resources in step 2.Now it’s time to familiarize yourself with the basics and learn to think and talk like a designer. These are the Must Haves in your personal list of design resources and things to learn. You may already be familiar with some or all of them, but I wasn’t when I started out so I make no assumptions.There were a bunch of other books and articles I read during my quest to immerse myself in design thinking, but these definitely stand out. Keep your eyes out for anything interesting and relevant to design. There is no short supply.Now that you understand the basics, it’s time to get your hands dirty designing something.Start with a platform you are familiar with and an idea you are passionate about. If you are a web developer who enjoys fishing in your spare time, maybe try designing a website to find the best places to fish. If you are an iOS developer who likes musical theater, maybe design an app to show upcoming shows in your area. It doesn’t matter if a solution already exists, design If you are comfortable drawing, then start your ideation with pencil and paper. Even if you aren’t great with a pencil it is good to get away from the computer for the initial brainstorming stages of your design. After you have an initial concept of what you want to build, you can move to Coming up with your own idea is great practice. Building it is even better, though not necessary. If you have the means to help make design decisions in your current role as a developer then that begins to count as “real world” experience. It can add to your resume and it’s a great way to learn. So talk with your designers, throw out some ideas every now and then, and if they are receptive then help them to design Hopefully there are some designers at your current company who you like and respect. If not, then maybe Step Zero should be finding a new development job at a company where you admire their designs. It will honestly be pretty difficult to pursue all of your design goals completely in your spare time.Working with and talking to experienced designers is a great way to observe their process and get feedback on your own work. Whether its for a side project or something at work, you should be seeking constant feedback on your designs. A good mentor can provide that feedback and speak frankly with you about the other aspects of a design job, such as how to navigate a design review or the best way to work with the product manager. Meet with them regularly even if it’s just to grab coffee and hear how their week has been.As a designer, you will have to learn to sell yourself. It’s not a very comfortable thing at first, but if you are constantly seeking feedback from designers you trust then hopefully you will eventually create a portfolio you are proud to show the world.The current standard is to create a website where you can describe your projects and hopefully show demos or drawings. If some of your work can’t be shown publicly then make sure those projects are password protected so you can control who sees them. And remember: quality over quantity. There are many resources out there on the internet telling you how to build an awesome portfolio, such as this Pro tip: As a developer you might be tempted to build your website yourself and use a mishmash of the cheapest tools out there for hosting, registering a domain name, etc. Nothing will ever be perfect, so don’t be afraid to put yourself and your work out there. Show your portfolio around to design teams you know at your current company and ask what they think is missing and what you could improve. Maybe your hard work and dedication to great design, as seen in your portfolio, will prompt them to offer you a position as a designer on their team. If not, no worries. You can apply to jobs externally as soon as your portfolio is in a reasonable place.When you interview for a design position most places will ask you to do a portfolio review. This is usually a rather lengthy presentation of your work and so you should definitely freshen up your presentation skills. Practice makes perfect, so make sure to review your presentation many times before walking in to the interview. A polished and engaging portfolio review creates a good impression and sets the right tone for any one-on-one interviews that follow. Relax and have fun in the one-on-one interviews. They are usually just looking for how you work and problem solve. And solving interesting problems is fun!As a bit of a confession, I got lucky and didn’t have to create a polished portfolio before getting a design job at my current company. The process for me was much more informal since my manager already knew me and my work. But steps 1–4 were crucial for my understanding of design and how to create beautiful, intuitive products. I definitely would not have gotten that opportunity without a solid understanding of design principles gained through self teaching and practice.Now you are ready to become a designer in tech. Never stop learning and make sure to stay in tune with the latest design news. Even the most experienced designers are constantly refining their craft. Go get ‘em design tiger!Designer and developer in the technology industry. Accelerated Learning, Tech, Antifragility, and Definite Optimism

I’ve heard people wonder if we’re in a bubble with regard to startups. Is it as bad as the 2000 dot-com bubble? Might it actually be worse? I thought it would be worthwhile to look at the available data to see if we can figure this out with more than just a personal opinion. So I asked our engineering team at Google Ventures to dig into the bubble question and find out what the data say. In this post, I’ll share what I learned.Back in the late 1990s, venture capitalists got very excited about the Internet. A whole lot of money was poured into some companies that failed rather spectacularly, and a lot of people lost a lot of money.Fast forward to 2015. If you read While the data show that venture investing is increasing, they also illustrate four key differences from the dot-com bubble.During the 2000 bubble, many companies rushed to go public before they had any revenue. Today, companies are taking longer to IPO:In 2000, money flooded into venture capital, and VCs used that money to fund companies that might not otherwise “meet the bar” — resulting in some spectacular failures. Today, VC fundraising is on the uptick, but it’s still far below the 2000 level:In 2000, VCs made a record number of investments — over 2,000 that year alone. How does that compare to today? It may not feel like it, but the number of VC investments has actually been fairly flat since 2007. This suggests that VCs are still being selective:Venture capital investing shot up in 2013 and 2014, but it’s still far short of dot-com bubble levels:During the bubble in 2000, more VC dollars led to more investments. Today, VC investing is up, but the number of deals is flat. What’s going on? As we’ll see, investors are focusing their money on a relatively small number of large deals.Our data analysis reveals more than sunshine and lollipops. Here are six troubling signs that suggest we may be in another tech bubble.If you believe late-stage financing is replacing IPOs for fundraising, this might not be a worrisome sign. Still, it’s easy to see the similarity to 2000:Until now, our data have shown an environment that is milder than 2000. Today’s valuations tell a different story:Here’s another concerning chart:IPO valuations have increased across the board, but the most successful companies are going public at much higher valuations (or perhaps they’re just waiting longer).Both late-stage valuations and acquisition price tags are going up. Meanwhile, IPO valuations are going down. Late-stage financing and acquisitions are, in effect, replacing IPOs.The data indicate that IPO valuations are not growing as fast as late-stage private company valuations. In fact, if we look at the ratio of IPO valuation to late-stage valuation, we can see that this ratio has been declining since 2009. This suggests that late-stage investors might expect lower returns than in the past.When we look at the data, only one thing is clear: 2015 is really different from 2000. Some differences are reassuring (e.g. total number of VC investments staying flat), while others are disconcerting (e.g. skyrocketing valuations and declining exit return ratios).The data clearly show an increase in late-stage financing, but there are a couple ways to interpret this. One hypothesis is that plentiful late-stage financing from VCs and private-equity funds is causing companies to stay private instead of going public or being acquired. Another take is that technology has enabled companies to grow more quickly, and late-stage funding has risen to meet the needs of these young (but large) startups.The bottom line? If there is a bubble, it’s a different kind of bubble. And this makes sense, because the market and technology landscapes have changed dramatically in the last 15 years.Of course, companies will still fail, and with today’s huge valuations and the accompanying attention, those failures will seem even bigger and splashier. But that doesn’t mean the sky is falling. When one of these super-valued companies fails — which is inevitable — we’ll have to take a deep breath and ask ourselves whether it’s something endemic or just part of the normal failure rate. Perhaps we should look at the data before pressing the panic button.Thoughts from the Google Ventures team.

The miracle of the Internet getting older is that you get to dig up all sorts of embarrassing things about yourself. For example, this old answer of a younger me answering I’m shocked that this was just four years ago. The thing that strikes me is that my first course of action was to distill my experience into an easy chunk of data. I’ve thought about deleting this post because it makes me cringe, and people still seem to find it through the miracles of Quora’s whirring content robots. It makes me want to reach back in time and shake myself, tell myself what’s coming down the pike.It’s a fruitless exercise. Not only because I haven’t mastered time travel, but because I wouldn’t have believed me. Who wants to hear that their career path full of shinies and promises is systematically corrupt in the same boring way that all of America is systematically corrupt?So I’m posting an updated version of what it’s like to be a woman who happens to tech from time to time. No numbers, no nonsense. Well, a little nonsense: instead of posting random numbers, I’ve decided to make this both a rant and a game:It’s feeling guilty that work is not my whole life, and that I decidedly don’t want to ‘crush’ anyone or anything. It’s being called ‘sweetheart’ by a designer more senior than me. It’s picking outfits in the morning that don’t make me look fat and dumpy but also don’t make me look sexy. It’s talking about how much I love my boyfriend when I start to get the uh-oh feeling, and then making sure my engagement ring is very, very visible. It’s being told that as a matter of fact, I have the same level of experience as a guy who has a fifth of my experience. It’s eating with a room full of men talking about how thankful they are that their wives stay home and take care of the kids while they build the future. It’s sheer delight and surprise when a tech restroom has free tampons next to the free toothbrushes. It’s coming to work with horrible almost-vomit-painful cramps because I’m not dead, and I can’t afford to fall behind. It’s that baffled look in their eyes when I offer to change the CSS myself. It’s being asked in interviews when I last pulled an all-nighter. It’s everyone (including me) constantly referring to any group of humans as guys! guys! guys!But I am stubborn. I choose optimism. As Mr. Roger says, I look for the helpers.It’s also When I started my career, I wanted an honorable monolith. I am no longer sad that what I found was just a group of people. People can surprise you. They can hurt you and delight you.While the tech industry is made of people, people are not made solely of tech. A person has to exist outside of what they do. We cannot punish people for doing so, or pretend the industry is some safe haven from the rest of what’s happening out there. What’s happening out there is the same thing that’s happening inside our warm caffeinated bubble.In the past four years I have wanted to condemn the industry and burn it down like a good underwire bra. But the interesting problems keep drawing me back in. The good people who truly want to help draw me back in.Here’s what I hope happens next. I think it will get better. Through social dynamics and sheer will, racism/sexism/-ism will all become unpopular. I won’t have to actively look for the good. Instead, I’ll have to unearth the bad. The non-helpers will be even more underground than 4chan, than Weird Twitter. In some future, good will be something buttercream-rich that we skim off the surface.Published inPart wolf, angry American, designerd and writer. Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

— Latina tech leaderHistory has taught us that diversification efforts (ie: initiatives to correct systemic inequalities) unfold like this: White men “let” white women into the halls of power they created, and little changes for the rest of us. Such is the case in politics, in elite universities, and in corporate America.This pattern is currently repeating itself in tech, with Silicon Valley luminaries and media applauding “change” and pointing to a handful of highly successful white, well-networked women as the vanguards. As such, all women working in this field are expected to rejoice over Sheryl Sandberg and Marissa Mayer and take advice from them on how to replicate their success.But something that everyone paying attention to diversity in tech needs to understand is this: White women speaking for us as representatives of the “diversity in tech” movement must stop. White women are a small sliver of the available talent, but are currently used as the proxy for all diversity. What works for them is not what works for us.With the announcement of the Women of color already know that trying to conform to the mainstream is damn near impossible. And even if there are times that we can fake it (note: we shouldn’t have to), the emotional toll is enormous. If assimilation is the expectation, those of us who are non-white, older than 40, disabled, trans, not neurotypical, queer, from low-income backgrounds, and/or a host of other identities will continue to be locked out of tech.This is not to discount the fact that cis, straight white women face bias and discrimination in tech. But they are also the most palatable and least threatening to the mainstream as the face of tech diversity. And, like the first wave of feminism and affirmative action, they are often speaking for communities outside their own identities and experiences. The majority of people working inside tech companies on diversity and inclusion are white women, and all of us have experienced on more than one occasion the term “increased diversity” used synonymously with “more white women.”If you believe diversity to be a luxury, or something ancillary to your company/organization’s mission, you will miss the larger point. Diversity is critical to ensure technological innovations that solve real problems. The sector has already lost enormous amounts of talent by ignoring entire sectors of the population as potential innovators. The demographic shift in this country will render many tech companies irrelevant as they are unable to meet the needs of users.Know that “women in tech” is an insufficient phrase unless you are willing to expand that definition widely. Consistently ask When building groups or events for “women in tech,” be honest about the limitations of your network. If a “women in tech” event is going to be comprised of white women, be clear. And if calling an event “white women in tech” makes you uncomfortable, there is more work to do.Please stop using the phrase “women and people of color” to describe diversity efforts. Its use speaks volumes about the prevailing mindset around diversity. When women of color hear it, we know what we’re dealing with, as @aurabogado (Colorlines, The Nation) so aptly put it. It means that you do not recognize that some of us are both of these things, and will never separate them.If you work on “women in tech” events, organizations, etc and you do not know why a more diverse cross-section of women participate, find out why. It is likely that your organization/company’s reputation has been tarnished by bad experiences for participants. People outside tech’s mainstream talk to each other. We know which conferences and events are going to be inclusive and which are going to be painful.In addition, being an ally to people of color sometimes means stepping aside. If you are white and working on diversity and inclusion efforts, de-center yourself and your community. This means that you must be deliberate about making room for voices unlike your own. If you are invited to be on a panel, for example, suggest a person of color instead. Refuse to participate in public conversations that are only featuring white people. Give up the mic wherever possible. The Black Lives Matter movement has given us so much good language about de-centering as a necessary part of creating change. It is not a coincidence that this is largely led by queer, Black women.Do not fall into the “diversity of thought” trap. Having seen this at many companies, I am ready to declare it the ultimate cop-out on diversity efforts. Yes, diversity of thought exists. It exists any time two or more people are in a room together, but this is not sufficient to call out the real issue. Diversity of race, class, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, geography, physical abilities, will yield the widest range of “diversity of thought” possible.Recognize that effective programs for under-represented groups to participate in tech vary widely. What works for cis, white women is not likely to be effective beyond that narrow band.Understand the difference between efforts that aim to diversify the window dressing of a company vs. those that are truly upending the culture of tech itself. The former is a short-term band aid that does nothing to change the exclusive cultural practices of tech. The latter will actually bring about massive social change.Question the hell out of Founder, Vaya Consulting. VP, Social Impact @ GitHub. Purveyor of fine race/class analysis. And sometimes baseball.

As with so many other things, Google has shaped the way people view the tech industry’s pursuit of the future. But this model omits a lot of the improvable territory on the tech landscape. It leaves out all those problems that we don’t bother changing because we’ve stopped seeing them as solvable. We’ve accepted them as part of the way our flawed universe works, and don’t even think about what to do to relieve them. Or we just never saw them in the first place.These are the blind spots. And they are everywhere.For small fixes, we do spot tests until we get the little stuff optimized. For big breakthroughs, we send moonshots until we hit something big. But how do we correct for those blind spots? In hindsight, blind spots are thuddingly obvious. But once they emerge — and make us pay the price — they are, all too often, blinding.Shedding light on a blind spot can make fortunes and reshape the world. The hardest part can be convincing others who refuse to see. When Google began its life at Stanford in 1998, its founders had a hard time persuading the tech establishment that there was any need for its product — a better search tool dead center on an otherwise empty page. After all, we had AltaVista, Hotbot, Excite, Infoseek, Lycos, and more. The Web was infested with spiders! As CEO Larry Page put it to Steven Levy You’ll hear this same dismissal — “We took care of that already” — like a choral refrain in the early-day ballads of startup legend. It’s there in the sagas of Paypal and Facebook, Dropbox and Slack. None of these were “first movers”; they all entered markets that tech investors and pundits had declared sewn up.“I felt the problem had already been solved,” the designer Slack hired for its rollout So how do you see into such a blind spot? How can we periscope around the corner of our assumptions and peer into the future? If we want to create a list of the blind-spot problems that await better solutions from tomorrow’s innovators — which is what I want to do with this piece — where do we begin?The business world has its own set of tricks. You can drag a bunch of people into a focus-group room with a one-way see-through wall and watch them as they struggle with a problem or a product. You can conduct an “I’m just here from Mars” thought experiment and try to trick your brain into looking at our status-quo world with fresh, innocent eyes. You can take a page from the software world, with its “scratch your own itch” imperative, and scrutinize your own daily experience for evidence of blind-spot problems.Whatever you do, it’s tough to expose things that, by definition, you can’t see. They are, in Donald Rumsfeld’s infamous formulation, “So instead, I’m going to offer you my own brief list of exemplary blind-spot problems — dysfunctions of digital existence that we just take for granted. They feel immutable, and I’m quite sure they will continue that way — until someone comes along with an idea, a startup or a standard that makes us all say, in unison, “Of course!”Last month I charged a deposit on a summer-school abroad program for one of my sons. The next morning, someone in Scotland went on a shopping spree with my card number.Since 42 percent of Americans (as of 2012) have had their own credit-card fraud experiences, the odds are you already know just how much fun this is.But now I had to deal with the fallout. A new credit card number meant remembering the bevy of websites that use this number to charge me for their services, which I pay for because I need them. It meant digging up the username/password combinations I have on file — somewhere! — in order to update the information.This was painful. Also — I’m embarrassed to admit — it’s practically become a routine. I’ve had to repeat this dreadful ritual several times in the past few years. And each time I perform it, my snout is rubbed afresh in the mess of one of the Internet’s great unsolved problems.To wit: our digital world doesn’t have a good system for identifying us, or helping others confirm that we are who we say we are. Because no one has solved this problem, we all live in dune-drifts of lousy passwords. Email addresses — email addresses! — have become our de facto names. Password vaults can be a useful Bandaid, but the bleeding continues. Two-factor authentication, typically using login IDs and smartphones, provides additional safety at the price of additional pain.Someone is going to come along and figure this out. In my ideal world it would be a standard-based, open-source project, because identity is too critical to be owned by a corporation (and even Facebook doesn’t own it yet). But recent history suggests it might well be a company that comes out of nowhere with an in-retrospect-obvious new idea. And that company — the Google of identity — will be something to behold.If you work at a desk, odds are pretty good that your web browser has too many open tabs. I used to think this was just Responses to this problem have included the rise of “read it later” tools like Instapaper and Pocket; the development of better tools for managing tabs (The mobile universe sidesteps the whole issue completely, since so much reading gets done inside apps. So maybe the tab-overload condition will simply ameliorate over time. But I wouldn’t count on it. The field is way open for imaginative rethinking of tabs.If you want to collaborate with a partner on writing, revising, or editing a document today, you have way more choices than ever, and many offer neat features and twists, but none of them gives you a great tool’s shiver-of-delight. It’s a crime that Microsoft Word — with its impenetrably overloaded interface and its archaic file format — is still the fallback for so many organizations and businesses; Google Docs, with its recently added “suggested edits” mode, is much better — but it still comes with some frustrating limitations (it’s hard to combine or split multiple documents; it’s easy to lose things in your Google Drive). Medium is beautiful to look at but can be hard to use to organize lengthy complex edits. You can find great incremental innovations in new services like Amazingly, no one has yet assembled a complete environment in which two or more people can easily discuss, review, and approve changes to a document through an interface that doesn’t get in the way. On the one hand, I’m sure that the brains in startup-investor-land aren’t looking at the world of media, publishing and journalism and thinking, here’s a market we should jump into to make billions. On the other, the need for a great tool that people can use to edit documents together isn’t limited to professional writers. Somebody’s going to do this someday, and we will all look back and wonder how we lived without it.Maybe I just have bad consumer luck, but I have yet to buy a printer for home or home-office use that has not broken down in some significant way soon after I’ve taken it home. The printer market froze several years ago into two simple tiers: big, expensive laser printers for offices, and crappy inkjet printers for home use that are designed to make money on refills and that break when you touch them. (You can get decent black and white laser printers for home use but they won’t print your photos, except in arty monochrome.)It should be possible, in 2015, to spend a little more for a basic printer and get something that will survive to New Year’s Day. Breville is a kitchen-and-home gadget manufacturer that figured out people would pay more for a better toaster-oven. Where is the Breville of digital printing?The canonical advice in startup-land is to find problems to solve by locating “pain-points” in your own existence. You figure out how to scratch these personal itches; then, if you think your itch might be widely enough shared, you take your idea into the marketplace.Good advice in many ways! But the demographic makeup of the startup world being what it is, we have become very adept at scratching the itches of young, single geeks in places that closely resemble Silicon Valley —there are so many options for high-end food delivery and funding indie game projects! — and not so great at relieving the pains of the rest of the population.Large companies and nonprofits are more imaginative about trying to serve the needs of a more diverse base of users. But the tech industry still typically treats services for disabled people, seniors, minors, the undocumented and other underserved groups as “save for later” problems. Investors and entrepreneurs just assume that the operating-system vendors and standards bodies will take care of “accessibility” issues. They think these problems have been solved for them already.This might well be the biggest blind-spot problem of all. Of course, it’s not limited to the tech universe. But our nimble, agile, pivot-friendly industry could be leading the charge instead of hanging back with the crowd.This list is obviously personal, shaped by my work and experience. No matter what suggestions you make, there’s bound to be people who’ll protest, “That’s not a problem at all!” — as I’m sure some of you did while reading my ideas. As long as there’s also an occasional “You’re right — why didn’t I see that?”, it’s worth it.As Google proved, erasing a blind spot can be bigger than a moonshot. If my blind-spot model makes sense to you, I’d love to hear your nominations. Post a response here and if there are enough, I’ll follow up with a curated list.Let’s lift the blinds.Follow Backchannel: Covering the Web since 1994. Backchannel contributor. Blogging at Wordyard.com. “Say Everything.” “ Dreaming in Code.” Grist. Mediabugs. Salon. Berkeley, CA.Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

Skills gap: By 2020, there will be more than one million unfilled programming jobs. We need better tech education.Recruiters charge 20% — 25% of the recruit’s annual salary. Startups quickly hire in-house recruiters in an effort to save money.Due to talent shortage, tech salaries have grown quickly. Great for coders, but for startups, this cuts both ways. To attract new talent, we pay more money, but the growing trend in salary increases means that it’s easy for your competition to poach your best talent — just wait a year for the market to change enough  make an offer too good to refuse.This problem is easy to spot on Startups are miserable at interviewing candidates. To assess skills, founders rely on their existing engineers, but Instead of assessing a candidate’s abilities, engineers often pick stock puzzles (puzzle performance has zero correlation with job performance), whiteboard coding demonstrations (nobody codes on a whiteboard on the job), or CS101 algorithm tests (experienced devs forgot the useless crap they learned in CS101 years ago so they could remember all the algorithms and design patterns they actually use in real-life).None of those strategies work. They only make the interviewer feel superior, while the candidate struggles because none of those skills get practiced on the job. If a candidate aces those interviews, beware: They’re either fresh out of school with little job experienced, or they spent their time studying for coding interviews instead of actually coding and learning the real skills that are needed to write real apps.I kid you not, there are books dedicated to acing these useless interviews, and The best resumes are just a way to aggregate an overview and evidence of things the candidate See a pattern here? The best resumes are really a one paragraph summary of accomplishments and a collection of While we’re at it, most companies are also terrible at Compassionate entrepreneur on a mission to end homelessness. #jshomes Javascript, tech education, electronic music, photography, film, viral apps.To submit, tweet your proposal to 

A brief guide to tech leadership at Foursquare, inspired by Ben Horowitz’s Good tech leads act as a member of the team, and consider themselves successful when the team is successful. They take their share of unsexy grungy work and clear roadblocks so their team can operate at 100%. They work to broaden the technical capabilities of their team, making sure knowledge of critical systems is not concentrated in one or two minds.Bad tech leads take the high-profile tasks for themselves and are motivated by being able to take credit for doing the work. They optimize locally, keeping team members working on projects that benefit the team at the expense of the engineering organization at large.Good tech leads have an overall vision for the technical direction of the product and make sure the team understands it. They delegate feature areas to other team members and let them own their decisions. They recognize that their team members are smart, trust them, and rely on them to handle significant pieces of the project.Bad tech leads resist explaining or clarifying the technical direction and dictate decisions instead. They keep critical institutional knowledge in their heads, failing to multiply their effectiveness by creating and disseminating helpful documentation.Good tech leads listen and encourage debate. When the team is unable to resolve a debate, they describe a process or framework of thinking that would help them resolve it. They don’t enter discussions with foregone conclusions, and always allow themselves to be persuaded by great ideas.Bad tech leads allow debates to go on for too long without resolution, hampering the productivity of the team. Others cut off debate prematurely, dismissing new discussions by saying the matter is “already settled.” Bad tech leads believe it is more important that they win the argument than that the team reaches the right decision.Good tech leads are proactive. They make sure technical progress is on track. They work with team members to come up with estimates and to establish intermediate milestones. They anticipate areas of concern and make sure they are addressed before they become a problem. They identify technical roadblocks and help the team get around them. They identify areas of overlap where work can be shared, and conversely, find areas that are not getting enough attention and direct resources toward it.Bad tech leads are reactive. They may delegate, but do not follow up to make sure progress is being made. They don’t set intermediate goals and hope that everything just comes together in the end. They wait until just before launch to do end-to-end tests of complex systems. They allow team members to waste time on interesting but unimportant work.Good tech leads are pragmatic and find a balance between doing it right and getting it done. They cut corners when it’s expedient but never out of laziness. They encourage their team to find temporary shortcuts or workarounds to problems that are blocking overall progress, and to build minimum viable infrastructure for launch. To good tech leads, details matter. Code quality, code reviews, and testing are just as important as shipping on time.Bad tech leads take shortcuts that save time in the short term but cost more in the long term, and let technical debt pile up. They cannot distinguish between situations that call for expediency and those that call for perfection.Good tech leads know that their role is much more than writing code, that effective communication is a vital part of their job, and that time spent making their team more efficient is time well spent. They acknowledge that some communication overhead is necessary when working on a team, and they sacrifice some personal productivity for overall team productivity.Bad tech leads believe that they are most productive when they are writing code, and think communication is a distraction. They do not optimize for overall team productivity, but rather for what works best for themselves. They get frustrated when they have to take time to lead.Good tech leads are in a conversation with product managers and designers about how the product should work. They are not afraid to push back on decisions they disagree with, but keep the product goals in mind and know when to accommodate them. They find creative workarounds to technical constraints by suggesting alternative product formulations that are less technically demanding, and help PMs and designers understand technical challenges so that they make informed trade-offs themselves.Bad tech leads throw product decisions “over the wall” and do not take ownership of the product. They push back due to technical constraints but do not offer alternatives or explanations.Good tech leads are resilient to changes to the product specification and react calmly to surprises. They anticipate where changes might take place and design their code to handle them.Bad tech leads are upset when the specification changes, or prematurely generalize their design in areas where changes are unlikely to occur.Good tech leads are easy-going but assertive. Bad tech leads are confrontational and aggressive. Good tech leads emerge naturally and earn respect through technical competence and experience. Bad tech leads think their title confers respect and authority. Good tech leads are always looking for ways to improve.Bad tech leads get defensive when given feedback. Good tech leads are humble and boost the confidence of everyone else on the team. Bad tech leads are arrogant and take pleasure in making their teammates feel inferior.Foursquare is hiring! -It goes numbers  words  beats. Engineering director at Foursquare.Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

It’s becoming a common story we hear in passing or over drinks with industry friends. Every woman I personally know has either experienced it or knows someone who has. The responses to it can vary from a genuinely concerned, but poorly worded What is It is the discrimination and harassment that Women in Tech experience in the workplace.One of the most dangerous things about speaking up about harassment and discrimination in the workplace is falling out of favor with our peers. In Speaking up internally is scary. But you don’t even have to raise concerns around sexism Vocal women are often labeled complainers. And it’s scarily common to have coworkers and even managers accuse you of doing diversity work as a means to gain power. Not comfortably being able to bring up concerns in your workplace and have those concerns addressed in a way you feel is productive and fair can take a huge toll on you emotionally andWhen you become that woman, the complainer, the social justice warrior, people start taking your actual work, you know, the job you get At this point it rarely seems like you have any option other than to leave and start over someplace new.So what happens when you want to leave? Well, friends, if you’re a white dude? Typically, nothing. You say your peace, do your exit interview, and make your way on to your next venture, all bridges still standing.If you’re a woman? If you’re someone who has filed as few as one complaint with HR?I have several friends who are Women in Tech who have signed Not all of us can say no to the money that often comes with a non-disparagement agreement. And in my opinion, there is absolutely no shame in taking it. None.As a result of my experience being When women ask me whether or not they should take their stories public, like I did, I mostly advise against it. Sure, sometimes it feels right, like it’s the only thing you can do to protect yourself. It may change the way people look at the company where you experienced harassment, but it won’t get you justice. It may stop the same thing from happening to the next woman who joins said company, but it won’t help you heal.What I tell women who come to me for strategic advice that the best thing they can do is to take care of themselves first. I honestly don’t know if I would.Shortly after I began receiving rape threats in 2014, I was diagnosed with PTSD. I could no longer be intimate with my partner. I had repeated episodes that left me laying on the floor clutching my chest because I felt like I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t sleep. I couldn’t eat. And I wanted to die.I couldn’t imagine life ever being OK again.And so, at the request of my friends and my family, I chose to move on. To start fresh. Much, I’m sure, to the relief of my harassers and the people who victimized me the same.It takes a much stronger person than I am to seek justice. It takes someone who, in a moment of incredible pain and uncertainty, can see a clear path to it. It takes a stronger person than I’ve This is what left me in awe of My motive for writing this piece is not purely to share my own or others’ experiences with you. I wrote this piece for two very specific reasons:In her own words:Designer who codes. Friendly neighborhood Feminist.We publish informed perspectives on fringe topics and add outside narratives to perennial stories — voices worth hearing. Pitches: j.mp/pitch-absurdist

I feel bad for the “techies.” I’m not talking about the ones like Jack Halprin, the Google lawyer who tried to evict seven units, comprised mostly of teachers, so that he could have his own mansion. And I’m not talking about the venture capitalists using their money and influence to try and create a San Francisco in their own image. Those people are wankers.I feel bad for the thousands of people who have been lucky enough to get a job that pays them to move to one of the most wonderful cities in the world. These are not the millionaire CEOs of tech giants, these are the people who work for them. And most of them have gotten in far too late to be part of that big “getting acquired/going public” pay day. Or they’ve come to San Francisco with an idea they really think might change the world. Who says no to an opportunity like that?So, why do I feel bad for them? Because they’ve never been given the chance to be San Franciscans … and most of them don’t even know it.It must be a hell of a thing to move somewhere for a job and be told that you are the cause of most of that city’s problems. What somehow gets lost in all the finger-pointing and hand-wringing is that the bad guys in this housing crisis aren’t the people looking for a place to live. The real villains are the particularly rapacious real estate developers, landlords*, brokers and speculators making monumental fortunes, and the politicians who are in their pockets. The smartest thing these devils ever did was allow the general public to blame The City’s newest transplants for the mess their greed fed upon. It’s easy to blame your new neighbor for moving in when you can’t see the landlord who evicted your previous one.But that’s not the only reason the “techies” haven’t been given the chance to be San Franciscans. The entire startup culture has knowingly or unknowingly created an insular society apart. We live in the streets in San Francisco. We don’t sit in our cars all day commuting to work, we bike or walk or take mass transit. We explore local restaurants and get to know neighborhood shop owners. We become part of this city by drowning ourselves in it.That all changes when you take private transportation to work, where they feed you so you don’t have to leave, and they clothe you so you can be their billboards. And then after working ridiculous hours the culture justifies pithily as #StartUpLife, it’s easy to opt out of San Francisco once again by just using an app to order anything else not provided for you.So I want to get this message out there to all the “techies:” It’s time to become San Franciscans. If you’re gonna be here, BE here. I’m tired of all this you/we bullshit that I just did in the previous two paragraphs. What I’m inviting “you” to do, is to become part of the “we.”San Francisco is on the precipice of losing its soul, and if you’re tired of being blamed as the problem, come be part of the solution. There’s a movement fulminating right now that’s centered around issues like ending evictions, building affordable housing, tackling homelessness, and keeping the arts in The City. And I’m asking YOU to be part of it.Register to vote, get involved in progressive politics, and start caring about San Francisco, not just the tech scene in San Francisco. If you truly want to be here, then we want you here too. If you want to get involved, here are a few things you can do to help:1. Check out 2. 3. Follow 4. Join a Democratic Club or at least follow some on FB. That way you can can stay informed on all the issues and share things with your friends. Here are some really great clubs doing excellent work for the progressive causes in SF:Movements need 3 things: your time, your money, and your sharing of information. So please, get involved, donate and spread the word. Let’s keep this city weird and wonderful.Thank you.*Please note: when I talk about landlords in this article I’m not talking about ALL landlords. I’m talking about the ones who are doing all they can to get rid of their long term tenants.You can also find me on TV Host. Travel Writer. Poet. Motherfucking HustlerHere there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.

My background is in business and apart from being intellectually curious and interested in technology, I have no previous programming, database or web design experience. Like most non-techies, I have lots of ideas (of varying quality), but lacked the technical know-how to execute and develop a minimum viable product (MVP) without outsourcing the technology.As a non-technical founder, you can easily persuade yourself that your knowledge is the core product and technology is only a vehicle, and thus can be outsourced. Unfortunately, this reasoning will more often than not create an undesired outcome — months of interviewing software development houses, lots of paperwork, high costs, undiversifiable risk, unforeseen delays and quality control issues, and a working relationship where you are dependent on the availability and goodwill of your developer until you find someone else to takeover. And in the end, you may end up with nothing or a product that’s not what you envisioned, and as you failed as a result of your reliance on others, and not on your own accord, it makes it even worse.In September 2014, I decided to teach myself Ruby on Rails and create a web application. I had a simple idea, to map out the entire Israeli funding ecosystem to help startups find potential funding and promote the Startup Nation. I focused on three things:I created a spreadsheet and designed the schema: column headings (e.g. name, location, investment stage) and attributes (e.g. seed, early stage). I then began to curate the data and populate the spreadsheet, constantly refining the schema to keep it minimal and relevant. By the end of September, I had curated data for 250+ companies. I had intentionally begun with the data instead of learning how to code primarily because that way if I failed to build the app, I could at least open source the spreadsheet and provide a meaningful contribution to the startup community.Now, it was time to learn how to code.I spent a weekend going through Codecademy’s I began to familiarise myself with the There are several articles and in-depth forum posts that discuss which programming language you should learn and why. Unfortunately, I can’t tell you which language to learn, except that it probably doesn’t matter. If you choose to learn PHP or Ruby, that’s fine, or if you want to learn Swift or Objective-C to create iPhone apps, that’s fine too. Don’t spend time trying to find the optimal language for your project as most languages will do. Instead, focus on what you want to build in order to narrow down your options, review the syntax, read some material and start learning the language that resonates most with you. My only suggestion is that you select a language that has a sizeable online community and robust learning material. If you have a developer friend, seek their advice and listen.I chose Ruby and spent a few days learning on Codecademy. These I found this to be the hardest step; it took several attempts over a weekend to get it right. I recommend you backup your hard drive as you might unintentionally remove system files or mess something up when installing the technologies you need for your project. I also suggest you install You’ll also need to download a code editor. Choose the tool your friend uses or pick the editor you prefer.After I set up my coding environment, I spent the next few days on the The objective is similar to the other tutorials — focus on application and understanding, not on memorising syntax. Consider if you created any functionality during the tutorial that you can use for your project. It’s also important that you accept that it will take time before you understand what you’re doing during these tutorials. Just go with the flow and embrace uncertainty. Don’t get discouraged and give up.At this point, you’ve learned the basics: HTML, CSS and the language of your choice. You will also have familiarised yourself with the command line interface and set up your coding environment.In October, I started working on 972VC by myself after I had completed the above tutorials and by the end of November, the app was During the first few days of development, I was unable to perform even the most basic tasks; in fact, I ended up spending more time on Google than coding. The same will happen to you, which is why you shouldn’t spend your time memorising syntax. Learn how to search effectively and be resourceful as this will be your most important skill.You’re at a distinct advantage compared to an experienced developer. Since you have no coding knowledge or experience, you will need to strip your app idea down to its bare necessities. Focus on the core of your product and simplify wherever possible.Don’t rely on others to develop your app for you.You need to be persistent and tenacious. If you’re a non-techie, learning to code requires a different mindset than you’re used to, so of course it will be difficult. But by tinkering with a problem for several hours, you will gradually start to understand how everything (sort of) works. This will be the most valuable lesson during development. As your learning progresses, you will no longer be content with the first solution you find — you will start to look for better ways to solve your coding problems.At a basic level, you can think of coding as an interactive jigsaw puzzle. Break your idea down into smaller manageable pieces that can be put together to build the app.Don’t spend weeks or months ploughing through books, tutorials and screencasts. Instead, focus on understanding the programming language and the developer mindset, and learn by doing. This is why it’s important that from the start you have a clear idea of what you want to build. Use tutorials, blogs and other resources when you need to learn how to do something specific. And be sure to check out and learn from open source projects as well.Open source can be the most wonderful discovery for non-techies learning to code as the functionality you seek has probably been open sourced so you don’t need to reinvent the wheel. If you need a content management system, you can find robust open source software that is freely available.Consequently, you will often be engaged in a ‘dirty hands approach’ to learning: you’ll find code that solves your problem, try and get it to work in your app, and then take it apart, ask questions, and modify the code to your purpose.Try to work on your app on a daily basis, even if it’s only for a few minutes, especially in the beginning of your project as it’s important to become comfortable with your coding environment. Don’t worry about best practices and conventions. In the beginning that’s just noise, but you’ll want to learn those principles as you progress.I’d also suggest that you deploy your app on Heroku, AWS or another hosting service as soon as possible in order to avoid future issues. Deploying frequently will save you time when you’re finally prepared to launch your app.Be prepared to learn multiple technologies as it will (probably) not be enough to learn only a programming language in order to build your app. You might end up using technologies such as Git, Heroku, JavaScript and PostgreSQL.Learning how to code is hard and it’s even harder if you’re doing it by yourself. Therefore, you need to consider each step forward, regardless of how small, as a legitimate success.By following the steps above and adapting them to fit your needs, you may end up building a simple application over a few months. But, more importantly, you’ll have empowered yourself, and become a more valuable member in your workplace. You’re no longer the clueless non-technical founder or team member, but someone who understands code at a basic level and can communicate with developers and web designers. You’ll also have the ability to execute your own ideas without spending large sums on outsourcing. In the case of 972VC, the total cost to build and launch the app was And if you decide to take your MVP and go big (i.e., the do-it-yourself approach), you’ll learn all the different roles of a startup: how to incorporate a company, accounting, sales and marketing, engineering, UX/UI design, product management, business development and administration.Since I launched If you’re part of the Startup Nation funding ecosystem and not on 972VC, I’ve compiled a list of resources to further help you on your journey to learn how to code and build your app. These are resources I either used or came across in building my app, and ultimately made 972VC possible. I hope they will be of equal benefit to you.-Former IDF Lone Soldier  Economic Affairs Officer, Embassy of Israel. Creator of 972VC and Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

Startups focus on speed since they are burning cash every day as they search for product/market fit. But over time code/hardware written/built to validate hypotheses and find early customers can become unwieldy, difficult to maintain and incapable of scaling. These shortcuts add up and become what is called You fix technical debt by While technical debt is an understood problem, it turns out startups also accrue another kind of debt — one that can kill the company even quicker — Just when things should be going great, organizational debt can turn a growing company into a chaotic nightmare.Growing companies need to understand how to recognize and “refactor” organizational debt.I had lunch last week with Tom, the CEO of a startup that was quickly becoming a large company — last year’s revenue was $40M, this year likely to be $80M maybe even $100 million in ad revenue. They had reinvented a traditional print media category onto web and mobile devices for a new generation of users who were no longer buying magazines but reading online. Their content was topical, targeted and refreshed daily. Equally important their VP of Marketing had brilliantly executed a stream of social media campaigns (Facebook likes and partnerships, email campaigns, etc.) to drive traffic to their site, which they then turned into ad revenue.Tom was excited about their next big round of funding that valued them at almost ½ a billion dollars. He talked about how they were trying to maintain their exponential growth and told me how many people they were adding, and the issues of scaling that rapidly. (They had doubled headcount from 100 to 200 in the last year and were planning to double again.) While he kept bringing the conversation back to their big valuation I tried to steer the conversation back to how they were going to deal with:His answer centered on the great location of the new building, what great furniture they were getting, and the compensation plans for the key members of the executive staff.This didn’t feel good.While the strategy sounded like a great long-term plan, I poked a bit and asked, “So what’s the training and onboarding plan for the new hires? What are you doing about the pay scales at the bottom of the organization? Aren’t you concerned about losing qualified people that the company spent the last few years training but never compensated adequately?” I got answers that sounded like the Tom’s — new stock grants for the executive staff, great new building, and oh, by the way, Tom and his co-founder got to sell some stock in the new round. And let me tell you about the vision and strategy again.As Phillipe kept talking I listened but not really, because I started realizing that while he was a genius in finding and nurturing great early-stage deals, and had a vision that sounded great for the new investors, he didn’t have a clue about how to actually scale a company. He had never run one, and worse, had never been on a board of a startup making the transition from searching for a business model and product/market fit, to the next phase of “building” the infrastructure to support scale.Unless they were planning to flip this company, organizational debt was going to hit faster than they could imagine. They needed a plan to “refactor” organizational debt. And Tom wasn’t going to get it from his board.Surprisingly, given the tidal wave of new hires, formal training and job descriptions were still stuck in the early stage, “we’re too small to need that” mindset. The reality was that with hundreds of new employees coming on board the company desperately needed a formal onboarding process for new employees; first, to get them assimilated to the company culture and second, a formal process to train them in how to do their specific jobs. Unfortunately the people who could best train them were the underpaid employees who were now out looking for new jobs.Organizational debt was coming due.I suggested there were seven things he could do — some quickly, some over time:Some of the harder suggestions had to do with the organization as whole:Customer Development  Secret History, Teaching at Stanford, Berkeley and ColumbiaAccelerated Learning, Tech, Antifragility, and Definite Optimism

The nurses and doctors summoned to the hospital room of 16-year-old Pablo Garcia early on the morning of July 27, 2013, knew something was terribly wrong. Just past midnight, Pablo had complained of numbness and tingling all over his body. Two hours later, the tingling had grown worse.Although Pablo had a dangerous illness—a rare genetic disease called NEMO syndrome that leads to a lifetime of frequent infections and bowel inflammation—his admission to the University of California, San Francisco Medical Center’s Benioff Children’s Hospital had been for a routine colonoscopy, to evaluate a polyp and an area of intestinal narrowing.At 9 o’clock that night, Pablo took all his evening medications, including steroids to tamp down his dysfunctional immune system and antibiotics to stave off infections. When he started complaining of the tingling, Brooke Levitt, his nurse for the night, wondered whether his symptoms had something to do with GoLYTELY, the nasty bowel-cleansing solution he had been gulping down all evening to prepare for the procedure. Or perhaps he was reacting to the antinausea pills he had taken to keep the GoLYTELY down.Levitt’s supervising nurse was stumped, too, so they summoned the chief resident in pediatrics, who was on call that nightAt first, he was perplexed. But then he noticed something that stopped him cold. Six hours earlier, Levitt had given the patient not one Septra pill—a tried-and-true antibiotic used principally for urinary and skin infections — but 38½ of them.Levitt recalls that moment as the worst of her life. “Wait, look at this Septra dose,” the resident said to her. “This is a huge dose. Oh my God, did you “Oh my God,” she said. “I did.”The doctor picked up the phone and called San Francisco’s poison control center. No one at the center had ever heard of an accidental overdose this large—for Septra or any other antibiotic, for that matter—and nothing close had ever been reported in the medical literature. The toxicology expert there told the panicked clinicians that there wasn’t much they could do other than monitor the patient closely.As a precaution, the hospital’s rapid response team was summoned to the room. Pablo’s mother, Blanca, who had been with her younger son, hospitalized one floor up at UCSF for a severe skin infection (he, too, suffers from NEMO syndrome), began a vigil by Pablo’s bedside. “I phoned my sister, and we prayed together,” she later recalled.At 5:32 a.m., Brooke Levitt heard a scream coming from Pablo’s room. It was Blanca Garcia. A few seconds earlier, her son had sat bolt upright in bed, yelled out “Mom!” then flopped backward. Levitt sprinted to the room, and when she got there, Pablo’s head was snapping back and forth, teeth clenched, back arched, extremities thrashing. He was having a grand mal seizure. Moments later, just as the Code Blue team arrived, the teenager stopped breathing.“I thought, what if I killed him?” Levitt told me months later, wiping away tears. “If he had a seizure, I’m wondering if that’s going to be the end of it. . . I’m trying to hold it together, but I’m in shock the whole time. I just felt immensely guilty.”The night that Pablo Garcia was given a 39-fold overdose of a routine antibiotic offers a cautionary tale that cannot be ignored.To appreciate how one of the nation’s best hospitals—Pablo Garcia had been taking one double-strength Septra tablet twice a day at home to prevent his frequent skin infections. In the old paper-based medication ordering system, the admitting doctor would have written “Septra 1 ds bid” (using the Latin abbreviation for “twice a day”) in the “Doctors’ Orders” section of a paper chart, a stack of sheets contained within a plastic three-ring binder.The physician would have turned a colored wheel on the side of the binder to green, signaling to the ward clerk that there was an order to be “taken off.” The clerk would then have faxed the order sheet to the pharmacy, where a pharmacist would have read it, signified his approval by initialing the page, and handed the copy to a technician, who would have grabbed a big bottle of Septra pills from a shelf. The tech would then have poured out the pill, or perhaps a few days’ worth of pills, and put them in a bag or cup, which would have then been delivered to the patient’s floor by a runner or a pneumatic tube system.Once the pills arrived on the floor, at the appropriate time the patient’s nurse would have read the order (manually transcribed from the doctor’s order sheet to the nurse’s Medication Administration Record) and entered the teenager’s room pushing a wheeled cart similar to the ones used by airline flight attendants. After opening the patient’s drawer in the cart, the nurse would have removed the medication, and others due to be given at the same time, watched the patient take the pill, and placed her signature next to the time and dose on her record.Believe it or not, I’ve shortened this description — time and motion studies have identified as many as 50 steps between the moment the doctor wrote the order and the moment the nurse finally administered the medication. But even in simplified form, you can see why the old system was hugely error-prone. A Those of us who worked in this Rube Goldberg system — and witnessed the harms it caused — anxiously awaited the arrival of computers to plug its leaks. Computerized ordering would make a doctor’s handwriting as irrelevant as scratches on a record album. Computerized decision support would alert the doctor or pharmacist that the patient was allergic to the medication being ordered, or that two medications might interact dangerously. A pharmacy robot could ensure that the right medication was pulled off the shelf, and that the dose was measured with a jeweler’s precision. And a bar-coding system would render the final leg in this relay race flawless, since it would signal the nurse if she had grabbed the wrong medication or was in the wrong patient’s room.Of course, it was natural for doctors, nurses and pharmacists to expect that, once computers entered our complex, chaotic and often dangerous world, they would make things better. After all, in our off-duty lives we are so thoroughly used to taking out our iPhones, downloading an app, and off we go.Though computers can and do improve patient safety in many ways, the case of Pablo Garcia vividly illustrates that, even in one of the world’s best hospitals, filled with well-trained, careful and caring doctors, nurses and pharmacists, technology can cause breathtaking errors.This one began when a young physician went to an electronic health record and set a process in motion that never could have happened in the age of paper.At around noon on a cool July day in San Francisco, Jenny Lucca, a pediatrics resident at UCSF, began the process of admitting Pablo Garcia, whose rare genetic disease had led to bouts of gastrointestinal bleeding and abdominal pain. He needed further evaluation with an elective colonoscopy, and this was a scheduled admission to perform the test and act on its results.After speaking to Pablo and his mother and examining the young patient, Lucca clicked into the physicians’ orders section in the electronic health record. Pablo was on about 15 different medications. Lucca ordered his usual immunosuppressive pills, the liquid bowel-cleansing prep for the colonoscopy (the famously vile GoLYTELY) and his monthly infusion of immunoglobulins.Then she came to the Septra, an antibiotic that the teenager had been taking for years to prevent recurrent skin and lung infections. The usual dose of Septra for all but the smallest children is one double-strength pill twice daily, and that is what Pablo was taking at home.In the precomputer days, of course, Lucca would have written simply to continue the Septra, twice daily, on the physician’s order sheet.But UCSF Medical Center, where I work as a physician, had not relied on paper for years. It had been over a decade since doctors and nurses wrote their daily notes on paper, and all of the orders had been electronic for nearly two years. Lucca, as a young physician, had never experienced a medical profession built on a backbone of paper documentation. She was of a generation of digital natives, for whom the use of the computer was natural and expected. After arriving in San Francisco, Lucca took the required 10 hours of computer training, and UCSF’s system, built by Epic of Verona, Wisconsin—the same one she had used in medical school — made the learning curve far less steep than it might have been.The medical center installed its first hospital-wide computer system in 2000. We switched to Epic, the market leader, in 2012 after an unhappy decade with General Electric’s problem-ridden EHR system. Our implementation of Epic, like all such implementations, had its share of hiccups. Some departments didn’t send out bills for weeks, some medications and lab tests were overlooked, and a few patients fell off the hospital’s radar screen for brief periods. Like new homeowners, the IT department had a “punch list” of hundreds of items to be fixed or modified, and they spent much of the first year after implementation methodically going through it, checking off items.But now, on the date of Pablo Garcia’s admission, 13 months after UCSF’s Epic installation, the system was running smoothly. And there was good evidence that it was meeting its goals: doctors’ and nurses’ notes were now legible; thousands of medication errors had been intercepted by the bar-coding system; and computerized checklists guided the clinicians through some key safety practices like identifying the correct surgical site before the first incision. Moreover, about 50,000 patients had signed up to access a new electronic portal called MyChart, which allowed them to receive results of lab tests and x-rays, schedule appointments, refill their medications, and e-mail their physicians. Although there were grumbles here and there, the general feeling was that the electronic health record was making patient care safer and better.Yet a series of dangers lurked beneath the placid surface. Installing a system like Epic is not like installing an operating system on your laptop, where you just “Accept the Terms,” reboot the machine and off you go. Instead, while the electronic health record provides the scaffolding, there are hundreds of decisions that each hospital needs to make, many of them related to electronic prescribing.For example, should there be maximum dose limits set in the system, so that doses several times higher than the published maximum are grayed out? UCSF decided not to set such limits. The reasoning at the time was that, in a teaching hospital with lots of patients with rare diseases, many of them on research protocols, such “overdoses” would usually be okay. A system with hundreds of “hard stops” would lead to many angry phone calls from frustrated doctors to pharmacists, demanding that they override the block.When it came to pediatric patients, a second set of decisions had to be made concerning weight-based dosing. Since pediatric patients can range from a preemie weighing a couple of pounds to a morbidly obese adolescent, many pediatric medications are dosed based on weight, usually expressed in milligrams (of a medication) per kilogram (of body weight)(mg/kg). The committee overseeing our Epic implementation decided to require weight-based dosing for all children under 40 kilograms (about 88 pounds).Another choice involved the translation of weight-based doses into pills. What if the computer calculated that a dose should be 120 mg (based on the child’s weight), but the only available pill was 100 mg? The decision: if the available medication was more than 5 percent off the calculated “correct” dose, then the pharmacist would contact the doctor to be sure she endorsed that conversion. After all, there might be cases in which a 10 or 20 percent disparity would be clinically meaningful and the doctor might rethink the order.The weight-based dosing policy forced Lucca to order Pablo Garcia’s medication in milligrams per kilogram, since the youngster weighed less than 40 kilograms (38.6 to be exact, or about 85 pounds). When she typed “Septra” into Epic’s order entry module, she was prompted to select one of two dose choices, and she correctly chose the larger (“double-strength”) one, which contains 5 mg/kg of trimethoprim, one of the two active ingredients in Septra.Because Pablo weighed 38.6 kilogram, the computer multiplied this weight by the 5 mg/kg and determined that the dose should be 193 mg.Of course, there is no 193 mg Septra pill; the nearest tablet size is the 160 mg double-strength Septra pill. The computer recommended that the dose be rounded to a single tablet (a 17 percent decrease from 193, well above the 5 percent threshold), and asked Lucca if she accepted this recommendation.She clicked “Yes.” In doing so, she believed she had ordered the one double-strength Septra tablet that Pablo had been taking at home, which was precisely what she had intended to do all along. All would have been well — had she been right. But she wasn’t.Illustrated by UCSF MD/writer/blogger/speaker...Analyzing healthcare in lively, iconoclastic,  humorous ways. New book: The Digital Doctor: Hope, Hype, and Harm…now availableMining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

Thought Leadership — Failing fast, where failing is 3 weeks worth of work (so you…gave up?) — Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: Accelerated Learning, Tech, Antifragility, and Definite Optimism

Since I have no inside knowledge of how Ms. Swift actually runs her social media — though I assume it is a few people on staff who do that for her, (and they are beyond excellent at their jobs) — for the purpose of this article I will attribute all to Taylor Swift directly. The reader should bear in mind that it refers to the entire Taylor Swift social media and marketing group. Another more salient point is that I do not know Taylor Swift, have never been to a concert of hers, (though I do like Over the past few months while being involved in a myriad of technology projects, I must admit to a certain growing fascination in following stories about Taylor Swift. It began when I observed on the sidelines how deftly she and her social media machine slowly built up the hype over the release of her new album, What left me in awe was that none of this stopped with the release of the album. Taylor Swift did not vanish from the public eye for a well-deserved rest. She continued to appear in the press in various seemingly non-related music endeavors, all which brought her name, respectability and professionalism to higher levels. I began to realize I was watching technology and marketing reach a highly sophisticated realm — and it was done in actual good taste, positive reinforcement and by applying the most important rules of marketing and technology to the Taylor Swift “brand.” She may be all of 25, (I have children older than she is), but Taylor Swift is an example par-excellence of how the correct marriage of modern social networking, technology and marketing can bring success to a brand.Those involved in technology, SEO, customer retention, marketing, public relations, and even big data analysis should take heed of the Taylor Swift Social Media Machine. It is truly a work of art. Here are eight lessons I have learned from it in the past few months.There are many other fan stories, some of which are probably myth, some which are truly to be believed. The fact remains is that Taylor Swift pays attention to her customer base, i.e. her fans. She shows them that she cares. She shows them that she is involved. A lesson all companies should learn about customer satisfaction.This is what is known as “disruptive.” You take a previously accepted way of doing things and disrupt it in order to change it. By doing so, preconceived notions are destroyed and an entirely new method of doing something appears. Uber did it with transportation and by having enough cash to bully the competition. Taylor Swift managed to do it in one well-written letter. She disrupted a major force in her industry. She managed to break the rules, disrupt the preconceived notion which Apple had dictated, and caused a total turnaround. What makes it so inspiring is that she accomplished all this with class and with respect. She did not enrage whole countries and classes of workers as Uber did. Maybe even Uber could learn a thing or two from the manner in which Swift became a disruptive force.This “outside of the box” thinking and activity is exactly what technologists and marketers need to understand and incorporate into their work. The system is there, but the true value can only be realized when one applies solutions and ideas which are not generally used nor even thought about. Do not concentrate on one path, but at every juncture realize there are many paths to pursue and pursue all of them. Remain accessible, even if it requires a larger staff. Never distance yourself from customers, even irate ones. Listen to them. Think out of the box and don’t work according to a pre-conceived script.When Ms. Swift answered the internet troll, (mentioned above), and when she published her open letter to Apple, one can see a very subtle mechanism at work. She is actually showing her young fans how to communicate feelings. I don’t think the importance of this can be over-emphasized in a world full of ADD and communication in photos. Taylor Swift actually is teaching her fans that communication with words and sentences is a good thing. She is also showing that one does not have to be degrading and insolent to make a point and be heard. Imagine a whole generation of very young fans who may just learn that real communication is not yet dead. Words do mean something and using them in a correct manner can accomplish wonders. Millennials take notice!It is not only what we are trying to sell, and whom we reach through our data mining and analysis, but it is also how we sell it. Many times it is just price. Many times it is name branding. Yet our ideal is to reach a point where what we sell is intertwined with the reputation of the company or person selling it. Fierce loyalty is created in that manner. Words and expression with or without photos, emojis and Gifs are still critical.This too is a lesson for all marketers. It is not all about the sales or real time data analytics. Sometimes it is about forcing others to bend the rules. Customer retention is creating loyalty. Loyalty is given when respect is earned.Of course it can be argued, that due to her fame and fortune, anything Ms. Swift does will immediately go viral. It truly makes no difference as to the nature of the act nor its significance — all that matters is Taylor Swift did it. This does guarantee viral spread, and there is no need to apply Chaos Theory, the Butterfly Effect or the Genesis Seed into such a formula. However, while viral spread is guaranteed, the nature of what Ms. Swift chooses to champion is not. It is that choice of acts and decisions which define her. Here, she has exhibited an uncanny ability to consistently find the right Genesis Seed. Viral spread is inevitable once she makes a statement, but reaction to that viral spread is not predictable.Anyone dealing in Big Data Analysis or Marketing should study this closely. While working on well-known brands we are often lulled into complacency, knowing that anything done will be viral in one way or another. What the Taylor Swift Social Media Machine teaches us is that in all cases, whether dealing with a known brand name or not, the Genesis Seed which begins the entire process must be chosen with care. Big Data must be mined and analyzed constantly seeking a point which can be fully optimized in order to produce the desired results. One mistake, one misjudgment, can create a nightmare viral spread of all the wrong information with all the wrong impressions. We have seen this happen all too often in modern technology. Look no further than at the current Reddit nightmare as a perfect example.She shows she understands her fans and expresses herself in positive ways. She seems to know their language and how to speak to their minds and hearts. As she said:Marketing is about understanding your customers. Marketing is about knowing what they want and how to offer it to them. Taylor Swift understands her music is a medium. She is keenly aware that she must sell that music and it is the music that capitulated her to fame. She is also aware that her fans are purchasing a part of Taylor Swift as well. She makes music the center of the universe, yet while speaking to twenty thousand fans at once she makes each one feel as if she is talking privately to them. This is the magic of turning a public message into something which is personal for the millions of people who hear it.It is clear Stewart is not someone to ignore, but then again, neither is Taylor Swift. And in all probability the Swift entourage was warned there would be a tweet in their direction. Yet still, Taylor Swift reacted immediately (see the time stamps), showing that uncanny ability to be able to mark the critical and important things. Take a close look at her wording as well. She first thanks them. Then she turns it around and says Loyalty and respect go a long way in marketing. Which is what every marketing strategy should strive for. Taylor Swift can teach us technologists and marketing professionals a thing or two about how to really create a “brand” and retain customer loyalty. Maybe it is time for companies — from the huge conglomerates to the corner stores — to learn a few lessons from the Taylor Swift playbook. Taylor Swift has shown us how to market, endear a product to consumers, brand her name in the most positive of ways, and listen carefully to her fans. Read: customers.I am sure not everything is pristine and pure in the world of Taylor Swift. I am not anywhere near idolizing her, nor do I believe that everything in her life and personality is perfect. Yet she has managed to create a persona to be emulated. The biggest compliment I can give anyone goes to Taylor Swift. I have grown to respect her. I am a devoted fan.Actually, Taylor Swift, may be the real thing. And that is rare in our world. Very rare, indeed.— — —About the Author: Ted Gross Works In  Writes About Technology. Published Author Of Literary Fiction. Still Dares To Dream.An ear for the new, a heart for the classics.

“What is your favorite texture?” This was the question posed during my first New Hire Chai Time at Airbnb, by a wonderful Greek man named At college I’m recognized in part by my love of fashion and clothing. I frequently compliment my friends on overly specific parts of their outfits, and have developed an unhealthy relationship with an old polish tailor on campus. But, things didn’t start this way. Two years earlier I had entered freshman year of college, having never given attention to how I dressed — ill fitting GAP jeans and Quicksilver hoodies were fine. My girlfriend at the time tried to convince me of the artistic merit of a $1,000 pair of shoes, but middle-class-Reno-public-high-school me didn’t buy it.The next year I bought it. Not $1,000 shoes, but the concept. Feeling down about a breakup and hungry for some self improvement, I set aside a paycheck from my summer internship. Using this money I would find the perfect suit and wear it to work each and every day the following summer. After months of looking quizzically at GQ magazines, trying on over priced garments, and speaking to over 5 tailors, I acquired a broad lapel grey suit and a slim navy suit. They were my pride and joy, and I’d fight to the death anyone who’d ever spill coffee on them.People thought my plan was a bad idea. When I told my computer science friends of my plan to wear a suit every day, they laughed and shook their heads. Why the hell would I do that? Silicon Valley is about individuality and programmatic rebellion against the man, so wear your shorts and slim-fit American Apparel T-shirt goddammit. At the time I paused to consider if I would be better off in New York.Google searches aren’t very supportive either. The CEO of Wealthfront recently posted on Quora:What happens if you break the programmer mold in one of the most casual professional environments in the world? As I discovered, people single you out. They smile when the quirky and brilliant hacker wears pajamas and rollerblades to the office, but when they meet the coder in a suit, their polite expressions falter for a second. You hear them asking their friends “why is he wearing that here?” as you walk past. The number of times I was reminded that “You know, you don’t have to wear a suit here,” contradicted the idea of not having a dress code. Airbnb advocates a culture of belonging, and it seemed like my choice of dress was putting it to the test.There was one other man who would wear a suit to the office—I shot off the email and forgot about it till the following day when I was searching for a snack in the break room. Johnathan came up behind me and clasped me in a bear hug before pulling me into a meeting room. With incredible focus and charisma, he assured me that wearing a suit was This summer I dressed exactly how I wanted, while still maintaining respect for my company. I urge you to do the same. Fight the uphill battle against industry culture and psychology. People will conflate your appearance with how you will perform. Your discord with stereotypes will catch attention and scrutiny. Regardless, whether its a suit in tech or a t-shirt in finance, it’s up to you to proudly disprove people’s first impressions.Harvard College Computer Science 2017

Technology is fast. Good books are slow. In the time it takes to write and publish a quality work of nonfiction that explores how technological progress is changing our lives — for better or worse — a thousand startups can bloom and fade. Blink, and you missed a paradigm shift. It’s an old story, well known to both Wall Street and Silicon Valley: making sense of what is happening is a lot harder than quickly cashing in on it.The good news is that the deeper we get into our digital transformation, the more time smart reporters and writers and thinkers have had to digest the swiftly tumbling kaleidoscopic tech zeitgeist. Of the 20 years since the World Wide Web broke mainstream, 2014 may go down as the best year yet for meaty, meaningful books on the challenges and promise of technological change. Whether it’s the oncoming invasion of our robot overlords, the latest extraordinary advances in cyber-warfare or the privacy implications of social media and big data, we’ve harvested a delightful bumper crop this year. The big takeaway: Society is catching up to the implications of all that the computer has wrought.Enough preamble — let’s get to the good stuff: Here are my nominees for the ten best technology books of the year, in no particular order.Make no mistake — the robots are definitely coming. Most likely we still have a few decades before full-fledged AIs capable of writing their own nuanced books (not to mention, end-of-year top 10 lists!) arrive on the scene, yet there is little question that recent advances in automation have significantly restructured job markets and the economy.Brynjolfsson and McAfee are two researchers at MIT amply conversant in both technology and economics. What makes The authors carefully document the latest economic research on how recent technological change may be contributing to growing economic inequality and competitive pressure on workers, while at the same time arguing that there is ample room to translate the undeniable productivity gains unleashed by innovation into widely shared prosperity. But how to make that happen requires action. Society has to make choices: In February, I moderated an appearance by Brynjolffson and McAfee at San Francisco’s Commonwealth Club. My closing question to the two men was: so, are we going to figure this out? McAfee said yes. Brynjolffson wasn’t so sure…Ranting about how the Internet is destroying culture is easy. Writing a nuanced, fact-based argument that portrays both the pros and cons of technological change as it applies to the ongoing evolution of politics and creative expression, while also outlining a positive path forward, is really, really hard. In Her over-riding thesis? Here’s a taste: “Material and social conditions have not given way to will and imagination. Neither the body nor its social context has become irrelevant. The disparities of the off-line world have not been upended and we do not have equal access to the tools of creative production and capacity to attract an audience.”But I’m not even going to try to summarize the details that bolster those assertions with steel girders — to do so would subtract precisely the nuance that makes Zetter displays equal facility in reporting two thorny narratives; the duplicitous struggle by the state of Iran to develop the capability to build nuclear bombs, and the arcane intricacies of state-of-the-art computer virus science. We’ve got weapons of nuclear mass destruction and weapons of digital mass destruction; a geopolitical technothriller that needs no James Bond to make it sexy.Zetter’s narrative is remorseless. Her reporting is extraordinarily thorough; and the implications are challenging. Because as she prosecutes her case, you can’t help realize that there’s a bigger, more open-ended story worth tracking. If Stuxnet happened, what else is going on? What are Chinese, Russian and American state-backed hackers unleashing on each other? As the world’s infrastructure becomes increasingly digital, every computer and every phone is a potential battlefield. Just ask Sony.As the founder of the popular online dating site OKCupid, Christian Rudder discovered he had access to an extraordinarily intimate and revealing database: the truths, and lies, that people tell when they are trying to get a date. In this witty and informative book, he tries to The top line is depressing and predictable. Guess what: men are sexist pigs, and we’re all pretty racist. But the bottom line is more provocative. The data collected by Rudder is just one sliver of the vast amounts of information that are being collected about us by a legion of online clearinghouses. Rudder’s methodology has been questioned by some In literary circles Vikram Chandra is well regarded as a novelist, with special attention to his sprawling novel about India, The result is a Follow Backchannel: 20-year veteran of online journalism, formerly a lifer at Salon, now untethered. On Twitter Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

Yesterday morning, Mayor Bill de Blasio took to the stage to announce the nation’s most ambitious and far-reaching technology education effort to date: New York City will deliver computer science education to every student in each of the City’s public elementary, middle, and high schools by 2025 through its new One in five New York City businesses employs tech talent, fueling the growth of a tech sector that today represents nearly 300,000 jobs and $30 billion in annual wages. Between 2007 and 2014, tech employment in the City grew 57 percent, nearly six times faster than overall citywide employment. And by the year 2020, the U.S. Bureau of Labor projects there to be more than 1.4 million computer specialist job openings nationwide.Imagine the potential. There are 1.1 million students in New York City’s public schools today. With this commitment, every student will learn the fundamentals of computer science, from web development to robotics to computational thinking. That’s 1.1 million New York City students equipped with what Mayor de Blasio called the “fundamentals of our future.” This, compared to the 39,000 students who took the AP computer science exam in all of the United States in 2014.These are the skills and competencies that will power the growth of every industry that thrives here in New York City, from technology to finance, advertising, manufacturing, retail and design. These are the skills and competencies that will unlock a world of opportunity for our students, our communities, and our businesses.And with scale comes greater equity. This commitment will dramatically diversify our recruiting pipeline, an issue that has plagued this sector in recent years. The evidence speaks for itself: Of the 738 New York City students who took the AP Computer Science exam in 2014, only 29 percent were female. What’s more, just 139 were Black or Hispanic. We have been leaving a lot of potential on the table. As one of the most diverse cities in the world, New York can do better.Broad-based, early exposure is critical to long-term success and persistence in tech. Computer Science for All will have an impact far beyond any investment one company can make.As New York City employers, we are deeply committed to supporting efforts to build the pipeline and expand opportunities for all New Yorkers, from the Mayor’s ‎With this announcement, the Mayor has bolstered New York City’s position as the place to start to a company, the place to build a team, and the place to deliver for businesses and people alike.Thank you, Mayor de Blasio. We all look forward to the next generation of talent born of this work — from Brooklyn to the Bronx.The official Medium channel of the City of New York.

China is a mystery country, there are plenty of things that you don’t know. Here are seven China tech facts that you must know! Do not miss this!According to one recent research, So, you if see any propaganda words like “As we all know, the nation of China started from cheap labor force and gained a name of “World Factory”. With economic recession recent years, China hope to finish a transition from labor-driven country to an innovation-driven country, like Japan and United States. Unfortunately, companies in China were not cool. From startups to listed enterprises, most of them lack the capacity of innovation. Some big Unicorn startup companies, like Didi, Meituan, Renren, they copied Uber, Groupon and Facebook at their very beginning. Some small companies even didn’t have a RD department.According to a research of Job-finding web, women employee would quit their job in 17 months and 29 days, which men are a little bit longer, 18 months and 6 days. In China, the job-hopping behavior was recently encouraged in tech area because job-hopping can lead to a wage hike.Normally, if one programmer choose to stay in one company, his salary would increase 20% annually; but if he choose to quit and find a new job in a new company, he would get a 25% wage hike. No wonder employees want to job-hopping.In 2003, when Chinese people were celebrating their home-made CPU “Hanxin” (or HISYS), someone found out a gigantic plot behind that small chip and its maker — — Professor Chen Jin. 3 years later, a man with a nickname of “deep throat” criticized Professor Chen in Tsinghua University BBS, saying Hanxin CPU is a huge lie.After a month of investigation, they came to a conclusion that Chen faked in Hanxin. To all’s surprise, Chen hired some labor to polish the printed marks in chips made by Motorola. The model of these polished CPUs are MOTO-freescale 56800, made by Motorola in August, 2002. After the polish, Chen send them to government to get over 100 million RMB financial support.It’s predicted that till 2020, investment from institutional and personal investor and government would reach toThe investment is changing people’s life in US. You would see more cheap but cost-performance smartphone and many other smart devices, you can buy cheap but high quality goods from China and use better designed apps, such as WeChat or so. Any way, it’s a good news.Here is the truth: If you have one Made-in-China smartphone bought in China, you would find that the operating system is kind different from the original Google Android System. Yes, they used the free and open-source Android System not the paid Google Android. For example, MIUI from Xiaomi, H2 and O2 from OnePlus.There are three kinds of crowdfunding platform in China, they are reward crowdfunding, equity crowdfunding and social crowdfunding. Especially the first kind is much more popular in China, many Internet companies want to build their own reward crowdfunding platforms. Some rich companies participated in equity crowdfunding platforms, but most of them are just flash in the pan.Since 2013, 70 crowdfunding platforms are shown online but over 16 were died. Besides that, crowdfunding frauds can be seen in almost any Chinese crowdfunding platform. If you see a sleek thing in Chinese crowdfunding platform, please double check its qualification. Follow us on Twitter ( Tech-News-In-China brings you the most interesting tech stories and interesting tech products from China. Why not follow news from this interesting country?Here have plenty tech stories from China, that mystery country. Say Nihao(你好) Say Hi! : )

It’s hard to argue with the fact that intellect, creativity, and resourcefulness are evenly distributed by zip code. Unfortunately, access and opportunity are not.This is embarrassingly apparent in the high-stakes world of tech entrepreneurship. If you line up founders of the top 25 tech “unicorns” — startups now worth more than $1 billion — you won’t see any African American or Latino/a faces, and you will see hardly any women.That glaring gap was the reason behind today’s first-ever At this promising moment, I am proud to announce that the Kapor family of organizations is making a My wife Freada and I have made it our life’s work to close the opportunity gap in tech. Through our organizations — As we’ve often said, there is both a For the past 14 years the Level Playing Field Institute has sought to close this gap by operating rigorous STEM-focused college prep programs for low-income students of color. This year, Over the next three years Our team at Kapor Capital is itself majority people of color, so our Three of these four companies were founded by an entrepreneur from an underrepresented background; all are committed to closing gaps in access and opportunity. We will continue to seek out founders with big ideas that have the potential to generate both economic returns Finally, we believe that the effort to make entrepreneurship more inclusive will ultimately need to be a local phenomenon. We hope and believe that our $40 million commitment will encourage others in the tech industry to match and multiply our investments. We have always been early investors, assuming risk at the seed stage in order to prove concept viability to later-term investors. This has been true whether the investments are for profit or non-profit endeavors. In this way our investments have a huge multiplier effect, and we expect that that will be the case with this pledge. Just a few years ago we were virtually alone in this endeavor.Now, as major tech companies have started to At the end of the day, making tech more inclusive is about more than just accessing untapped talent; it is about rethinking the kind of products that America makes. As we can tap into a wider range of lived experiences, we will see more startups that narrow gaps in our society like Lendstreet, Honor, Piazza, or Proven, and fewer that only serve to widen those gaps.Imagine how different the tech world would look today if industry leaders had committed to diversity and inclusion a decade ago. Now imagine what it could look like in 10 years if we choose to double down on diversity now.That is a vision worth investing in, and we invite others to join us.startup investor and advisor, social change advocate/activistA compendium of recommended pieces on issues  ideas towards solutions, in Tech’s known quest towards cultivating a more inclusive culture.

By Becoming a Tech Lead is a tough transition for any developer because only part of the skills and experience you had as a developer prepare you for the expectations of a new role. Instead of simply designing and writing code, a Tech Lead is suddenly responsible for an entire development team — and this means dealing with people, both technical and non-technical.The time a developer spent focusing on writing well-designed code does not translate into the skills necessary for understanding people, resolving conflict, or suddenly having to juggle more tasks than what they can possibly achieve by themselves.Here are my five tips for being an effective Tech Lead.As a developer, you get a kick from working out what the hard, technical problem is to solve. You research different ways to solve the problem, seeking the most simple solution and celebrate a victory when you want that red, failing test go green.As a Tech Lead, you cannot take on all the coding tasks, and cannot take on all the hard or interesting problems regardless of your experience. You have many more responsibilities that need time and attention, and if you are focused solely on a single task, those other responsibilities will fail to be fulfilled. When you take on the harder problems, it also misses an opportunities for other developers to grow and problem solve which will lead to frustration and potentially people leaving your team!Of course, there are some problems when your experience and knowledge are important but you do not want to be a bottleneck in solving problems, so you want to find a way to delegate but still be involved. Solutions might include kicking off a design session with developers to talk about general approaches, and reviewing progress with the developer on a regular basis to see if things are on track.As you and the developer build trust with each other, you can be less involved and fully delegate an activity to let you focus on more important tasks.The role is called “Tech Lead” for a reason, and it is essential that you find some time to spend in the codebase. Being involved in the code helps you build respect with the rest of the team, but it also helps keep your knowledge up to date and current with constraints, problems and the “shape” of the current codebase.If you do not spend time with the code, you run the risk of invoking the “Ivory Tower Architect” anti-pattern, leading technical decisions without understanding their real implications for implementation or maintenance. This anti-pattern has numerous side effects including destroying trust with developers, increasing the development time of new features, and increasing the accidental complexity of your software systems.There are many different ways a Tech Lead can find time to code, but it is essential that you make it a priority. This often means making difficult choices about where you spend your time. Tip #1 should help increase the amount of available time you have. I know some Tech Leads who will block out time in their calendar to ensure that there is always time during the week to write or review code with the other developers. I know of other Tech Leads who review commit logs, and provide feedback to developers — similar to a loose pair-programming style.I have worked in several teams where developers had no idea how their task fit into a bigger picture. A small technical decision made by a developer might have a wider architectural impact but impossible to prevent if developers to do understand the broader picture.An effective Tech Lead often has a visual representation of their system architecture on-hand and uses it to have discussions with developers. There will often be different views of the architecture (logical, deployment, etc) and each diagram helps developers see how their task fits into a broader system architecture.A whole-team whiteboard session is often a useful exercise for reviewing the overall architecture as it evolves over time to meet differing requirements and the discussion during the session is even more important than the diagram. Focus on key quality attributes that drive your architectural vision (scalability, performance, usability concerns, etc) and how they have shaped your architecture. Call out assumptions and the historical context to help developers guide their everyday decisions.An effective Tech Lead will not be measured in how many coding tasks they complete. They are measured by how effective their software team is. Anything that a Tech Lead can do to make each person on their team better makes the overall team better. Sit down with members on your team to understand their backgrounds, their strengths, their interests and their goals to understand how the people in your team fit together as a group.Connect developers with opportunities for them to grow. This means allowing them to take risks so they can learn and grow, but also contribute to the team. Encourage people to share knowledge across the team and find ways to help each team member connect with each other.To be an effective Tech Lead, you will need a great relationship with people outside of the development team including people like Product Managers, Marketing, Sales and CxOs. They will not understand the vocabulary you accumulated as a developer, and talking to them in terms of frameworks, technical tools and platforms will only confuse them.An effective Tech Lead finds ways that non-technical people can understand technical concepts and the best way to do that is to find the terms that business people use and find ways to explain tasks in those terms. Use visual models, whiteboard sessions and metaphors to help business people understand technical concepts and their implications. You might practice on friends or relatives who don’t work in technology to see if you can succinctly explain an idea.Minimise the translation layer as much as possible by bringing business terms into the development team and encouraging their use as much as possible. The better the developer team uses these domain terms, the better their understanding and empathy with business stakeholders will be.A community of passionate individuals whose purpose is to revolutionize software design, creation and delivery, while advocating for positive social change.Essays on Technology, Innovation, Product Strategy and Leadership. Readers favorites and editors choices from ThoughtWorks Insights.

I think of books as technology. The broadest and most useful definition of technology I’ve heard is simply, “the ability to do more with less.”We live only one life, but through books, we can gain the wisdom from thousands. Books are the most undervalued and under appreciated technology in the world.How do we know they’re so valuable? We need only to examine how the best and the worst people throughout history have viewed books.The worst seek to downplay, ban, or burn them. The fact that books have such extreme haters confirms their power.But amongst those who seek to do good in the world, to do no harm, books are adored.Like every other technology, if we use them without intention or any ascetics, it can lead to distraction. But when we learn how to appropriately value, select, and acquire them with stakes and incentives (buy them)… books become priceless. Here are seven reasons why books are the perfect technology.I apologize to all the modafinil lovers out there. But when it comes to tradeoffs, books have traditional nootropics beat. A traditional nootropic might be faster acting, but it’s just a temporary upgrade to your current abilities. Eventually, it wears off. Books permanently upgrade your mind, leaving you with a lifetime of benefits. The side effects of books have been tested by time, whereas the latest nootropics? Not so much.The best books are written when the author is in a flow state. The author transmits their wisdom, muse, or insights with minimal ego. When a reader seeking wisdom moves through these words and enters their own flow state… magic happens.I don’t know how it works, but after enough time of reading, my mind always feels upgraded. Programming our minds by moving consciously into the flow state (writing) of a wise person is a powerful teacher. When we upgrade our mental OS, our main apps; speaking, writing, and communicating all begin to run faster and more smoothly.After I published this article, Hoffer got it right that, “A man by himself is in bad company.” This might be true initially, but we can grow ourselves out of this place. It takes hard work to become good company to ourselves. But if we read, pause for reflection, and work on us… we can become good company for ourselves. By reading, we train and program ourselves for what is arguably the greatest human challenge of our time.Teaching ourselves how to be content, and even enjoy spending time alone, is a vital skill.There are tradeoffs for everything in life, but reading too much (of the best books) isn’t dangerous. The hunger for wisdom seems to be the only desire that we can satiate. There isn’t a risk of overindulgence. After enough reading, we become charged with good ideas and courage to go out and explore the world. Once we get fueled up on enough wisdom, we become inspired to embark on our next hero and heroine’s journey.Binge watching an entire series on Netflix leads to a hangover. Whereas attempting to, “binge” on books, leads to a certain point where we feel the urge to venture back out into the world. Mixing the wisdom from books with the direct experience of an adventurous life is always rewarding.The more we read and spend time with books, the more we practice mindfulness and meditation. Reading helps teach us patience, calmness, and builds our ability to focus deeply on a single thing for an extended period of time.Books and reading are one of the last societally acceptable reasons for being alone. If you need respite from society, there is no better strategic isolation than books. Books help keep us safe from crowds.Throughout history, books have given artists, masters, and philosophers an antifragile vehicle to place truth. So what do I mean by this? There are many people who hate to think. When they hear something wise, they’ll react viscerally, or even attack the person that brought them truth. Many in society hate the idea of pursuing truth, (becoming less wrong) or developing heuristics and insights about how the world works.Most creatives know this, so the only way to deliver truth in a palatable way that can survive attack is a book. The more entertaining the narrative or parable, the more readers will tolerate new ideas. Because the book is able to be sold, it helps these ideas survive attack, and gives their author a chance to capture a small amount of value from their ideas. This is a big leap forward for humans. Throughout our history, those who make others think are usually the first to be scapegoated, ostracized, or demonized. Books give the would-be scapegoat a vehicle to place their ideas so that they can survive attack, and sometimes even spread because of the attack.Books might be one of our (more) perfect technologies, but they are still technology. They are largely agnostic and neutral until we take the plunge, purchase one (acquire the incentives and stakes to read it) or find the books good enough to re-read:Technology can’t change our lives, only we can. When we take a perfect technology like books seriously, we can change our lives, lift up those around us, or even gain the secrets necessary to create new types of perfect technology.Veteran, Author, Accelerated Learning, Tech, Antifragility, and Definite Optimism

Hi, Backchannel readers.I wanted to flag something that we’ve been doing this week that’s a little different. It’s a feature in Medium called You Tell Me. Think of it as kind of reverse My colleagues at Medium decided that I should be the Subject Zero in a beta-test of this idea.As it turned out I had a topic I wanted to bring up — the apparent underrepresentation of people over 45, or 50, or 55, or 60 in tech companies, especially newer Internet firms. (You know…The discussion is already popping. To pick just a few people over the age of 50 already in the conversation, we have I urge you all — no matter what your age — to check out this discussion, post your own response, and reply to other responders.Young folks: is this an issue or baby boomer whining?Mature people: Has this affected you?Everyone: how can we achieve age diversity? Or should it take a back seat to other diversity needs? Or maybe old people should step aside?You tell me.Thanks for reading Backchannel.StevenI’m starting a tech hub at Medium.Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

School looks different today than it did even a handful of years ago. Teaching and learning is changing — in exciting ways — because the world is changing.We now live in a global economy with a knowledge-based marketplace, where the ultimate measure of our success is becoming less about what we know, but more about what we Technology has helped to accelerate this pace of change, retooling nearly every aspect of our daily life, from how we communicate, to how we shop, to how we receive medical care. Schools — many of which have been slow to embrace innovation — are beginning to engage in this digital revolution.In the United States, education is meant to be the great equalizer. Technology has the potential to bridge gaps for those who have the least. Simply put, technology can be a powerful tool for equality as well.Classrooms across the country are marrying hands-on, inquiry-driven learning with digital technologies. They are blending traditional instruction with computer-based activities. They’re also using the web to provide teachers and students with greater access to resources, primary source documents, and faraway subject matter experts. Importantly, teachers are helping students to leverage technology as a platform for collaboration, creativity, and self-expression.The $8 billion education technology sector has helped to make these changes possible, but we need to do even more.It’s about teaching yourself new skills when you encounter new challenges.Efforts to further educational innovation must not only help students to develop skills for modern lives and careers. They also must help prepare students to be captains of their future and creators of a better world in ways in which my generation, likely yours, and others before us never dreamed possible.Think about this: At Arizona State University’s Tempe campus, students in industrial design and innovation space programs use 3-D printers to And just a few decades ago, robots were the subjects of science fiction. Today, students like Kyle Weintraub are using robots to attend school while being treated for cancer (check out the video below).Almost every aspect of what we find most familiar about education is getting recalibrated. Students are as likely to learn from one another as they are from their teacher. A final exam may be a design challenge with real world implications, not just a test for a grade. Today’s students are also much more likely to expect their school to adjust to These are the right evolutions in our perceptions of teaching and learning. They’re also hard to do well, and widely. But, technology and innovation can help.Here’s what we need from technology in order for our children not only to flourish in — but also shape — the hyper-connected, high-tech world that awaits them:One danger of educational technology is that digital-learning tools and innovation could miss their potential to close persistent opportunity gaps and instead disproportionately benefit students who already have the most advantages. The way we use and provide access to technology can either exacerbate or diminish the differences among young people from different communities.That’s why the Obama administration has taken concrete steps to ensure access and equity in digital learning with funding for innovations that tailor learning to students’ needs and smarter assessments that measure content knowledge and important skills, like critical thinking.Another positive step is the And in the field, there is a growing push to create But equity doesn’t mean that we give the same solution to every child. Equity in education — and in educational technology — means that the tools and resources are personalized for each child’s needs.Great teachers have been doing this work for years. Technology can be a force-multiplier for teachers by helping them to see immediately which students need more support and then tailor learning activities accordingly.Throughout all of this work, we must recognize that technology by itself is neither good nor bad; it is merely an accelerator. Our job — as educators, parents, policymakers, funders, and developers alike — is to ensure that we use technology to accelerate the right things. And one fail-safe measure of whether an innovation is worth accelerating is by determining whether it will help us create more opportunity for kids.Until recently, the main function of public education has been to convey knowledge in one direction, from teachers to students. But with the growth of the Internet and mobile technology, our relationship to knowledge has fundamentally changed. To succeed in today’s world, our students need to be adept at not only recalling information, but using their knowledge to conceive, create, and employ solutions to real-world problems.Students aren’t vessels to be filled with facts. And educators aren’t simply transmitters of information.Technology is enhancing the crucial relationship between educators and learners, helping teachers to use their time and talents more effectively to personalize learning for students — tailoring the pace, approach, and context of the learning experience to students’ individual needs and interests.But teachers and students shouldn’t be limited as passive consumers of digital media. They can — and should — be the That’s why I am encouraged by the first-ever The central promise of personalized learning is to help people develop their unique strengths and passions. Both teachers and students can benefit from a vision of personalized learning that helps them become smart consumers and skilled creators of content and tools.Educators frequently share that teaching is the most difficult job anyone can have — and also the most rewarding. Teachers can literally shape the way young people see themselves and the world. Unfortunately, their efforts are too often not fully appreciated, supported, or immediately rewarded.The implications of that statement are clear: If we want to make teaching a more desirable — and sustainable — profession, we need innovative approaches that amplify the rewards and diminish the difficulties of being an educator.Technology can help by ensuring that professional development for teachers is just as personalized and meaningful as the education we expect them to provide to their students. We also need tools and platforms that provide customized feedback to teachers so they can deepen the quality of their practice precisely in the ways — and at precisely the times — they need. We need tools that ease the administrative burdens of the job to free teachers to spend more time engaging with their students.At the Department of Education, we’re working to do our part, whether it’s investing in The Collectively, we must be willing to let go of a lot of the things we’ve been associating with schools for a long, long time. The world is changing — and our schools must prepare students to become the people who will shape it for the better.BrightU.S. Secretary of EducationInnovation in Education

I’m a woman in tech. It’s not a place where I have felt secure. Like so many others, I have experienced the burden of sexism in this field. I was following the recentI have loved working in this industry for the past two years. I am a developer, but I come from a different background than many other engineers. I don’t have a CS degree. I didn’t go to a coding bootcamp and I haven’t worked with computers since I was seven. I grew up playing with Barbie dolls and dancing ballet. Programming still feels like a foreign and unnatural thing to me. Every day, I fight to learn a completely new way of thinking, but I’ve found my place.Last year, I came to a crossroad in my career. I was hired into what I thought was a technical position. I soon found out it included more operational duties. It was partially my fault, because I gravitated towards things that weren’t technical, but I constantly voiced that my goal was to be an engineer. I am good at doing organizational things though, because that’s all anyone ever thought I was good at, myself included. I knew I could be good at engineering too, but I needed others to give me a chance.The company was making some changes and they offered me an awesome job with a high-paying salary. It was not a technical position, and the alternative was leaving. The decision stressed me out and I went back and forth too many times to count. My boss at the time was a senior female developer. She was encouraging me to to take the position and give up writing code. I kept thinking, “I must not be good at this if my mentor is encouraging me to give it up.”The fact that my female mentor didn’t believe in me made the decision extremely difficult. It was also a tough choice because I constantly heard questions like, “Are you sure this is what you really want? You have so much more to offer than sitting behind a desk writing code all day. Why don’t you play to your strengths?” Of course, this is what the voice inside my head sometimes says. But it’s what keeps me striving to do better, and the reason I gravitate towards a field where the odds are against me.Quitting my job without another one lined up was terrifying, but it was the best decision I’ve ever made.It seems as if every day there is another article talking about the horrible things happening to women in the tech industry. There is always a new piece discouraging young women from entering the field. I finish each article with a feeling of hopelessness and heartbreak for my fellow comrades having these awful experiences. I want to hear more positive stories, because I know they are out there, too.Yes, the statistics are terrible and look bleak. I feel fortunate because I have been working as a software engineer at a Denver startup called I am empowered to pursue other things I am passionate about because I have an amazing work life balance. I spend my free time as a board member to I can, now, officially call myself a software engineer, and no one can take that away from me. To everyone out there who has been told they couldn’t do this, that they don’t belong, that the tech industry isn’t ready for them yet — give them the middle finger. It is possible, if you want it. I am proof of that. There are companies out there that will support you and take a risk on you. You may still be a minority (i.e. the only female, or the only person of color), but you won’t have to deal with the bullshit we hear about every day.We have a long way to go until we have a prominent voice in the industry, but until then, play by your own rules, work hard and go after your dream. It won’t be easy or painless, and there will probably be a lot of tears but it will be worth it. One day you will sit down in front of that beautiful Thunderbolt monitor with your company-provided breakfast, write some code, have an amazing and empowering career and do something you never thought was possible.Developer at GoSpotCheck, co-founder Stories of the Future Present. A new media magazine of stories, series, longform, photo essays, short-films and graphic novel. This is our collection on Medium. Find out more at: expost-news.com/en

Founder of Product Club: a new product development and invention company based in San Francisco.  Previously: Brickhouse, Fire Eagle, BBC, Time Out etc.The story you’ve been missing.

When I came to Silicon Valley 18 years ago, I stayed.I found the place that fanned the flames of my ambition and my irrational faith in what I could achieve. I went on to lead large businesses at Google, to found two companies — Yodlee (YDLE) and Joyus — and have been fortunate to work with a handful of others as board member, advisor or investor (TripAdvisor, Ericsson, Twitter, Stitch Fix among them). I am one of thousands of women entrepreneurs who have found success and fulfillment here in the last 20 years.But before I stayed, I almost left. Having arrived here with a successful track record in media and investment banking, I was surprised to be told by my first tech boss that I “scared the secretaries” on my second day at work. After being given increasingly junior tasks and watching a volatile male colleague’s behavior get rewarded, I considered leaving the Valley altogether. Instead, I switched jobs, moving to a startup where the four (male) founders embraced my drive, and found my way.More universally, all tech entrepreneurs, not just female ones, encounter bias. Be it gender, age or business model, people make judgments about us as we pitch our vision long before we have data. Beyond biases, we face mixed data signals every day as we keep iterating between vision and reality over months and years. Were we to yield to stats or all the negative signaling, no one would ever start a company. Over the last few months, press coverage about women in tech has been dominated by the “negative” signals. The narrative rightly identifies many of the issues in the Valley that demonstrate women are not yet contributing at their fullest potential here.But absent almost entirely in this coverage is the experience of women entrepreneurs themselves. Looking at the press, one might think women entrepreneurs are not only hard to find, but struggling to succeed. If we want to progress the path of potential women founders, it is equally important to bring this perspective to the table.I reached out to more than 100 women tech entrepreneurs across the country and asked for their help in shaping this perspective. Through a simple survey, coupled with public data collection, a picture starts to emerge of some of the women who are and have been building tech companies successfully in the Valley for the last 20 years.First, the number of women starting tech companies is rising in absolute (if not yet relative) numbers. To illustrate what’s possible, we’ve highlighted a cross section of 230 women who have collectively started or led 301 tech companies across all sectors and stages of growth over this period. Approximately 29 percent of women of the original list posted are serial entrepreneurs. You can see the The women on this list founded heavyweights such as Lynda.com, Nextdoor, Houzz, VMware, ASK Group and Mozilla; growth-stage stars like Stitch Fix, Slideshare, Indiegogo, LearnVest and StyleSeat; and earlier-stage startups like Lumoid, Heartwork, Other Machine Company and Trendalytics. On this list alone, we were able to identify 13 IPOs and another 54 exits through MA. The average amount of capital raised per company is approximately $34 million (for a subset of 167 companies on which data was available).Through the subset of survey respondents (you can also take the survey We have not been exempt from gender bias or worse in our careers; it has simply not been the defining factor in our journey as entrepreneurs. Like all entrepreneurs, multiple other forces have influenced our ability to build our own companies.Overall, if this cross-section of women entrepreneurs in any way represents the larger whole, we are the biggest “bulls” on women starting tech companies today.At the same time, As we execute in big ways and small, we also signal our intent. And in the world of tech, all signals are not created equal. It’s time to show potential female founders even more clearly that we #ChoosePossibility.Sincerely,Sukhinder Singh Cassidy | Joyus, YodleeAlexandra Wilkis Wilson | GiltAlison Pincus | One Kings LaneAllison Johnson | WestAmy Chang | AccompaniAnna Santeramo | StyleBeeBarrie Seidenberg | Viator*Brandee Barker | Pramana CollectiveCaroline Ghosn | Levo LeagueClara Shih | Hearsay SocialDana Loberg | Movielala; Art DebutanteDarlene Mann | AkoonuDawn Lepore | Drugstore.com*Debbie Sterling | GoldiebloxDiana Williams | JoyusDonna Dubinsky | Numenta, Handspring; PalmEloise Bune | Gracious EloiseGisel Kordestani | CrowdpacHeidi Roizen | T/MakerHeidi Zak | ThirdloveJana Rich | Rich Talent GroupJennifer Fonstad | Aspect VenturesJennifer Sharp | HDGreetingsJessica Lee | Modern CitizenJoanna Drake Earl | CurrentTVJulie Sygiel | Dear KateKaren Moon | TrendalyticsKatina Mountanos | ManicubeKatrina Lake | StitchFixKirsten Green | Forerunner VenturesLaney Whitcanack | BigTentLeah Busque | TaskRabbitLisa Stone | BlogHerLiz Whitman | Manicube; Lewis AlbertLorna Borenstein | GrokkerLynn Jurich | SunrunMaria Seidman | YappMariah Chase | Eloquii; Send The TrendMauria Finley | Citrus LaneMelody McCloskey | StyleSeatMila Krivoruchko | MilasyaRashmi Sinha | SlideShareRuzwana Bashir | PeekSandra Kurtzig | Kenandy; The ASK Group; EbenefitsSandra Lin | Kiwi CrateSheila Lirio Marcelo | Care.comShaherose Charania | Women 2.0Shanna Tellerman | Pencil and Pixel; Slim Ops StudiosSheri Atwood | SupportPaySonja Hoel Perkins | Broadway AngelsStephanie Tilenius | Vida Health; Planet RXSusan Feldman | One Kings LaneSusan Gregg Koger | ModClothSusan Lyne | Gilt, BBG VenturesTheresia Gouw | Aspect VenturesTina Fitch | Hobnob, SwitchFloyTina Sharkey | Sherpa Foundry*, iVillageTracy DiNunzio | TradesyTracy Sun | PoshmarkPassions- building companies, most of all Joyus (Founder  CEO), helping women succeed, fashion, decor, skiing, my amazing kids

Apple had 10 earlier employees, according to Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple. In Apple’s early days, Wozniak’s technical position won him the No.1 Employee (now we know why Apple is so great).Jobs was kind of unhappy to the rank, so he asked Michael Scott, the first Apple CEO to name him the The CPU, RAM, ROM, and display were supplied by different manufacturers. CPUs were made by Samsung and TSMC; RAM were made by Samsung and SK Hynix; ROM were provided by SK Hynix MLC and Toshiba TLC; and to the displays, were provided by LG and Sharp.CPUs manufactured by TSMC are much better, so does Samsung RAM, Toshiba TLC, and Sharp displays. In Hong Kong, people are returning their lower level iPhone 6s an iPhone 6s Plus.According to a third-party research company The reason why Uber failed is its aggressive attitude, which was totally against China’s government policy. May RIP for you, Uber China.It was rumored that if a smartphone were turned into Airplane mode, it will spend less battery and make the charging process more quickly. But one China website made a test to failisfy this rumor. They got three smartphones to charge the battery, and every phone charged twenty minutes.20 mins later, the results were shown that the iPhone get 20% increase in normal mode, and the same 20% increase in Airplane mode; and the Samsung get 20% and 21%, a slight increase; and Lenovo, 18% vs 19%, Chinese people are really crazy on that day. It was reported that Jack Ma had given his employees’ order to surpass that number this year. Let’s watch next month.According to Alexa, there are dozens of porn sites in the Top 500 websites. And to your surprise, You know what’s that means? When you husband or boyfriend closed the door and said to you that they were working, actually, they were watching porns.We all know Hewlett-Packard, Apple and Microsoft are the most famous tech companies in this world. They are famous for their products and software and their founders.They do charity and spread the innovation. But one common thing they all have that you never know is, As we look the newest status of Y Combinator, the world’s most successful startup incubator, we find that after years’ of development, only 11% of startups exited. Looking at your phone, there must have over 100 apps, if you find some app you haven’t used for two weeks, then they are the first patch to die.Bitcoin is a virtual currency which can really buy you something if you want. At it’s first appearance, the value of one bitcoin is 0.06 dollar, but in Nov.25th, 2013, the value of bitcoin boosted to $ 979.45. That is a 16, 000-time value added. But now the price went down to $ 250.You know what, one guy Recently, the Voice of China, a famous tv show just ended two weeks ago. Just like Super Bowl, they sold out a lot of commercials. Only one, yes, only one bidded out the final 60s commercial. It’s a second-hand car company who spent 30 million RMB to play the This company has an estimated value of $200 million. But to your lighting-bolt surprise, this company only sold out 2 secondary cars before the commercial. Yes, only two and valued at 200 million. Are these cars with jets or equipped with something out-space?Twitter:Email: Website: Feeling happy while reading this story? Please click the recommend button below, and more people would join your happiness. :-)Tech-News-In-China brings you the most interesting tech stories and interesting tech products from China. Why not follow news from this interesting country?Here have plenty tech stories from China, that mystery country. Say Nihao(你好) Say Hi! : )

Can you imagine talking to a colleague who has the same title, 3 years less experience, and has a higher salary than you? I’m thinking your day will be immediately ruined.The fact of the matter is, this is reality for many people. The better programmer or designer doesn’t always have a higher the salary. So, how can you make sure that you’re getting paid what you’re worth?Here are 7 ways that you can improve your salary.Here is a powerful graph from Use this information to leverage your salary negotiation. It’s not something you can show a future employer and go “Hey, look it’s a candidate market! Pay me more!”.This is more useful for you to know that when you are negotiating pay that you have more wiggle room than you would normally expect. If you really are great at what you do, then you can negotiate a little bit harder to get what you deserve without expecting too much push back.The demand is currently much higher than the supply.Not only is it a candidate market, there are tons of open tech positions available. What this means is that some professionals are taking advantage of market conditions by leaving their jobs and finding new higher paying jobs.Granted this statistic is for the U.S. market only, I can only imagine similar trends are happening worldwide.Look no further than this Below is another powerful graph from the same article. It’s clear that finding a new job is the easiest way to bump your salary.When speaking with a recruiter or hiring manager you will often get the questions “What is your current compensation?”If you state your current salary and it is much lower than they were expecting, your raise might not be as high as it could be. Now, some recruiters it is in their best interest to get you the highest salary, but you can’t always assume that for everyone involved in the process.What I have seen work the best is to either pass on answering that question or offer your desired compensation instead.When it comes to desired recommendation always start at the high end and don’t be modest.For programmers, GitHub and other open source platforms have made demonstrating your work easier than ever. Obviously, you can’t share the work you’ve done for your current company, but sharing side projects and passions that you’ve created puts you one step ahead.The same thing goes for designers and marketers. Hiring managers and recruiters want to see your work publicly. Impressive public work will often sway hiring manager and recruiters to pursue you harder since the world has seen your work and they believe you’re a great fit for the job.Yes, great recruiters do exist.At We let tech candidates rate recruiters. This allows other tech candidates to see which recruiters are the best and holds recruiters accountable.There is only one way to know what you’re worth, and that’s to get an offer. There are plenty of sites that will give you ranges of what you should make based on your job title and geographic location, but nothing will be as good as seeing your name on a piece of paper next to your salary. You want to know what YOU’RE worth, not what your position is worth in a particular place.My rule of thumb is a minimum of 3 interviews per year even if I’m happily employed. If I’m extremely happy, I’ll only interview twice.If you’re picky about who you interview with and want to make sure it’s time worth spending, June allows you to -Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

A fellow female (who is a very talented software engineer) told me to my face today that I am “NOT a woman in tech.”She also told the other two women in the room (who also work in tech) that they are NOT women in tech.I saw a flash of sad disappointment across their faces as they accepted her viewpoint and I felt the word-induced slap across my face.One of the other women creates SOWs for complex cybersecurity solutions and the other gives technical demonstrations of software.We may barely dabble in HTML, but we don’t know Ruby or Java. We don’t speak their language. We are not a part of “the club.”We have chosen to tilt the balance in a (nerdy) “man’s world,” where we shoot Nerf guns and sit in conference rooms named after Star Wars planets.We have chosen to join a company where we have to constantly educate ourselves on technology. The innovation and the education never ends. You can’t read a text book and be done — it changes daily.We have to understand our company’s technology and terminology and be able to speak about it in an educated way to our coworkers, sales leads, customers and market. We may not be able write the code that built the tech, but we certainly aren’t technical idiots. You’ll rarely see a tech company hire anyone that is.And like most of the world, we have to use technology for every aspect of our job. Whether it’s writing a short script for social media growth hacking, or digging deep into a software for a client demo, or simply adding some equations to an Excel file.Yes, we need more women software engineers. It’s hugely important! Out of the low percentage of women in the tech workforce, there’s an even smaller percentage of women developers.We need more coding boot camps for women of all ages. We need to encourage the next generation of young girls to become interested in coding. We need to give them the proper resources to learn. We need to tell young girls that they are great at math and science. Rather than only signing them up for, say, ballet classes, we need to also sign them up for coding classes. We need to make coding a part of our grade school curriculum, the way ‘keyboarding/typing’ used to be. We need to celebrate the women in tech that we have today, and be sure that they are there for young girls as mentors or inspiration.We need to balance the gender hiring scale first — let’s first have tech companies with a workforce that is 50/50 — and then let’s aim for 50/50 in the marketing department, 50/50 in the sales department, and 50/50 in the technical department. And let’s aim for equal pay while we’re at it.Director of Marketing at 

Remember when a On this question, we usually hear from teachers, parents, administrators, tech companies, and investors clamoring to fund them. Now, it’s time for teens to talk. Let me tell you what my friends and I really think about technology in the classroom. Some of it’s great, but for those EdTech enthusiasts out there, well, hold on because the truth may hurt.For as much educational value as tablets can contribute, theyWise to tablets’ distraction potential, some teachers have banned them completely. But that seems ridiculous, considering that sometimes students were required to buy tablets, therefore wasting a couple hundred bucks by not using them. Teachers need to find a happy medium, like having tablet-free lessons followed by a tablet-integrated activity. Also, teachers should consider using laptops instead. They feel more serious, and the addition of a keyboard facilitates actual work and note taking. Laptops may lack the sleek design appeal of their tablet counterparts, but they are far more functional as teaching tools, and a better long-term investment in EdTech.So yes, tablets can be used to create a new age of interconnected classrooms of the future — but they are just as likely to turn into procrastination stations. You have been warned.Like a good little pupil, my first move after school everyday is to boot up my teachers’ websites on an oh-so-eager hunt for my homework assignments. If I’m lucky, a teacher proficient in the dark arts of web design will gift me with a clean, easy-to-use web page. Conversely, an — ahem — older faculty member might construct a lime-green monstrosity that truly should be ashamed to call itself a website.I pity the poor English teacher out there who definitely didn’t sign up for web design when applying for the job, but times are changing. Nowadays, students often have more knowledge than teachers when it comes to tech. So if teachers are struggling even to post homework, or are leaving students to navigate a site that looks like MySpace circa 1999, it makes them look, to put it simply, outdated.To remedy the inconsistency, my suggestion is to teach the teachers. Introducing, drum roll please, teacher website building bootcamp! All joking aside, schools should introduce technical support for struggling teachers so that students won’t have to suffer through any more clumsy attempts at websites.The system seems great for tech-savvy teachers, but it does put a few stressful requirements on students. In order to use it effectively in a classroom, everyone needs a tablet or laptop, which gets expensive and introduces distractions.Right now, only one of my teachers has a Google Classroom page, so it doesn’t have a big impact on my schooling. However, if I look into my tech-predicting crystal ball, I can see Google Classroom playing a larger role in education — as long as there is uniform adoption throughout a school.Homework. My adult friends say it still shows up in nightmares decades after graduation. Truly, there is nothing more upsetting than not understanding a subject and not being able to find help quickly. Well, fret no more. Khan Academy is a web-based program that provides explanations, tools, and support on a vast array of topics. Khan Academy started as a Youtube channel but has now expanded into an online community and an easy-to-use app. With an arsenal of thousands of free videos that teach lessons ranging from trigonometry to Prehistoric art in Europe and West Asia, Khan Academy is like an at-home personal tutor.For the sake of complete disclosure, Khan Academy has saved my life. In my most desperate of hours, after spending an agonizing night trying to figure out what in the world a derivative is, I turned to Khan. To my relief, the website had video after video of explanations and examples. It was like the angry storm clouds of calculus broke and I could see the light. Actually, I just went to sleep, but still!However, the drawback of relying too heavily on good ol’ Khan is that its videos simply cannot provide students with everything we need to know. I see Khan Academy as an amazing Hi, my name is Soraya and I am a social media-holic. I, like many of my teenage peers, spend copious amounts of time compulsively checking social media.The chime of a tweet, the flash of a notification, and the beep of a Facebook message all seem to capture youth attention, which is why there has been a push to integrate social media into education. A leader in the social EdTech charge is Twitter, the home of vibrant conversations confined to 140 characters or less. Teachers use Twitter as a platform to track major events with hashtags, pose discussion questions, or update students with daily assignments.Teachers: Before you use social media for education, consider the risks. Twitter conversations are public and completely subject to trolling, when people purposefully target, provoke, and offend online. Trolling can cause a perfectly educational discussion to devolve into a heated argument that a teacher cannot control. Cyberbullying is still alive and well. Imagine a student trying to add an important, poignant comment to a class Twitter feed and not only getting no retweets or likes, but also being ridiculed for sharing an opinion. Teachers and students will be at the mercy of the Wild West of Twitter. The Internet can be swift and cruel. Twitter especially is not for the faint of heart.Despite the rather scary picture I just painted, Twitter holds immense But the way most teens use Twitter does not foster in-depth academic dialogue. People share trivial things like “Just ate breakfast #yum” or cat pics. The character constraints can make real conversations on Twitter harried and unfocused. So also consider blog settings like Tumblr.A touch capable projector screen… Yeah, I don’t see the big whoop for this one. It’s cheaper to hook an iPad up to a projector than to splurge on this thing. Clunky, expensive, and dare I say sometimes dumb, interactive white boards have not been the wave of the future as expected. The biggest selling point is how students can interact with the board. But the limited applications make these boards not worth their price tag, which can run $1,000 and up.Really though, I should be honest with you. The truth is I will never like Evernote or other note-taking apps because I am an old-timey pen and paper type gal. A tactile learner, if you will. So when my AP English teacher required that we use Evernote to download daily schedules and to share our in-class notes with her, I just wasn’t having it. People have been trying to capture the notebook experience with the addition of styluses and connectable keyboards, but for me, nothing will be the same as flipping open the real thing. Sorry, Evernote: it’s not you, it’s me.Remember when you used to have to carry around school supplies? Lol, how silly was that! Now, you can just log into Google Drive and have access to folders filled with Docs, Sheets, Slides, and so much more. Sure, it’s a total rip off of Microsoft Word, but who cares…it’s Google.I love the sharability of work on Drive. Or is that a negative? On the one hand, being able to share docs can create a collaborative experience in which students help each other and teachers can comment and make corrections. On the other hand, students will be students, and sharability can transform into peer sabotage and, sometimes, cheating. The idea of academic integrity and privacy only becomes more complex as classrooms ramp up their interconnectivity.TBH, while a few teens can be vindictive, I think the real reason to share a Doc is so you can chat with your friends. I mean, English class can get boooorrring.My favorite thing about Google drive (sarcasm alert) is doing online group projects. There is nothing better than harassing and cajoling partners into doing their share of the project. Even better is when one partner types over what you just wrote!Though EdTech seems like it’s here to stay, I think that technology in the classroom has a long way to go before being used effectively. The issues that plague EdTech are major — cheating, distraction, privacy concerns, inconsistency in implementation, inequality in access, and price.I truly believe that the most memorable parts of my education have come when a teacher has taken the time to sit down and talk me through an equation, or given an impassioned speech on how sodium and chlorine become salt. The next step for EdTech is to foster and enhance those memorable moments in school, get teens excited to learn, and make students feel invested in their education anew. While I still have qualms about where EdTech is today, I predict that with time, there will only be more technology saturation, more tech-literate kids, and more opportunities to use tech in the classroom.One day, I’ll become the crotchety old grandma who says, “Back in my day, we only had iPads, not hologram decks.” And some young whippersnapper will respond, “Well, let me tell you how teens really feel about holograms.”BrightInnovation in Education

Social-media addicted teens, the rise of Anonymous, the war on privacy, and the problem with corporate profanity; feast yourselves on five more of the best technology books of the year. (Part I is Parents, you have permission to chill out. Yes, your children are growing up in an environment of digital distraction and immersion unlike anything ever experienced by any generation of humans who have ever lived on this planet. Yes, they appear to be spending way too much of their quality time on Facebook and Instagram and Snapchat and something that was just invented yesterday that you haven’t yet heard of.But please, So argues One of her key points: Today’s teenagers have it rough. Curfews, over-controlling parents, poverty and racial tensions, along with seething paranoia about unsupervised interactions in physical space have all made it more difficult for today’s teens to figure out who they are. Social media is one of the few spaces left for them to be themselves, to experiment and to play.As an antidote to fear-mongering and a manual for how to parent in the 21st century, Nicolas Carr is notorious for the headline of a piece he wrote for You don’t have to believe that the Internet is actually making us dumber to get value from Carr’s latest book, an exploration of some of the downsides to an increasingly automated, digitally mediated life. Where other critics are shrill and frothy, Carr is level-headed; an eloquent writer and a subtle thinker. OK, maybe he wrings his hands a little. He’s a worrier. But sometimes we need worriers. And after a few years of unpleasant surprises about the state of our online privacy and security, society may be a bit more appreciative of his basic argument than it was five or ten years ago.Automation, suggests Carr, doesn’t just threaten jobs, it changes who we are, and not always for the better. Automatic pilots on aircraft have been proven to erode pilot skills, he writes. So what happens when all our cars are self-driving? What do we lose when we forget to drive? What do we lose when our smartphones do everything for us?Silicon Valley startup founders and venture capital investors scoff at such namby-pamby talk. But only a fool ignores the truth that there are tradeoffs inherent in any evolutionary or revolutionary change. Reading Nicholas Carr didn’t convince me to throw away my smartphone or return to writing with quill and inkwell, but it did make me think, pause and reflect — essential activities for surviving our fast-moving future.The title says it all. If we learned anything about the Internet over the past two years, it has been that the extent to which corporations and governments are snooping on our personal information goes far beyond what any of us expected or imagined the first time we pressed send on an email, texted a lover or simply searched for a good deal on headphones on Google. We might have once thought that the Internet was mostly about giving This culture-wide exercise in consciousness raising made the publication this spring of longtime Wall Street Journal reporter At the end of her year “of trying to evade surveillance,” Angwin writes that she felt surprisingly hopeful,” even though “my efforts to evade the dragnets were not very successful.” She concludes that her “hope is that if enough people join me in refusing to consent to ubiquitous indiscriminate surveillance, we might also prompt a conversation that could unravel it.” I hope she’s right: The one outlier in this list of ten should properly be in the best business book category. But since the author is one half of the hugely influential Silicon Venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, and the topic, roughly speaking, is how to steer your tech startup to success, it offers an important look at a key part of the overall technology puzzle. Most of the books in this list were written by people critiquing or explaining what Silicon Valley has wrought. Horowitz is also an inherently interesting person. The grandson of communists and son of the notorious conservative bomb-thrower David Horowitz, Ben Horowitz is a hip-hop loving businessman who, when I interviewed him earlier this year, proved to be The culture he describes, however, is full of people for whom social repercussions just get in the way. Horowitz’s Silicon Valley is a profane, macho place in which the will to power and success is as crucial to eventual triumph as having a good idea or loading up with a legion of brilliant software developers. With chapters boasting titles such as “Preparing to Fire an Executive” and “Lies that Losers Tell,” As I write these words, my Twitter feed is blowing up with the news that Sony has decided to cancel the release of As of this writing, we don’t have solid proof of who accomplished the hack. North Korea, estranged Sony employees, wanton troublemakers? It’s not clear. But what we do have, thanks to Coleman, is some context. If we want to understand the emerging culture of hacking as a political act, we now have a place to start. Coleman has come under fire from some quarters for what the technology writer Adrian Chen called “But that doesn’t make the book any less essential. What the Sony debacle tells us is that hacking as an act of political or commercial or cultural warfare is a new fact of life that is only getting started. Anonymous represents a very important part of the indigenous emerging culture of a society raised on the Internet. Nobody has studied this culture more intently or gotten closer to it than Coleman. We ignore it at our peril.Follow Backchannel: 20-year veteran of online journalism, formerly a lifer at Salon, now untethered. On Twitter Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

Four minutes into pitching the wonders of his invention to an influential reporter, Patrick Paul gets hit with the kind of snarky comment startup entrepreneurs dread.Paul is the founder of Despite its looks, the Hemingwrite has struck a nerve. The company quickly surpassed its $250,000 crowdfunding goal on At $399 a pop, the Hemingwrite costs much more but does much less than just about every personal technology on the market. But that, according to the company, is exactly the point.By design, the Hemingwrite has no web browsing, no social media functionality, and no apps. The device promises to “set your thoughts free” by reducing distraction and is for people who find it difficult to focus amid all the pings, buzzes, and notifications that come with working on a PC.Paul tells a tech reporter, “With the Hemingwrite, we burn that bridge. There is no way to get on Facebook, Reddit, or Twitter. You can only write.” Then comes the snark. The reporter quickly retorts, “Right, unless you pull your phone out of your pocket.” (Insert Homer Simpson-esque “D’oh!” Maybe the Hemingwrite isn’t for everyone. However, it is an example of a new breed of products designed to help us regain control over digital distractions.To some, the idea of using a dumbed-down word processor is silly. Why buy an expensive box that does less than a PC? The answer for many bleary-eyed workers is: because I need to get stuff done.Jonathan Franzen, the man Franzen’s methods may seem extreme but desperate times call for desperate measures. In the battle for attention, the only solution may be periodic forced amputation from the Net. Franzen is not alone in devising ways to kill distraction.A software developer named Ned Batchelder published The struggle to not do what we ought not to do is nothing new. Thousands of years before Facebook and YouTube, the ancient Greeks used the word “However, what is new about our struggle with distraction today is that we have yet to develop what famed investor Paul Graham calls the “Having Given the growing need, technologies that help people stay focused so they can do the things they really want to do could be a boon for entrepreneurs and investors. These technologies could be the social antibodies we’ve been waiting for.A I’m eagerly awaiting these new technologies that seek to fix the flaws of old technologies. However, like any nascent trend, I anticipate there will be many failures before we’ll see any big successes.The biggest problem with these technologies is that they don’t exhibit many of the important traits found in products that change behavior for good. For one, they’re not fun to use. Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, and Instagram, among other habit-forming technologies, changed users’ daily routines by being inherently enjoyable. I worry many of the products attempting to keep us focused are things people feel they To be clear, my doubts aren’t fatal flaws, just challenges I’m sure smart innovators will overcome. Of course, predicting the market potential of this new breed of products is nearly impossible, but over the next few years I expect to see many more companies emerge to help us live and work better by helping us put technology in its place.Here’s where I need your help …Author of “Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products” and blogger at NirAndFar.comInteresting stuff at the intersection of technology, psychology, and business

This summer, JavaScript Scene conducted a JavaScript tech survey via social media over the course of a few days. Just under 800 people participated. Respondents are all engaged in JavaScript discussions on social media including Twitter, Facebook, and Google+. Most of the respondents came from Twitter. As promised, here are the results:Almost half (45%) currently use Notable “other” responses for the library interest question include About three quarters (76%) are interested in About half of respondents (48%) report using ES6. Many are using ES6 only on the front-end, but nearly 30% report using it with Node as well. Expect ES6 use with Node to grow as more people embrace We asked participants Respondents seem pleased that The future looks bright for This survey was conducted prior to the announcement of Thank you for participating. We’re excited to hear from you again, soon!Compassionate entrepreneur on a mission to end homelessness. #jshomes Javascript, tech education, electronic music, photography, film, viral apps.To submit, tweet your proposal to 

So you want to pitch your startup to the press. You’ve spent weeks, months, years working feverishly on a product that the universe wants, nay needs, to know about. It’s your time to shine, to get the word out about your company and give your mother something tangible to demonstrate that “entrepreneur” isn’t a euphemism for “unemployed,” and that your crazy idea just might be the next big thing.The goal is to distinguish your story from the floods of others and pique a journalists’ interest enough that they want to write the story. A simple, well-crafted pitch makes this so much easier.I recently left my position as the startup reporter for VentureBeat, where I was on the receiving end of countless pitches. I wrote Confessions of an ex-tech journalist to shed a little light onto the experience of writing for a tech blog, as well as stimulate discussion on the beast of Internet journalism.I realized during the writing process and ensuing response how much mystery, confusion, and uncertainty surrounds media outreach. This post aims to offer guidance to startup founders (and anyone else with a story to share) on how to craft a good pitch.The prospect of media outreach is so daunting for many startups that they choose to spend their limited resources on PR firms. I addressed this in my previous post, which unsurprisingly rumpled some feathers in the PR community.For the record, I understand and appreciate the role PR can play. I was only trying to clarify that you do not necessarily need a PR firm to get coverage, and that there are merits to doing outreach yourself.Journalists generally prefer to engage directly with the source for a story. It is far easier to ignore an email from a PR person or firm that has emailed you a dozen times that week, than it is to ignore a direct email from founders. Presenting yourself as an individual, rather than a client on a long list of clients, makes you more memorable.Furthermore, reaching out independently means you have a more direct relationship with the reporter. This can be extremely valuable when you have more news to share down the road, or if you simply want to ask a question, refer a friend’s company, or offer an invitation to an event.All tech writers are not the same. We each have specific “beats” or topics that we frequently cover. If you are building a social app, don’t reach out to the Apple reporter. If your company makes cloud storage products, don’t reach out to the e-commerce writer. You might as well be selling me a taxidermy kit.Spend time on the outlets you are seeking coverage from to see what reporters show a demonstrated interest in your sector. One article does not constitute demonstrated interest. I had to write articles about CRM software if there was a big funding round because I was the go-to deals writer, not because I cared about CRM software.Also find out if anyone in your network is friendly with a writer. Like it or not, personal referrals always carry more weight. If someone I knew sent a startup my way, I was more likely to follow-up, or forward it along to a relevant person on my team.If you don’t have any press contacts, then it is even more important to be thoughtful about who you reach out to. It is a mistake to blitz every single person on the editorial staff desperately hoping someone responds. Our contact information is not hard to come by — my email address was listed publicly on my VentureBeat profile pageAlso, be sure to call the journalist by the right name. Someone would address me by the wrong name or say how much they’d love coverage in [competing outlet] at least once a day.The issue of whether to give an exclusive to one media outlet versus pitching to many is tricky. Reporters love exclusives. At VentureBeat I always paid closer attention, gave higher priority, and spent more time on articles that were exclusive to me. These posts were almost always longer, more contextualized, and told a more in-depth story about the startup.On the other hand, I understand why a startup would be reluctant to give their story to just one outlet. It feels limiting, and your goal may be breadth over depth. There isn’t one right choice, but if you are struggling to get a response from any reporter, consider offering one an exclusive.Most outlets, blog or otherwise, look for newsworthiness when deciding whether to cover a story. Newsworthiness is defined by 5 factors: timing, significance, proximity, prominence, human interest. To quote my Uncle Don — who has been a journalist since the 1980s — “I’d like to suggest that PR folks in the ink-wearing demographic consider getting this tattooed on whichever hand they use to write pitches. It will save us all a lot of time and grief.”Let’s dive a little deeper into what these factors mean.Most of the tech media focuses on breaking news, which means that When you do have news to share, make a case for why it is This ties into A lack of prominence does not mean you can’t get coverage, it just means that people with bigger names are higher up on the priority totem pole.Finally we come to Now that we’ve gone through a little journalism 101, you know what reporters are looking for and can make your pitch into a shining beacon of newsworthiness.I can’t stress enough how important it is to be clear and concise. I had an overwhelming inbox. To open and respond to every email would leave no time to do actual reporting and writing, so I scanned. Emails that seemed irrelevant from the subject line alone were more likely to be ignored. Your subject line should contain the hook, so the reporter immediately knows why it merits attention. It’s kind of like composing a tweet — you try to convey as much information and significance as possible in as few characters.Now onto the email body. I appreciated being addressed by name. It signals that you aren’t spraying and praying with your outreach. Next, give me the gist of the pitch right away. I am only going to continue reading the email if I think there is a possibility I will cover the story. Save the lengthy background saga or extensive description of your technology for later.The pitch should make it clear in a couple short paragraphs what the company does, what news you are sharing, who you are, who you are backed by (if anyone), and what about the pitch makes for a good story. Why should I pursue this story over others? Why will it be interesting to write/read?Answering these questions succinctly is the most effective “strategy” you can have.It was pretty common for people to try and create some sort of bond with me. I joked about this in “Confessions,” but in all seriousness, I am not going to cover your company just because we have a similar interest. Most of the attempts at bonding seemed pretty forced. That said, I did appreciate being treated as a person rather than word machine, so use your judgement. Be conversational. Humor doesn’t hurt either.Jargon is the enemy. We would regularly get pitches that were completely incomprehensible. Speak in English. Use words that someone outside of the tech industry would understand. I adopted the somewhat informal policy of deleting any pitch that had more jargon than actual information. If I can’t understand it, what are the chances a large number of readers will be able to?Now that you have crafted a straightforward, informative, compelling pitch, try to move the conversation forward. Ask if I am available for an interview, and suggest some specific days/times to meet. Scheduling is a pain in the butt, so make it easier. In-person interviews are best, but not always feasible. Next best is phone.Journalists’ schedules fill up pretty fast, so if you want an interview, reach out a week or two in advance. Too much notice can backfire, however. I don’t need to know about your launch two months before it happens.Let’s say that you sent out a pitch and don’t get a response. Then what? This is tricky. There is a fine line between being assertive and aggressive. Persistence is important, but hounding tends to have a counterproductive result.Tuesday through Thursday were our busiest times at VB, and so it was more likely for pitches to be overlooked. An email sent during a slower time — like Mondays, Fridays, or later in the afternoon — may have a better chance of a response. Also be aware of what else is happening in the tech world during that time period. WWDC or Launch are not the best times to be pitching your startup.Wait a day or two before following up again. It drove me nuts when someone followed up within a couple hours for a story that wasn’t breaking. Sometimes I didn’t have time to comb through my email until 10 pm. Be a little patient. If you still don’t hear back after a second follow-up email, recalibrate your approach.You could do everything exactly right, and still might not get a bite. Maybe you are building something I’ve seen a million times before. Maybe what you are building seems useless and obscure. Maybe the product is so boring that I have no desire to dedicate an hour + of my day to learning more. Maybe your company has 16 well-known competitors. Maybe I visit your website and it looks like a 12-year old made it. Maybe your story is outside the scope of our coverage. Maybe I am just to darn busy to pay attention.Reporters want to write big stories, just as investors want to invest in winning companies. I also made this comparison in Confessions, but it bears repeating. If you continuously hit bricks walls with press or VCs, carefully consider why that is. It could be as simple as reframing your pitch, or perhaps the concept itself needs rethinking. Sometimes ideas take a little traction before they are taken seriously.I hope this helps entrepreneurs, as well as journalists who are tired of terrible pitches. Keep in mind that every reporter is different and has a different process — my advice or best practices are not necessarily the same as others. If you have any specific questions, feel free to send an email to -Former writer at VentureBeatHandpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

My taxi pulled up to the hotel. I got out my credit card and prepared to pay for the ride. The journey was pleasant enough but little did I know I was about to encounter a bit of psychological trickery designed to get me to pay more for the lift. Chances are you’re paying more, too.Digital payment systems use subtle tactics to increase tips, and while it’s certainly good for hard-working service workers, it may not be so good for your wallet.A A recent How did tipping increase so dramatically? Clearly the service wasn’t 38 percent better. Patrons didn’t suddenly become more generous. Rather, the higher tipping is a result of a few intriguing design decisions by the payment processor.For one, digital interfaces make it just as easy to tip as to not tip — a marked change from the way we used to pay in the past. When cash was king, anyone not wanting to give a tip could easily leave the money and dash. “Whoops, my bad!” However, with a digital payment system the transaction isn’t complete until the buyer makes an explicit tipping choice. Clicking on the “No Tip” button is suddenly its own decision. This additional step makes all the difference to those who may have previously avoided taking care of their server.Making sure customers don’t forget to tip is certainly a good thing. But there is another subtle nudge that gets those who intend to tip to give even more than they otherwise would.First, users tend to take the Second, offering three choices utilizes the These systems also make it easier for customers to let go of their money. In another sense, they eliminate what Duke Professor Dan Ariely calls the The payment processors have followed in the footsteps of another industry that has effectively reduced the pain of paying — the gambling industry. Step into any casino on the Las Vegas strip and you’ll notice slot machines by and large no longer take cash. To take a spin on a gambling machine today, money must first be loaded onto a loyalty card. As soon as the card is dipped into the machine, it turns into points. Why did the casinos yank the cash out of their slot machines? Simple. They know gamblers will spend more when their money doesn’t feel like money.Similarly, whereas handing over a tip with cash once meant physically feeling the money as it left your wallet, digital payments systems obfuscate the act of paying into something much less tangible. With digital payment systems, customers simply press a few buttons with their finger and the funny money is gone — just like in a casino.Yeung, the Iowa State study author, calls for government action to protect consumers from being taken advantage of by these systems. He states “policy makers should further explore alternative payment interfaces that can balance the convenience of paying and its corresponding spending-regulatory effect.” The issue Yeung raises with these systems is that they make people pay more without realizing it.Certainly, digital payment systems aren’t all bad. For one, they improve customers’ experiences by making transactions easier and faster, eliminating the antiquated card-swiping and pen-signing systems still used by most retailers today. They also give bad tippers and non-tippers an extra nudge to tip properly. Clearly, service workers deserve to be tipped, and tipped well, for a job well done.However, for the average person just trying to do the right thing, these devices can mean hundreds if not thousands of dollars spent unintentionally. As we quickly pay while getting out of a cab, for example, most of us don’t have the time or mental bandwidth to think about how the During these times, our brain is operating Author of “Hooked: How to Build Habit-Forming Products” and blogger at NirAndFar.comInteresting stuff at the intersection of technology, psychology, and business

As a large number of world leaders, corporate and otherwise, gather in Davos to discuss global issues, high on the agenda is the question of automation and artificial intelligence — namely, how they will affect jobs, the economy and humanity in general.The digital revolution has positioned us at the epicentre of change and opportunity. We are surrounded by technology that enables us to do more, with less, for more. I believe this exponentially increases our individual and collective ability to achieve our true potential, and enhances our freedom to evolve.This aspiration to grow and advance is innate to humanity. It is the reason why the digital revolution is so exciting; it gives us the power and freedom to change our circumstances and the world around us. In fact, it has the capacity to catalyse a great human revolution. In the convergence of a host of powerful new technologies and concepts — from artificial intelligence to design thinking, deep analytics to ubiquitous authoring — we will now see ordinary people tapping into their inborn creativity and becoming creators of extraordinary solutions.This freedom to be innovative, to find our own insights and accomplish our goals, has served us well before. Leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi understood its power. Among his many other initiatives, Gandhi encouraged Indians to spin and weave, and wear clothing made from this homespun fabric. He would often be seen in public sitting at the traditional spinning wheel, or Today, computing technology can serve as humanity’s In fact, we have seen technology prove its ability to amplify people and societies time and again. In the years after India’s independence, and throughout the 1950s and 60s, the nation was hit by an acute food shortage. Grains were imported and food rations were the order of the day. Then the Green Revolution changed it all. Professor Norman Borlaug co-developed high-yield disease-resistant wheat varieties, which India was quick to adopt. Indian farmers became more productive and their potential was enhanced by new techniques and know-how. Steadily, India improved its food situation and is today one of the biggest exporters of food. And this incredible transformation, enabled by technology, has taken less than one generation to bear fruit.Technology will help relieve us of the repetitive tasks that can be modelled and precisely formulated to be automated, freeing us to deal with the exceptions, the management and forecasting, looking ahead and around the corners, as well as focusing our energy, imagination and intelligence on the next frontiers: on creativity, innovation and inventing great futures for ourselves and others.Technology, especially computing technology, will provide a halo, a great context around our humanity, which will empower us. The context in which we find ourselves is crucial to the value we are able to deliver. Change the context, and the same person with the same inherent capabilities will often deliver a different result.In summary, the human revolution will be about technology (especially computing technology) and provide a great context for each of us to amplify our potential, enrich our lives, widen our knowledge, expand our freedom, become more human and access the power to create a better future for ourselves.Official live tweet account of the World Economic Forum for key quotes from panels and conversational Twitter chatter #WEF events. We are also tweeting The New Global Context

It’s not the machines we’re really afraid of. So what Quick — why do we have such a complicated relationship with tech? One that’s not easily summed up— but conflicted, torn, fraught, unsure? After all, we love it—while we loathe it. We mock people who use Ubers — but grudgingly call them ourselves. We don’t want to be reduced to objects, numbers, lines of code—perish the thought — but we’re happy if our friends, lovers, and colleagues are. We’re scared that the robots will take our jobs, that we worry that the algorithms will log our every keystroke, that we’re afraid that the machines will police our every carefully guarded thought. But who’s programming the algorithms, being served by the drones, and tapping the screens? We’re not just techno-anxious: we are also vertiginously tantalized, seduced, thrilled, and tempted by the very world of endless easy pleasure the code, the machinery, the mechanism promises.There is more to our deeply conflicted, uneasy, fragile relationship with technology than fear. It’s not accurate to call it “technophobia”. In this little essay, I’m going to describe it as “technophrenia”. I think we’re not just afraid of what the machines might cost us — we’re also afraid of what they might I’m going to advance a simple thesis: the definition of technology has been diluted, diminished, and lessened almost to the point of meaninglessness — and certainly to the point of triviality, pointlessness, and superficiality. And that paradox is what is truly underlies our schizophrenic, conflicted, ambiguous relationship with meta-modern machinery: that we love them as uncertainly as we loathe them. But what about Allow me to explain.Let me use the example of my glasses. They are the simplest piece of technology I own — and yet they are the most transformative. Why?The greatest breakthroughs of the twentieth century were in part technological. Once, technology meant stuff that went to the moon…cured fatal diseases…extended the human lifespan. Salk’s polio vaccine, the moon landings, antibiotics…all these were what technology once referred to. They were miraculous breakthroughs that altered lives, vast explosions of Now, “tech” means something very different: apps that…hails taxis…summon butlers…automatically call dog walkers…gadgets that remind you have a meeting…turn on your thermostat for you…let you stream your favorite show…and so on.It’s not that the latter is bad. But it is a fact that the latter is So how did technology get demeaned to “tech”? I’m going to draw a line between technology — the real thing — and “tech”: its modern-day imitation. In the same that we now eat “food-like products”, and watch “news-like programming”, so too we are presented with “technology-like” things: stuff that isn’t really technological, but merely pretends to be. This is what is popularly called “tech”. But tech is to technology what Doritos are to food: an empty, hollow simulation of the real thing.Technology is transformative because it explodes the limits of Transformation is why technology is so magical, so miraculous. Through it, man can ascend beyond his natural birthright, and give himself rebirth — from a stinking, starving, cunning beast, to a civilized, enlightened, powerful being. All that is contained in the magic of techne. And so the question we must ask is this: does the stuff of the “tech” industry enhance skill…at anything…especially anything worthy? In what sense does it transform not just merely our stuff — but “Tech” is a paradox. For tech itself has demeaned, denigrated, and diluted the very idea of technology — from miracles of skill that alter human destiny, to trivialities that trap us in self-indulgence. But that is not skill — it is merely gratification and vanity. Apps that limit people full of limitless potential…to be…walking apps, libraries of selfies, carefully performed “lifestyle choices”. All those are “tech” — but they’re not Technology, That, I think, is why so many are so afraid of “tech” — but embrace technology. Tech threatens us with a kind of split, between who one could be — and who one is reduced to. Not merely because it might take their jobs, or their careers, or their time. But because it might, with efficiency’s kind smile, erase their dreams and their destinies. And imprison their truest, best selves, in irresistible, glittering cages made of indolence, vanity, and convenience. Cages of which they themselves are the most enthusiastic jailers.Nope. There’s no Matrix, no confederation of the robots, no Skynet. There doesn’t need to be. It’s not the machines that we truly fear. But what the machines might turn The true fear, I think, in technopanic, is this. Not merely that we will become servants of machines. But masters of machines — who, imprisoned in glowing kingdoms of pleasure, as helpless as children, can never cross the desert, climb the mountain, ford the river — and discover their true destiny. Beings who never discover that freedom is not merely supremacy; for the ruler still depends on the ruled. It means independence. Sovereignty. The right to choose to suffer, struggle, dream, imagine, rebel, defy, love, wonder, dare. For the true self cannot be born otherwise.author, economist, slayer of zombies.Essays  by Umair Haque

‘Ask me how many days off I allow myself a year.’My mouth is full of 1986 Chateau Mouton Rothschild. I don’t want to swallow because for most of the rest of my life my mouth won’t be full of 1986 Chateau Mouton Rothschild. It tastes of smoked velvet. A touch of bacon perhaps.‘Are you listening? You’re meant to listen. Ask me how many days off I allow myself a year. And I’m not counting today as a day off because talking to you is a fucking slog.’ He stares. He reaches across the table and makes to punch my chin. I flinch. ‘I’m joking! Lighten up, man. It’s a joke.’ Pause. ‘But ask me how many days I take off a year. Seriously.’I swallow the 1986 Chateau Mouton Rothschild.I’m sitting on the forward deck of the yacht ENERGY, named after Dennis Johnson’s favourite word. Dennis Johnson, by recent estimates, is the 224th richest person in the world. Nobody knows how he amassed his wealth, somewhere around the eight billion dollar mark, but it’s something to do with ‘venture capital’. He describes himself as a ‘techvestor’.And I’m here to learn how to become a billionaire.‘I’m a techvestor,’ he says. Repeatedly. ‘Name a tech company, I own a share.’‘Google,’ I say.‘Not Google. Another.’This continues until I name one he part-owns.‘You know eUrologist?’ he asks. ‘The app where you input the colour and regularity of your piss and it uses the data to predict the future?’ I tell him that I was a regular user until it reported I’d die of heart inflammation at the age of 43. ‘I provided the seed money when everybody else thought the idea a piss-take. Literally. Now, I could buy myself a brand new urinary system with the return already. A bladder made of solid gold. Your piss would come out glistening. Pissing gold.’We are not at sea. Nor are we at anchor. The yacht is installed in the grounds of his Maine holiday home, resting on huge fibreglass blocks that have Johnson’s unsmiling face and the word ENERGY laser-stencilled across their surface. Although the great man suffers from seasickness, he loves to eat lunch on the ENERGY’s deck. To a man as visionary, and rich, as Johnson, installing a scaffold to secure a yacht in his garden is nothing. He’s solutions-oriented. That the boat makes the grounds of his house appear like the set of an apocalyptic, post-global-warning horror film is of no concern.I ask Johnson how many days off he takes a year.‘None,’ he says. ‘And that’s what it means to work hard. People think working hard is getting to their shitty office twenty minutes before everybody else. Not true. You want to celebrate Xmas with your family? Fair enough. But forget becoming a billionaire. New Year’s Eve? While you lot with your two-door Eastern European cars are getting hammered, I’m studying the markets. I can’t even remember when my birthday is. Which is great, because it means I’ve been 35 for fucking years.’He pulls his lips across his teeth, as white as the white in a paint catalogue, and laughs violently.‘You’re looking at her breasts, aren’t you?’I pretend not to hear. I draw a sad face in my Moleskine. This face represents all the notes I have taken so far. I’m shafted if Johnson asks to see what I’ve written. His wife has joined us at the luncheon table (Johnson insists on calling the meal ‘luncheon’) on the ENERGY’s deck. Even though the day is jacket-wearing overcast, she is wearing a black bikini. She has breasts and there is a metallic quality to the way the golden muscles of her stomach stretch as she puts her arm around Johnson’s shoulders. I expect her to say something. She does not.Looking at my notebook, I say ‘Do you enjoy …’, not knowing how the sentence will end.‘Mrs Johnson doesn’t talk,’ says Johnson. ‘Part of our pre-nup. I’m happy for her to speak when she’s off duty. She can do all that crap as much as she likes when I’m away. I’m not a monster.’‘Isn’t that …’ I try …‘And it’s not because she’s a woman. I don’t give a shit. I made my first million with a woman. No. Some men worry that their wives only love them for the money. I I write ‘not a Picasso’ in my notebook, under the sad face. I ask Johnson’s wife her name. She stares through me. Not smiling. Something like a bull staring down a matador. I blink back down to my notebook.‘You want to look at Mrs Johnson’s breasts, you look at Mrs Johnson’s breasts. Why? Because you should be a bastard. In all things. Just do the fuck you want. I didn’t become a billionaire techvestor by being nice to people. By respecting people. You! A journalist! I bet even you’ve had to fuck over people to get paid to write. Even you. A journalist. What’s the worst thing you’ve ever done? Worse than drawing up a contract to prevent your wife from talking to you, I’ll bet. Literally. I’ll bet you a thousand dollars.’Even though I’ve caught his eye and he’s staring directly at me and asking me a direct question, I don’t compute that he’s actually talking to me. A moment of silence.‘Hello?’ he says, turns to Mrs Johnson, laughs. She laughs. It’s a much deeper noise than you’d imagine. A bit like a choking sound. Or the fan of an overworked computer.‘I made up a blog about a dog,’ I say. Johnson nods. ‘A sick dog.’ Johnson continues to nod. ‘I thought a sick dog would attract hits. But it was too convincing. Somebody set up a charity page for the dog. A Twitter account was created. I ended up having to pick up a stray and shave off half its coat to match my story.’(As a young man, I was desperate for strangers to read my non-fiction.)‘Good work,’ says Johnson. ‘You’ve got to be a bastard, man.’ He turns to his wife. ‘Isn’t that right, babe? Lesson number two. Be an absolute bastard. Like Hitler. What a bastard. An uber-bastard. But he got results.’Mrs Johnson nods. I glance at her breasts. Johnson smiles his approval.‘Take this man. The dick clearing away our plates. What’s your name? Geoff? Is your name Geoff?’Mrs Johnson has disappeared. In her place — a waiter, wearing a crisp white uniform. At Johnson’s question, the waiter’s face fades to match his shirt’s colour. He points a finger to his chest, not daring to speak, thinking it more likely that he’s misunderstood the situation rather than is being asked to speak.‘Sir?’ he dares, his lips trembling.Johnson rolls his eyes.‘I asked your name, Geoff. Quit acting weird in front of the writer. He’ll write about you being a freak. You wouldn’t want that, believe you me. Once something’s written, it can’t be unwritten.’The waiter looks to me as if apportioning blame.‘Ted,’ he says. ‘I’m called Ted.’A further noise emerges, his surname probably, but Dennis speaks.‘Whatever. Ted here’s never going to be the best waiter in the world, putting aside the fact that even the very best waiter in the world, the one with all the pouring skills and what not, is never going to be able to afford a yacht half the size of ENERGY, because Ted’s never going to be the best waiter in the world because Ted’s not got the talent. Tell him what happened last April, Geoff.’Ted’s face fell. Like he’s just been told he’s going to die in his forties of heart problems.‘Mr Johnson’s fork was unclean.’‘My fork was unclean. Big fucking bollock globules of grease. I didn’t make a big deal about it. I’m not that guy.’ An almost imperceptible release of air from Ted’s mouth. ‘I’m not a monster. But it struck me that if I were a waiter, if I were Ted or Geoff or whatever, God forbid, I’d not be handing over dirty cutlery. I didn’t get a beautiful wife with huge breasts and the ENERGY and journalists wanting to interview me and a new nose at the age of 45 by handing over dirty cutlery. Quite the fucking reverse.’I lifted a glass of water and muttered something about Dennis’ unpleasant attitude to women. Fortunately, he didn’t hear.‘Name a job,’ says Johnson. ‘Any job. Be inventive.’‘Goat farmer.’‘Spot on. If I were a goat farmer, I’d fucking spend three months solid reading up on goats and how best to fucking get them …’ His voice fades. For the first time, his confidence slips. ‘Why do people farm goats?’‘For cashmere?’ I suggest.‘They eat them in Jamaica,’ says Ted. Johnson looks to him. Ted, squirming, says ‘sorry’ in a tiny voice.‘Yeah, so be better than even the best you can be, that’s what I’m saying,’ says Johnson.Before disembarking (via a ladder down to the lawn), Johnson got Ted to give me a present. It was wrapped in crepe paper. Clearly clothing, I wondered if it might be an expensive shirt. I could do with an expensive shirt. Pulling back the paper, I could see that it was a t-shirt. Johnson encourage me to unfold it, to lift it up.‘I’ve eaten lunch on the’ was printed underneath the collar. Underneath this, an acrostic, spelling out the yacht’s name:As I thanked him, Johnson shook my hand long and hard, as if the tighter he squeezed, the more I’d be convinced of his singular excellence.‘Energy, motherfucker!’ he shouted as I stepped down the ladder from the yacht. ‘Remember that. Like the yacht. And wear your t-shirt, man!’Was there a trace of doubt to his voice? A quiver?Not even a little bit.Buoyed up by knowledge of my greatness, indulged by waiters, favoured by the women in the market and adored by passers-by.

Freedom as the cracked screen of your iPhone 6 shows it’s 0901 and you escape the tyrannical hope that you may still make it to the office on time. The phone’s faux-Lego case is blocky in your hand and, at this moment of release, it cruelly vibrates an email notification.Henry — the end-of-game boss, the BFD (big fucking deal). The word ‘fuck’ hisses from your mouth. A crossed-eyed man turns around.‘Sorry, bro,’ you say.Was he crossed-eyed before he’d heard you swear? Had your ‘fuck’ caused him to turn cross-eyed? Is it now a permanent affliction? And what’s a casual dinner? A finger buffet? A naked BBQ? Why was it sent a minute after nine? You’re going to be fired. For being late. Your bowels know it. He’d called you ‘Tom’.‘Don’t “bro” me, bro,’ says the cross-eyed man.‘It’s just that the 22A had to take a diversion and there was a Wendy holds up a silencing hand. She looks like a white woman impersonating a Native American — ‘how’.‘We don’t have set shift times, Tom. We’re not one of those firms. We’re not a 50s bank, buddy! You know that. You’ll just have to get here twenty-eight minutes earlier tomorrow. I’m joking but seriously. No …’ She lifts her iPhone 6 half-an-inch from her eyes and swipes its screen. Repeatedly. Is she on Tinder? (She often is.) Have you now been disciplined? Is she done? Slowly, you rotate your chair back to the workstation. ‘… it’s your Twitter, pal.’ You swing back. ‘You’ve not been tweeting enough. Like your last tweet was two days ago.’ She shoves her phone in your face. You flinch. She laughs, sounding like a sack of rocks thrown into a reservoir. Your tweet — ‘travelling on buses sucks’. You nod. ‘You should Tweet more often. Like really. It’s good for your profile around here. Active Tweeter, you know? That’s the type of firm we are! And also you signed a social media policy as part of your contract, so …’‘I’ll tweet more often,’ you say, and almost believe it. Wendy crunches her face in an approximation of a smile.You return to the workstation. You tweet — There come no retweets, no favourites.A second email from Henry. Addressed to the whole staff and less chatty.The Reading Room’s on the same floor as Henry’s 1930s Hollywood exec office. The Reading Room’s walls are lined with empty shelves. There was an email competition to suggest which books should fill them, but only an Ayn Rand nut replied and the shelves have since stood empty.Mike stands at your shoulder and you hope he didn’t seen you jump.‘We can’t talk here,’ he whispers. ‘The workstations are listening. Meeting room in five.’In five minutes, you lock your workstation and wander through to the toilets. The space is empty. The sharp smell of bleach. One cubicle is locked. You hesitate, worrying what people, in particular the person in the cubicle, might think if you knock and say ‘Mike?’ and it’s not Mike. You clear your throat.‘Quit pussying around and come next to me,’ says Mike from the locked cubicle.You lock the door and sit down. Has he heard rumours of your impending dismissal? Is that why he wants to chat? You’ve just upgraded your home internet provision — how will you cope without a salary?‘So …’ you say.‘We can’t believe you tweeted that,’ he says.‘Tweeted what? Who’s we?’‘Monday morning. And the sad face. You’re treading on thin ice, Tom.’‘It’s not a sad face. It’s a slanty mouth. I never said I was sad. I am, but — ’‘A slanty mouth is worse. It means you hate Mondays.’‘No, it doesn’t. It means like disgruntlement. Ennui.’‘Anyway, Wendy doesn’t like emoticons, so — ’There came a splash of toilet water.‘Are you taking a crap, Mike?’‘Multi-tasking, buddy.’The toilet flushes. The smell of Mike.At the sinks, you vigorously soap and tell Mike about the casual dinner email. He looks at you through the mirror.‘Maybe that’s what tonight’s meeting’s about. Redundancy. You get a nice meal as compensation. Heard it done before. Yep, you’re out of here. Sucks to be you.’‘They don’t make redundancies in tech,’ you say but your voice wavers.You return to your desk to delete your slanty mouth tweet.‘I had Somalian tapas. My date was a man with no eyebrows. It was awesome.’Helen is describing a new dating app for which she’s part of the beta trial. You listen as you fork at salad leaves (lunch). She explains that you log-in with your Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn and it compiles all the information and not only matches you with another user but picks out a perfect place to eat too.‘This Chicken Caesar Salad has no chicken and even less Caesar,’ you say. ‘It’s a fucking nightmare.’ The table doesn’t laugh. Instead, Helen chucks her iPhone 6 at you. You drop your fork and manage to catch it. Helen’s the type to get self-righteous and pissy if her phone got damaged after she’d thrown it at you.‘Log-in, Tom. Get a match-up for free. I’d love to know who you’d get paired with. This could be the start of something beautiful.’The table laughs. Even Mike.‘No,’ you say, but already the collective strength of your colleagues’ stares have you entering your social media log-in details.With suspicious alacrity, the app displays two circular icons. One is of an Italian-looking man, leaning against a motorbike. Underneath this image is the name ‘Franky’. The second icon is a cartoon chicken, its accompanying text is ‘Louisiana Chicken Shack’.‘I don’t understand,’ you say as Helen reaches across the table for her phone. ‘Something’s gone wrong.’‘Interesting,’ she says, studying the results. ‘You’ve been paired with Franky and a fried-chicken restaurant.’‘I’m not gay,’ you say.‘Your social media says otherwise.’‘I’m not gay,’ you say.Helen asks you what your problem with homosexuals is. Mike asks if you like fried chicken.You stand from the table, Chicken Caesar abandoned.‘I’ve got to go tweet,’ you say — your mood is accompanied by croutons of anger.You continue to run lines of code. You’d received an email three weeks ago from the chief engineer saying there was a problem hidden within these lines. The programmer had been circumspect about what the actual problem was, something to do with rectangles, you think. Subsequent emails to the chief engineer were not answered.Wendy’s face appears in a small window at the top left of your workstation screen. You know you’re in trouble. It’s company policy to administer disciplinary process through technology. Such chats are rumoured to be recorded.‘Hi, Tom,’ she says. Before you reply, she asks why you think she’s calling. She’s not looking at the camera directly. This makes her appear cross-eyed. You think back to the bus. ‘Sarcasm,’ she says. ‘I hate it. It causes friction. This firm doesn’t like fiction.’ Pause. You say you don’t know what she’s talking about. You speak quietly, so neighbouring workstations don’t figure out that you’re being discipiined. ‘Are you being sarcastic You open Twitter. You delete the ‘Monday afternoon — :)’ tweet. You’d already deleted the ‘Monday morning :/’ tweet.An instant message appears from Wendy –Henry stands on a desk. You’ve been instructed to stand at the front of the room, so you look up his nose. Before he’d appeared, a 50s stage magician, there’d been whispers of buy-outs. You’d heard Mike’s mosquito voice — he was talking about how you were getting fired for always being late.‘This morning twenty of you will have received an email. From me. The recipient list was a random selection from all parts of our family. These twenty have been invited to a casual dinner chez Henry. I hope to think that I will be able to invite all of you to my house in time. Why? Because I want to get to know the staff better. That’s it. Also — an audit of our management process suggested this and I think it’s a great idea.’Henry asks for questions in such a way that nobody asks a question. There are many hairs up Henry’s nostrils.You find yourself next to Mike and Helen.‘You’ve not been sacked, then,’ says Helen. ‘Mike was sure of it.’ Mike nods. ‘We’re going to swing by the cereal café for dinner if, you know, you’re not off with Frank.’ Mike sniggers. You look at him. He continues to snigger.‘They’ve got genuine 1980s Lucky Charms in,’ says Mike, sniggering.‘You’re idiots,’ you tell them. ‘I’m going home.’You play You delete the email. You turn back to Buoyed up by knowledge of my greatness, indulged by waiters, favoured by the women in the market and adored by passers-by.We publish informed perspectives on fringe topics and add outside narratives to perennial stories — voices worth hearing. Pitches: j.mp/pitch-absurdist

Product Designer @ AOL Alpha. Ex-lab geek. Cheese lover.Your Stories and Ideas

I first learned of Pablo Garcia’s 39-fold overdose of an antibiotic at a meeting at my hospital, held on July 26, 2013, a few weeks after the error itself. When I heard that the inciting event was a simple oversight, I was concerned, but not overly so.A physician had placed an electronic order for Pablo’s antibiotic, Septra, but had failed to notice that the order screen was set to calculate the amount of drug based on the weight of the patient, not to accept the total milligrams intended for the whole dose. The software was set to expect a dose in mg/kg, but the doctor assumed it was set for mg. So when the clinician entered the total dose, 160, the computer multipled that dose by Pablo’s weight.This kind of simple oversight is all too familiar to me, both as a clinician and a student of patient safety. Surely, I thought, as the facts of the case began to unspool at the meeting, the combination of smart people and modern technology would catch the problem before it reached the patient, making it a near miss.But it was soon clear that no person — and no computer — had made such a catch. First, the doctor bypassed the computerized alert. Then the pharmacist missed the error and a different alert. Uh oh. And then the pharmacy robot dutifully fetched more than three dozen pills. Finally came the denouement: a young nurse, working on an unfamiliar floor, too busy and intimidated to speak up and falsely reassured by the dazzling technology, actually gave a 16-year-old boy 38½ pills rather than the single tablet he was supposed to get.It was then that I knew I needed to Root cause analysis, or RCA, is the technique we use to analyze errors in healthcare deeply. Although RCAs have been been a staple of industries such as commercial aviation (it’s what National Transportation Safety Board investigators do after a plane crash) and the military for generations, we in medicine have only been conducting them for the past 15 years or so.In keeping with James Reason’s These layers all have inevitable gaps, which remind him of stacked slices of Swiss cheese. Because breaches of these layers create the risk — whether it’s a crashing plane, a nuclear power plant meltdown, the failure to catch 19 terrorists in the days before 9/11, or a medical mistake — the goal of a safety program is to prevent the holes in the cheese from lining up.After sitting through a few RCAs, people tend to gravitate to a favorite fix. Some see most medical errors as communication problems, which leads them to suggest changes that will improve teamwork and information exchange. Others focus on the workforce — they typically feel that overwhelmed, or distracted, or tired clinicians are at the root of many errors. Still others see problems as failures of leadership, or of training.Take the problem of an error due to a doctor’s indecipherable handwriting. The solution seemed obvious: computerized prescribing. An error due to a mistaken decimal point or mg vs. mg/kg dosing mix-up: computerized alerts. An error due to the nurse giving the wrong medication to a patient: bar coding.Though computers certainly The error that nearly killed Pablo Garcia illustrates the double-edged sword of healthcare IT. It also demonstrates that — even in errors that primarily relate to computerized systems and human-technology interfaces — the solutions need to be broadly based, addressing several different layers of Swiss cheese. Finally, it shows us how hard it is to fix even seemingly easy problems in healthcare when they relate to technology.The RCA in the Pablo Garcia case did identify many problems with the system, and over the subsequent months, UCSF Medical Center set out to address them. One thing we did We began to scrutinize some of the system problems that we felt were responsible for the error. We re-examined the policy that mandated that Pablo Garcia’s dose be written in milligrams per kilograms, instead of the “one double strength twice daily” that his physician knew he had been on for years. Since that fix only involved a revision of a policy, it was remedied quickly — clinicians no longer are required to use weight-based dosing when they At one of many discussions, someone said, “I think we need to build in just one more alert here.” I was aghast. “To tackle this one, we formed a committee to review all of our alerts, pruning them one by one. This is painstaking work, the digital equivalent of weeding the lawn, and even after two years, we have succeeded in removing only about 30 percent of the alerts from the system. Making a bigger dent in the alert problem is going to require more sophisticated analytics that can signal, in real time, that We’ve changed other things, too. Our computerized prescribing system will now block any effort to prescribe more than nine pills in a single dose. As with so many of the solutions, creating “hard stops” like this seems like a no-brainer, yet proved to be surprisingly complex. What if a patient is on 20 mg of morphine and the pharmacy is out of 10 mg pills, with only 2 mg pills in stock? The 9-pill maximum solution — the only fix that was technically feasible within Epic — would block the computer from dispensing ten 2-mg morphine tablets, perhaps forcing a patient to wait in pain while the physician or pharmacist jumped through bureaucratic hoops to override the block.But not every problem can be fixed in-house. Some issues can only be fixed by outside software engineers — in our case, the ones sitting at Epic’s massive headquarters in Verona, Wisconsin. Even then, the company only makes such revisions available to all of their clients in the course of periodic software updates, which come perhaps once or twice a year. Because most health IT systems are not cloud-based, they lack the ability to push out a rapid update, the way we’re all used to doing on our smartphones and tablets.There have been calls for a national clearinghouse for IT-related safety issues, and this seems like a good idea to me. Such a clearinghouse would at least offer a fighting chance that someone will identify a pattern of computer-related errors and that the users and vendors are aware of it. But such a central repository will need to have some teeth if it is to be effective.The technology fixes are important. But preventing the next Septra overdose will take efforts that focus on problems far beyond the technology itself, on the other layers of Swiss cheese. For example, the error by the pharmacist owed, at least in part, to the conditions in the satellite pharmacy, including the cramped space and frequent distractions. The satellite pharmacists now work in a better space, and there have been efforts to protect the pharmacist who is managing the alerts from answering the phone and the door.We also needed to address another problem that is not limited to healthcare: overtrust in the technology. As Captain Sullenberger, the “Miracle on the Hudson” pilot, told me, aviation faces a similar need to balance trust in the machine and human instinct. The fact that today’s cockpit technology is so reliable means that pilots tend to defer to the computer. “But we need to be capable of independent critical thought,” Sully said. “We need to do reasonableness tests on whatever the situation is. You know, is that enough fuel for this flight? Does the airplane really weigh that much, or is it more or less? Are these takeoff speeds reasonable for this weight on this runway? Everything should make sense.”Safe organizations relentlessly promote a “stop the line” culture, in which every employee knows that she must speak up — not only when she’s sure that something is wrong, but also when she’sHow will an organization know when it has created such a culture? My test involves the following scenario: A young nurse, not unlike Brooke Levitt, sees a medication order that makes her uncomfortable, but she can’t quite pinpoint the reason. She feels the pressure to, as the Nike ad goes, “just do it,” but she trusts her instinct and chooses to stop the line, despite the computer’s “You’re 30 Minutes Late” flag, her own concerns about “bothering” her supervisor, or perhaps even waking an on-call doctor. And here’s the rub: the medication order was actually correct.Unless the organization is fully supportive of The importance of speaking up extends beyond the recognition of individual errors to more general complaints about the design of the software. If front-line clinicians are ostracized, marginalized or dismissed as Luddites when they speak up about technology-related hazards, progress will remain sluggish. Similarly, if hospitals remain quiet about cases such as the Septra overdose, we are doomed to keep repeating the same mistakes. As you might guess, silence is the way such errors are usually handled, for all sorts of reasons: fear of lawsuits, worry about reputation, plain old shame.After hearing about this case, I asked the senior leaders at UCSF Medical Center for permission to write about it, and to approach the involved clinicians as well as Pablo Garcia and his mother. Quite understandably, many people were reluctant at first to air the case. Sure, let’s discuss it in our own meetings, maybe even present it at a grand rounds or two. But going public — well, that would just be inviting trouble, from regulators, lawyers, the software vendor, the University’s regents — to say nothing of the impact on our reputation.On December 11, 2013, we were discussing the case at a safety meeting at UCSF. I presented some of my recommendations, as did many of the hospital’s leaders. I had made my request to use the case in my book, but I hadn’t yet heard back, and assumed it was making its way through the various layers of the organization. As it happened, the final arbiter — medical center CEO Mark Laret — was sitting across the table from me.Laret’s job is exquisitely tough, and politically charged: to ensure the 8,000 employees of the massive health system deliver safe, high quality, satisfying care during nearly 1 million patient encounters each year — while dealing effectively with unions, donors, newspaper reporters, and managing the odd Ebola outbreak or scandal that inevitably pops up from time to time. Running the $2 billion operation is a daily tightrope act, and Laret is superb at it.The average longevity of hospital CEOs is a few years, but Laret has been in his position for 15, and that takes a level of political acuity — and risk aversion — that made me worry that he would say no to my request. As I was thinking all of this, my iPhone buzzed. It was an email from Laret. I looked up at him, and ever so briefly we made eye contact. Then I looked at my phone, and read his note: “I agree that this really needs to be published.”Illustrated by UCSF MD/writer/blogger/speaker...Analyzing healthcare in lively, iconoclastic,  humorous ways. New book: The Digital Doctor: Hope, Hype, and Harm…now availableMining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

For three years, the company I co-founded, For the comedians, they get to see a joke idea come to life and become something the world can interact with. For the tech crowd, they get to use their super powers for something a bit more creative and fun than database optimization and corporate intranet design. Meanwhile the public gets a window into that which ails our startup culture and technology-mediated lives.What the outside world gets to see from this event has so far been limited to:But the more we’ve traveled with this peculiar circus, the more we’ve learned not just from the hacks that get made but also from the ideas that are pitched but never get made.Last night at General Assembly in NYC, participants pitched a record 147 ideas. Roughly 85 people showed up to participate, and 65 of them proposed ideas from the stage (35 men, 30 women) before breaking down into groups that will only build a small fraction of those. I spent some time categorizing the ideas, and here is how they look from most to least popular.Clearly that is hard to read, but let me focus on the top of the chart.Products that addressing social interactions were the most popular, with over 30 promising to help you perform better, understand better, or completely avoid social interactions.Some examples:Related to social interaction improvement is a category of ideas that promised to increase your social status. The proposed services offered to make you look:Given the age range of our participants (largely 20s and 30s), social media products featured prominently in the ideas. What they say about our attitudes toward this ubiquitous medium is that we want help avoiding offending people, filtering our experiences, and building bots to auto-respond on our behalf (because bots scale). Here are a few:The way we make and consume news is changing as evidenced by everything happening everywhere all the time. The two big themes were to a) give us the appearance of understanding the news (And that, in a nutshell, is the state of the news business!I suspect when we do our Los Angeles hackathon in August, we’ll have an even higher quantity of election-related pitches and could possibly add an all-politics themed Comedy Hack Day for 2016. I consider these ideas from last night a teaser for what may come:Finally, I don’t know that any of the following pitches makes a grand statement about society, but they’re so funny or weird, I want to include them.The things we laugh at and satirize often reveal some deeper truth about what’s happening in our world. According to the view from Comedy Hack Day, we are obsessed with our social positions, drowning in superficial connections, fearful of being judged by what we say digitally, and willing to use the giant cheat code that is tech to help us through it all.If you’re reading this before 6pm ET on Sunday May 17th, and you’re within 30 minutes of New York City, You know what? I’m just gonna dump the entire list in here for you because my 3am fake statistical analysis can’t fully represent the range of awesome things people dream upWho Holds Power:Stop Picking Your Face:Acknowledge:Feminize It:Gentrification Calculator:Alternative Mint:ManSplainr:Mail Kimp:Networking Gun:Hi Mom:You Okay?:Thanks Pic:Pic Blast:BYObnb:Hot When Younger? :Sinterest:Auto-Call :Conversation Starter:Guilt Trip:Treester ( Spoil Sync:Got this thing:Blackup:DVR For Twitter:FuckingDo.It:Truth About Train Service:Weather App For Shaving Season:Social Voice Assist:SubUBERmom:Shower.with:Head Space:Pizza Blaster:Unhappy Birthday:FOMO Fighter:Print A Site:Pedalphile:Homeless subway man:Oh Hot Damn, This is my jam:Trivia for Uber drivers:Missing Connections:Triggler:Farewell.io:Am I Right:On The Job:Instagram for Shouting:Social singularity:political makeover:Beg Like A Politician:Gaffe Keyboard:Filter:Think piece generator:Shoulda:Drone Glitter Bomb:Dollars-to-Burrito Converter:Mobify Photos:High Times URL Shortener:Fake Activity on Slack:Charge for Distraction:Opinions Based On Trends:Cool Foursquare:Workout Lie:Objective Answers:Buzzfeed It:Email Reinfocement:Email SMS Prank:Tindr For Things:Too Soon No More:Ear Worm:Calendar Help You Avoid People:You should… :Seahorse.io:Who Is To Blame:Backstory:Apt Match Making:People You May Not Know:Eggcorn Bot:SMH.io:Wearable Awkwardness Alert:Lanfill:TakeOut Roulette:Boku:AttaBoy/Girl:Fake:Potluck:Humble Brag:Isms:Been Seen That:Woman or Man:Web MD Comfort:Earth Humor App:digital-analog holistic voting experience:Insert Pop Culture into politics:Push notiffication for fake things:Waste The TIme Wasters’s Time:Slack Jacker:Bad Bandmates:Get fit or die trying :Roommate Chores:Shazam Bird Sounds:Inaccurate Search Engine — Dafuck:Not-to-do list:Lady Internet:Are You Ok?:Add Apple Watch:News Translator:My Icon:Therapy SMS:Asshole API:Enemy E Cards:Standup Been Done:Cat POV News:Current Events Quiz:Therapy list. :body language app:PeePogs:Just my 2 cents:presidential candidate troller:who wrote this headline:Im Not Racist:We Ho:Racebook:Dicking Around:Text to Emoji:Painting with Googly eyes:Hit Points:Look UP:Face Place:FOMO App:Bulk Book Plot Summaries:Spoilers Revenge:Thirst Bot:Cast Away:WWACD:Hot Or Not Or Not:has a drone:Pimp My Life:block your heartbreak:Cultural reference drop:Lineup:Stereotype Yourself:Flash Porn:Google Maps For PArents:Phone Use You:Filter Out Better People:Codery:Did You Mean Google:Go Away:supervising producer We make fun.

I quit my job. Actually, scratch that, I resigned from my job. No, that makes it sound like I’m a politician involved in a scandal or something. Hmm…ah, yes, got it.I put in my notice at my job.For almost three years, I worked for a company called Those that know me well are aware of my love of technology products. If the fact that I’m user #208 on As you can see, I’m an early-stage mobile app startup’s dream. I’ll try any product that looks remotely interesting, cool, or useful (is it still cool to say cool?). I enjoy studying and learning about products and more generally being in the know about the cutting edge of technology.So, with all that in mind and a little nudge from my friend and Product Hunt founder Like everything else in life, the path to Tradecraft wasn’t a straight line.It all started with a Below are a couple of excerpts from a piece I wrote about my LSM experiences called In between the two LSM events, I attended many networking events in San Francisco and joined the site FounderDating.The conversations I had at networking events and meeting up for coffee or beers with those I met on FounderDating were all invaluable. They helped me refine my idea and how I pitched it, as well as realize how difficult it is to find the elusive technical cofounder when not living and working in the tech industry in San Francisco. I think it’s possible to start a tech company elsewhere, but it has become obvious to me that it’s more of an uphill battle than if you’re based in SF.While I love the concept of FounderDating, I don’t think it’s the right approach for me right now. I met some great people through the site that I will continue to stay in contact with, but I realized I’m not quite ready to pursue my own idea yet.The next approach I tried was to apply for some open positions at startups in SF that looked interesting to me. I applied to at least 30 different companies from early stage to more established and didn’t get one single interview! That shocked me. I figured if I were a software engineer I might have gotten an interview at every single one! When you’re a business-side person with more soft skills than hard, it’s about who you know and what you’ve done in the past. Without any previous tech experience, beyond a short-lived startup nobody has heard of, I needed a little boost.No, I didn’t consider joining the military. Instead, I started looking into developer bootcamp programs such as App Academy, Hack Reactor, and Dev Bootcamp. The stats they promote are insane; 95%+ job placement success rates and students getting jobs that pay $90K+ per year right out of the gate. I applied to a couple programs and did the Ruby programming pre-work. The pre-work gave me a whole new perspective on programming and even more respect than I already had for those doing it for a living.I loved Chris Pine’s description of programming in his book Programming is like learning a new language and it changes how you think through a problem because you have to account for every possible outcome. I can’t imagine how complicated some software projects can get.I remember when I joined Twitter back in March of 2010 (back then I wasn’t exactly the early adopter I am now). I joined it because I didn’t want to be that person who said, “I don’t get Twitter. What’s the point?”Well, fast-forward to today and Twitter is my go-to networking tool. It’s absolutely amazing when it comes to searching for and getting in touch with people, especially people in tech.I was checking out Twitter in mid-March when I noticed Ryan’s Twitter bio says he’s the EIR (entrepreneur in residence) at Tradecraft. I remembered stumbling onto the Tradecraft website prior to then, but had forgotten all about it.Initially, I was concerned about the newness of the Tradecraft program. So I setup a meeting with Ryan to talk about it and ask some questions. I drove down and met him at the Tradecraft office in the Financial District in SF. After a quick tour, we sat down and chatted about the program. I asked him a bunch of questions I had and he was more than happy to answer. I also had a chance to meet one of the founders, As I drove home, I thought about what I learned during the meeting. I shot a direct message to Ryan on Twitter to thank him and he promptly told me he learned that the next cohort, which was starting only four weeks later, was already half full! My girlfriend, Allison, and I talked about the possibility of joining the program since moving to SF is obviously a huge decision for myself and for our relationship. With her support, I decided to take a chance and apply that evening.They offer three tracks at Tradecraft, Sales/Business Development, Growth, and UX Design. I decided to pursue the growth track since I already have sales experience and the growth track will provide me with more of the hard skills I’m lacking.By the middle of the following week after speaking with Misha and I am incredibly thankful to everyone who has helped me get to Tradecraft and to those that will support me while I’m going through the program.…looks bright!Growth Marketer at 

As a PR is a young person’s game. It’s simply unseemly for a fully formed grown-up. Especially one who’s had enough kids that Ally McBeal length skirts are no longer an option.Not that I have regrets. When I was in my 20s, I got to live the dream — the first big bubble with all its brightly colored parties, its scores of pubescent CEOs, parties at Elroys and Vegas, trade shows in London and New York, press events that were really just more parties. IPOs. Swag galore. Cosmos. Company orientations where people would share their dreams and actually cry. Press tours where you went on a plane instead of turning on your computer. Lots of swearing. Lots of drinking. Lots of money.Then it all went to hell. But it came back. And, even though I’m 44, I’m still here. I’m working in a work-share space in San Francisco. It has exposed brick. It has your choice of Apple TV or Chromecast. It has free Kind bars. It has humans young enough to be my children if my 20s had been spent in middle America instead of the middle of Silicon Valley.So what’s it like to be an old lady doing tech PR? Gather around all you 20-somethings with your artisanal, hand-crafted coffee. Let me tell you the cautionary tale (and explain to you just who Ally McBeal is as I sip on my Starbucks latte).These three things said to me just the last week explain everything:Said to me by someone who is at best 26. Someone who has already transitioned from PR to marketing. Someone who sees cosmic shifts in how PR was done “back in the day” to now. Someone young enough to not quite get the fact it all boils down to the same thing: Sure, reporters like Twitter now but “back in the day” you had to get your point across in phone conversations which were often shorter (and more hostile) than a Donald Trump insult tweet. And we had Steve Jobs. Boo-yah.Unfortunately, this was not a conversation with a 26-year-old. This was a conversation with a fifty-something colleague. The necklace in question was supposed to make a fun statement and draw attention to my neck, perhaps the only part of my body not ravaged by children. Clearly not doing the job.Yup, this one is from the 26-year-old. I nodded and played along. But my mind screamed So, what’s there for me to do? Write that book I promised to write 20 years ago? It’s done — if you want to read it, let me know. Retire? Wish I could but I didn’t quite play that first boom completely right.So I guess I’ll just hang out and enjoy the view. The kids are, I’m happy to say, all right. They still invite me to foozball tournaments. They don’t seem to mind that I can’t help but open their water bottles for them. They listen to my advice about relationships in a way I suspect my own children soon won’t. I get to concentrate on the work without worrying about where I’ll end up when I’m 40.Maybe being an old lady in tech isn’t so bad. The Valley is abuzz with the lack of women and I can testify to that. And the ladies I know who are still in the game with me are the best and brightest I know.Coffeelicious on Mother. Silicon Valley starter-upper. Champion roller skater. Tone deaf but enthusiastic singer. For a good time Twitter Home to some of the best stories on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.

A LAY PERSON’S GUIDE TO BASELINE PRIVACYInflammatory articles about a divisive tech culture critic were written and broadcast this past January. They marked the beginning of a shit-storm that included the publication of sensitive information about the critic (This episode led me to ruminate on how dehumanizing the Internet can be, how deeply socialized gender is, and how elusive privacy has become.I think that privacy and its decline is a particular problem for women given societal and cultural burdens (how we should look, behave, speak) which, if shunned, create disproportionate risk to professional and financial advancement, general security, and freedom of expression. At a minimum, it’s hard to speak out when we feel unsafe. The victim in the aforementioned attack specifically warned sympathizers to refrain from supporting her publicly due to the danger of getting doxxed themselves.After the attack, the critic went dark for a week or two. I was disturbed and felt compelled to look more closely at my own behavior, habits, and tools that degrade or safeguard my privacy. It started out as an exercise for peace of mind, but the process made me recognize that many, especially those who are not as savvy as the folks in the Bay Area tech scene, and even some in that demographic, are not aware of how poorly protected they are when it comes to their personal information.There’s a ton of material already out there but, as an expert I interviewed said: “redundancy is not always bad. Saying the same thing in different ways reaches different people, and that’s good for all of us.”In that spirit I thought I’d organize what I consider good habits and practices into a three-tier approach to better protecting your digital self. My target audience is the technically comfortable lay person who normally takes privacy for granted. My hope though is that even the savvy will find some of this information useful, and that unique value will surface in the strategies that I proffer.My goals are to lay out an approachable baseline, increase awareness about the illusion of privacy today, and to contribute, in however small a way, to people feeling legitimately safer about having a public voice.This article is a culmination of casual yet long-winded research including conversations with industry experts, victims of abuse, and OG gamers. Online security and privacy comes at the cost of convenience, so the more robust the protection you seek, the more time and effort required. Of course whom you want protection from (government? harassers? telemarketers?) and what you want to protect (your contact information? Your digital data?) will require different strategies and priorities.The following recommendations are presented in three levels. They aim to balance convenience and security in a commensurate manner. A mix of threats from various anticipated sources are addressed.Last caveats: privacy maintenance takes time and, to be truly effective, ongoing effort. User interfaces change and references to them become outdated rapidly. These suggestions address a mix of different threats, but they are not exhaustive. They’re organized in a subjective manner and are by, and for, the non-expert. However, as previously stated, I’ve tried to do due diligence by consulting with industry experts as much as possible throughout the process.These tip in favor of convenience. They are big bang for the buck tasks that, in many cases, only need to be done once, or very infrequently, to help establish baseline security.These are additional things that you can do for increased privacy and security. Some of these things, like using Journalists, activists, or highly visible women who are likely to be under targeted surveillance from governments or online harassers, may find this section more useful.This content is under a I’m curious. Twitter 

I would not have started studying computer science if it hadn’t been for my sister (hey That all changed when Katie declared a computer science major in her sophomore year of college. She, like me, had always been interested in liberal arts and languages more than math and science. Our parents were English majors/lawyers/professors — engineering (surprisingly) was never a field we envisioned ourselves entering. When she started coding and exploring opportunities in technology, it all stopped seeming like an impossibility. Just because I didn’t start learning to code “early” (before college) didn’t mean I couldn’t start now. A coder was no longer the nerdy dude or the whiz kid who’s been eating binary for breakfast since they could crawl. A coder could be anyone — someone like my sister, someone like me.She also actively encouraged me to follow her path, or at least be willing to take a few steps in that direction. She framed it differently — it’s not the Katie’s influence pushed me to study computer science in college. I thought that taking classes and declaring a major (both of which I’ve done) would be enough to keep me interested. But what has actually done more to keep me pursuing a career in technology are the things I’ve worked on and the people I’ve worked with. My first quarter at Northwestern, I joined the interactive team at a In sophomore year, I joined the There is power in seeing someone like you in a space you previously could never envision yourself in. You are less likely to doubt yourself and more likely to take risks. You are more likely to pursue your passion despite being in an industry that may not always be welcoming. You are less likely to compromise who you are to fit into an environment where you are not the majority. You are less likely to remain silent when you’re harassed or your capabilities are questioned. It is for these reasons that role models, representation, and visibility matters. Solidarity among women in technology and supportive communities remind us that we are not alone and that we can do this. That we belong here too.CS 100 days’ worth of musings around 750 words

1. The female body produces milk on a supply and demand status.2. Getting your body to respond to a pump can be difficult enough even in the best of circumstances.3. Battery powered and manual pumps are typically not as effective as AC powered pumps.Happy cofounder of 

I sometimes hear folks in Silicon Valley insist that a good product alone is what wins markets. They think that the best product will beat out all of the competition. And for some lucky tech companies, the stars have aligned allowing them achieve some success with little to no focus on traditional branding. As the tech market becomes more crowded, will that trend continue?Brand building, attributes, values, and positioning are disciplines that often take a back seat in hyper growth startups or tech companies. Sometimes they vilify these practices by calling them “fluff” or reducing them to the importance of a “team building exercise” within the organization. More commonly priorities are determined based on what can be quantitatively measured; technology or human computer interaction design. These are often the first class citizens of digital products. You know… features, clicks, views and user counts.It’s ironic for me. I did time in the old world of advertising where tech and UX were underestimated and misunderstood. I experienced times of exasperation trying to convince brand traditionalists on the importance of concepts that reign supreme in Silicon Valley. Now, I am here in the tech capital where I find brand and creative to be the undervalued second class citizens.Saying that they are one in the same doesn’t take anything away from the other; it’s about valuing both so they can enhance each other. From the consumer’s perspective they are fundamentally the same thing.Whether it’s feeling satisfied with finding the information you need (UX) or experiencing an adventurous spark of energy (branding), the two feelings complement each other.Your product’s brand is not a tagline, logo, or color scheme; it’s the entire experience. Just like your user’s experience is not a login screen, checkout flow, or search bar.Tech needs to harness human emotion and tell stories. Not product stories, not user stories, but Storytelling and creative positioning will be the differentiator. As Silicon Valley companies scramble for advantages, it will be those that have a brand that resonates with consumers and evokes emotion. People think of Nike and they think of aspiration, Coca-Cola is fun, and Visa exudes trust. When consumers think of your product what will they feel? Will they have to engage directly with your product to know, or will the mere mention of it evoke a tinge of emotion?We don’t need anything new, Silicon Valley just needs to change the way we think about what we have: Design.It’s the end to end experience that a human has when discovering, using, enjoying and sharing your product. It’s the top down and the bottom up. It’s not just the interface or a stack of wireframes. Design is the likelihood that a consumer will recommend your product to a friend and the shot of adrenalin they feel when they think of tapping your app icon. You may think your product has “design” but does your product have all of that?Independent Designer and Art Director. Maker of Style Tiles. Formerly at Twitter.

They’re the new villains of pop culture. Mocked, reviled, scorned. And for good reason, too. Not to put too fine a point on it, but the tech industry today is producing is a very specific, very identifiable kind of very terrible person.The TechnoCock.I know, I know. I shouldn’t judge them. But the fact is. They exist. And you might just be one. Here’s how to tell.1. You’re making an app.2. The market for your app is the rich, the super rich, or the ultra rich. Globally, not just locally.3. It makes their lives easier, but only by making everyone else’s life harder.4. Your app provides the already comfortable even greater luxuries, instead of doing anything that actually matters.5. The luxuries your app provides are trivial, disposable, and totally unnecessary. They don’t make even the people consuming them better in any meaningful way. Think pet spas and on demand butlers.6. The luxuries your app provides turn people into lotus eaters, servants, zombies, vampires, or morons. Your app leads people away from being decent, functioning, living, breathing humans.7. Your primary goals in life are getting rich, getting hotter dates, and being powerful. Meanwhile, you can’t hold a decent conversation and can’t remember the last time you read a book.8. Your heroes are billionaires and/or superheroes. But you can’t name a single writer, intellectual, or artist that inspires you.9. You think a lot about your personal brand. But you have no idea why you were really put here. You think an identity is a set of checkboxes and a relationship stuff that’s stored in a server.10. You think the world doesn’t need libraries, bookstores, schools, hospitals, or parks. At least not nearly as much as you think the world needs cyborg friends.11. Your primary goals in life aren’t giving back, making a difference, and shaking things up. And you don’t see how these could possibly lead to a life rich in meaning and purpose.12. You don’t care how much real value your app creates for anyone. Your strategy is to sell it to GoogleAppleAmazonBook before they discover it’s the equivalent of a subprime loan.13. Nobody with a working soul would really care if your app disappeared tomorrow.14. You wanted to change the world once. But somewhere along the way, you can’t quite say how, you threw in the towel. And now all you want is to beat the world into submission.15. The closest intimate relationship you’ve ever had is with your smartphone.How many points does it take to make a TechnoCock? I don’t know. You decide. My point isn’t points. But the point. Of you.You can think of this as a quiz. Or as a set of criteria. For living a life empty of meaning, happiness, or purpose. Because the truth is that no one their death bed is ever going to say: “I never fell in love, climbed that mountain, or changed the world…but goddamit, I gave every dog on Park Avenue their own personal butler!!”. And if they do, you know and I know: they never got the point of the tiny, improbable, uncertain miracle of existence at all. And though such a person might have earned a fortune, their life will have felt a great, unwanted misfortune.Don’t be that guy. The one who ended up sharing their few scarce moments of truth, mystery, awe, grace, joy with…a smartphone. Be the person you were put here to be. Who’s that? I don’t know. You don’t know. But there’s only one way to find out. By journeying across the Rubicon of destiny, rebelling against certitude, giving thanks for the winds of adversity, finding strength in elevating every fellow traveller you’re privileged to meet. Because that is how you find something greater and truer than success. That is how you find you.author, economist, slayer of zombies.Essays  by Umair Haque

Becoming who you are: Women in tech / UX: A brief correspondenceRachel —Short answer: How? Show up. Appoint yourself, don’t wait to be appointed. Blog. Tweet. Slightly longer answer, particularly with To learn it, add it to your job if you can, or do it on your own. At your job, while you’re meeting and exceeding expectations for your role, learn about and act on the things you also want to do, and then use them to improve and help the product and the company. For a developer, that could mean learning new languages. For me, that meant doing content strategy but learning about information architecture and all the aspects of As for the human issues of tech women at work — the whole “I’m the only woman who’s a developer, and the other developers don’t invite me to lunch” thing —that’s a math problem; being one of many is always easier than being one of one. More women = problem solved. (See also Being known in communities — inside your field and across fields — starts with participation: online, in person, wherever and however much, across which platforms is comfortable for you. If you are near Meetups or mixers, go to them; if you aren’t, start them. Repeat.So,Related:1. experience architecture = ux + ixd + ia + content strategy #becauseawesome how, when, where, why, who

In the push to outfit classrooms with new technologies, students at resource-strapped schools are often left out. Forced to make tough funding decisions, many districts can’t spring for costly educational tools like iPads, interactive whiteboards, or even basic computer labs.Even if they manage to get the technology, problems invariably arise. A cart of shared laptops is rolled into the classroom, but there aren’t enough outlets to keep them charged. Students bring smartphones to school, but the school’s security policy prohibits their use. The computer lab is taken over for standardized testing. The projector bulb burns out.Sean Walsh teaches in Malden, Massachusetts, where approximately two-thirds of students qualify for free and reduced lunch, a common indicator of poverty. Nevertheless, Walsh argues that most kids today, regardless of their family’s income, can get their hands on a computer outside the classroom — whether at school, the public library, or home. “If they don’t have a device, a parent might or a brother might,” Walsh said. “As opposed to in a wealthier neighborhood where everyone in the family has a laptop, there might be one per household, and it might be an old one.”Corinne Strandjord, who teaches in SeaTac, Washington, says her low-income students are especially savvy with smartphones. “Because of their socioeconomic status, they don’t have laptops or desktops at home, so they rely on phones for Internet,” she said. “Not everyone has one, but most do. The same immigrant student who lives with eight people in a two-bedroom apartment will have a smartphone.”As free cloud-based services expand, and as more and more smartphones get into the pockets of low-income students, teachers are making innovative use of technologies that don’t cost their districts a dime. Below, we showcase five of the most exciting ways that teachers use inexpensive or free technologies for fun instruction that transforms learning.Microscopes are often too pricey to acquire in large numbers, so when Christopher Landry came across Instructables’ Each platform took 15–20 minutes to construct and cost Landry exactly $9.98, spent on basic hardware — plexiglass, plywood, nuts and bolts — and cat-toy laser pointers from a dollar store. The laser pointer provides the macro lens for the microscope, and Instructables walks teachers through dismantling it to extract the lens. Landry noted that this was the toughest part of the construction. “You just use a really good set of pliers,” he said. “And some patience.”The students in Landry’s after-school science club built the stands together. “We were able to build eight in an hour with no problems,” Landry said.It’s not just that the stands are vastly cheaper than microscopes; they actually fit classroom needs more effectively. “You can only put one person on a microscope at a time, but you can put five or six people around a smartphone,” noted Landry. “Not only that, but you can zoom, and you can take video.”Landry said that the Samsung Galaxy has the most fine-tuned lens and leads to the best imagesLandry has designated a section of the school grounds as his “outdoor classroom,” and he takes students outside with the platforms to extend their learning. After Landry taught a lesson on cells, students trekked over to the outdoor classroom and stuck leaves under their microscopes. “What I really like is their portability,” he said. “You can’t take a microscope outside and use it — it’s a pain in the butt.”Daniel Noyes, a teacher in Seattle, Washington, uses a free app called Plickers with his AP Human Geography Students. With it, he gathers multiple choice polling data from students, using only his smartphone and some pieces of paper.To get started, the teacher downloads the Plickers app and prints out individualized QR codes for each student. The teacher asks a multiple choice question, and the students hold up their codes in a direction that indicates their responses. Pointing his smartphone camera at the students, the teacher scans the room while Plickers captures student answers. The result is a bold bar graph and — if the teacher enters the students’ names — individualized data.The app enables Noyes to quickly check his students’ understanding after lessons. “I’d say, ‘Here’s a map of the world. Where would you find coffee production?’ And I would have A, B, C, D on the world map, and they would tell me where in the world coffee production is happening. Then I would be able to say, ‘Alright, twenty percent of you got this right, so that probably means we should look a little harder at this.’”After reviewing, Noyes can repeat the poll and show students their growth immediately.Other polling apps, including the popular Genevieve Pierce uses Remind with her ninth grade students at a high school outside Austin, Texas. “I use it all the time, because ninth graders can be completely ding-dongs and forget to do their homework,” she said. “You’ll be like, ‘This is due every Friday, come rain, shine or apocalypse,’ and without a doubt, kids are walking in and they’re like ‘Oh, I forgot.’”With Remind, teachers can schedule alerts in advance — when rolling out a new unit, for example, they can input all the dates up front, saving time later.Remind has just introduced a two-way messaging service, Pierce notes the challenges of using a service like Remind in a community where not every student has consistent access to a device. “Maybe their phones are dead, or they don’t have a phone, or they did something bad over the weekend and their parents have taken their phone away,” she said. Pierce recently learned that one of her students had been going without electricity for months. “If you have no electricity, you have no access technology,” she said.Still, Remind is popular with teachers in a range of contexts, as smartphones become steadily more ubiquitous and as teenagers continue to forget their homework.One of the Common Core outcomes calls for Voice Memos is an app that comes preloaded on every iPhone, and students can use it to record small group discussions and then text or email the recordings to their teacher. Because the students only need one iPhone per group, this works well in an environment where some students don’t have a device.Corinne Strandjord’s ninth grade students recently used their phones to record small-group discussions about short fiction. “I actually thought it would be harder than it was, or more complicated,” she said. “I’ve never recorded a voice memo on my phone, but kids were like, ‘Oh, whatever,’ and very quickly, there was a smartphone at each table, and they were ready to do it, and they figured out how to text me or email me the recording.”With a recording, students can replay and reflect on their own discussion, enabling self-assessment, and teachers can listen afterward. “It ended up being pretty efficient,” Strandjord said. “If you have four or five people having a ten-minute conversation, you’re going to get way more from [small groups] than from a thirty minute conversation with a group of thirty kids.”The strategy works to capture the discussion skills of shy students who might not speak in a larger group. It’s also fun. “They were kind of performing a little bit,” recalled Strandjord. “Since it was recorded, it was sort of immortalized. It was cute. A kid would be like, ‘Now that’s on the recording,’ if someone made a joke or something. It was fun to hear in my car, hours later.”Students can access their Google documents anywhere — in a computer lab, on a teacher’s computer, at home, at the library, or at a relative’s place — a critical feature for students who may not have their own computers. Teachers can type feedback remotely and even leave oral comments, saving time when students need lengthier explanations.Now, a Google Apps for Education account also includes access to Teachers with access to enough computers can also use Classroom to give real-time feedback on students’ Google files during class, while students are working on them. In San Lorenzo, California, Sayuri Shimada’s students submit their work via Google Classroom for quick, specific feedback. “I can read through and type in comments faster than I can make my way around the classroom,” she said. “Of course, I still work one-on-one with students, but oftentimes there are things that don’t need to be a discussion, things students can fix on their own.”3000 miles away in Massachusetts, Sean Walsh uses the products similarly. “I can log in at the same time and comment on the assignment or open up a chat window,” he said. “They’ll ask me a question in chat and I can answer that too.”Google Apps for Education also facilitates collaboration via a “Share” feature. “Typically, when two people work together, one ends up doing more of the writing,” Shimada said. But when using these products, “both work hard and watch each other’s colored cursor move about and complete work.”Of course, all of this requires computer access, which Walsh says may require a little planning for some students. “The culture that we’ve tried to promote, and I think it’s important, is that you have to be resourceful,” he noted. “If you need to type this [assignment], you need to not do your homework at eleven when you don’t have a computer, but you do it at three when you can go to the library.”As far as innovative technologies can go in transforming classroom learning, they don’t act alone: their power lies in smart instructional moves by teachers who know how to meet their students’ learning needs.For teachers in low-income schools, incorporating technology — and computer use especially — is a matter of social justice. Technological literacy is, in a sense, its own learning target. With this in mind, Daniel Noyes has made technology a priority even when it’s been tough to get his hands on the best tools. “The tech divide is real — [my students] don’t know how to use the technology even when they are faced with it,” Noyes said. The divide is apparent in skills as basic as typing speed. Increasing numbers of students can do wizardry on their smartphones, but keyboard skills still lag. “They’ve got to have time on the keyboard, because that’s a skill that they are going to need to have,” he said.Conversely, when technology is available, teachers must carefully weigh when to use it — and when other tools will better meet their students’ needs.“There’s a lot of good stuff, but I have to ask myself which apps and programs are most effective for the skills we are trying to master,” Shimada said. “There are times when I open the marker tray and tear off a sheet of butcher paper and have them do a sociogram or something. They need to do that too.”Walsh, who runs a mostly paperless classroom, has not completely thrown out the pencils. “I still do a lot of in-class writing assignments because I think there’s something to the tactile part,” Walsh said “We do a lot of in-class writes, but then it’s like, alright, go type it up on the Google Doc and share it.”BrightSeattle native and former public high school teacher, currently writing in Iowa City Innovation in Education

…There had been Then when we started a hosting service. In the old TextDrive days, everybody ran inside a big FreeBSD Jail, and then when we started doing virtual private server services those were FreeBSD Jail-based.No, it started out on FreeBSD Jails.…I think I got a hand on one of the Solaris “Nevada” builds at some point, and DTrace, ZFS and Zones were in there, and the whole source code for the whole thing was out, and then I was sold at that point.You have to think of it in context — this is 2005. The only decent 64-bit chip on the market was from AMD. Intel hadn’t quite shipped their EMT chips yet and everyone’s going through this 32- to 64-bit transition, which of course limits the size of a system to only 4 gigabytes of addressable memory. There’s not a lot of reason to do full-blown virtualization where you’re running a kernel on a kernel in 32-bit memory.When the biggest server you can have has 4 gigabytes of DRAM, you virtualized that with OS-level virtualization and you used FreeBSD Jails and Solaris Zones.Basically, how could you give people the experience of their own box, but do that at actual utilization rates.…Solaris at that point in time was rock-solid. My god — it had ZFS and DTrace inside of there and it could go 64-bit, and you could effectively sit down and easily clone things with ZFS. You could determine real utilizations and what people are actually doing from a workload perspective with DTrace, and you could basically overprovision and not have to hard-allocate memory. You could 1.5x, 2x, 3x, 4x sell a box, basically, and drive at high utilization rates and everything else.That was the thinking back then.SmartOS is still open source and out there, and it’s still the basis of Joyent. From a pedigree perspective, SmartOS can be thought of as a distro of the Illumos kernel, and Illumos was a fork of open source Solaris. It was forked when Oracle close-sourced it after buying Sun.I think Linux took off because of package management. I think that’s basically it. Docker’s taking off because it’s the new package management. It’s just that simple.FreeBSD was very attractive because there was a tremendous amount of ports inside of there. The fact is in Solaris it was always a pain to get all this other stuff to work. There never really was the equivalent of apt.get competing with this and that. There wasn’t this diversity of packaging systems that allowed one to get up and running.At the end of the day, if you’re learning how to develop on a system like that, having it be convenient and easy to use — you type a command and the stuff you have is just there, you’re not figuring out how to compile the thing — matters.…When you think about why would someone pick one Linux distro over the other, it’s because of — literally — the aesthetics of how the directories are laid out and what they’re called; the default shell and how much stuff was in there; and the packaging system. That was it.I think Docker is just the next evolution of a Linux packaging system. … The Amazon [Web Services] Machine Image got in people’s minds, you really get used to provisioning as this atomic, immutable image — you just grab this image — and Docker brought that next level of packaging to Linux.I think it’s regrettably the reasons why these things win. These things win because of aesthetics and convenience and ease and packaging. It’s a pretty box.A million thousand percent, yes.Yet, the mindset we had to have in running a large service was about the ability to do postmortem debugging in a big distributed system as it hit messed-up edge cases, which is totally different. We dealt with aesthetics and packaging issues by minimizing them. Basically bringing it all the way down to a really, really, really small operating system.In the old Solaris days, you would literally type “package in” and it would just shell out to tar. It was just basically a wrapper around tar. People will say it’s not, but it was a wrapper around tar.The Linux packaging systems were better for making it really easy. Anything you wanted was there, and it was one command away from being installed. I think Docker’s just a continuation of that mindset.We basically launched what we called back then, in 2006, the …We were very web-app-focused … so the whole Grid Containers service that launched was basically predefined web stacks and containers, predefined database stacks and containers, and then elastic load-balancing in front of it.It was the only service like that at the time and we even had a service called Ruby on Rails Apps on which you could do push deployment out of Subversion and stuff like that. For some stupid reason we stopped doing that and some people that found it irritating then went off to start Heroku and stuff like that.…Back then we had Wordpress.com and Twitter. I mean name your San Francisco startup that’s now a $10, $20 … $100 billion dollar company, and they were all customers.Then Amazon S3 came out. There’s a whole story behind making Twitter use S3 because the developers, back then, had no idea how to do a hash directory structure on disk as a scalable way of storing images. They essentially had one gigantic directory with a million-plus images inside of it.The first big, gigantic Twitter user that had 5,000 followers was John Edwards. I remember the day that John Edwards showed up, when he was running for president. Back then, the images weren’t paginated and so all the thumbnails of all your followers would load up with every page load, and they were stored poorly on disk, and caching headers were off, and then it became like, “Well, Amazon’s got this new S3 thing, why don’t you put all your images there so you don’t have to think about how to actually store these on a disk? It can be like a poor man’s CDN.”Then when Amazon EC2 came out, EC2 was a batch compute service for processing things out of S3. They did a really good evolutionary job back then. There was no disk persistence and no IP address persistence and they didn’t have a load balancing service yet, et cetera. But what Amazon really nailed in those years was they just really nailed making it easy and convenient.The killer service was S3. … We even, back then, just had our customers dumping their logs in S3 and images in S3, and then pulling them back down to Joyent and manipulating them there. Then EC2 shows up and, of course, that’s a perfect way to go and process a log.…[Joyent ended up making a lot decisions to expand its business, but] the smartest thing we could’ve done was never let all the web 2.0 companies go away. We had everybody back then. One thing that Amazon did a great job of was that they loved those guys.It was probably the biggest tactical error, if you will, but the tech was fine.Yeah, a million percent. A million percent.If you look at my team now, we just launched this “disaggregated hardware,” meaning we took apart all the normal hardware components inside of server storage and networking. There’s a board that, say, just has memory on it and some CPUs, and a board that just has NICs, and a board that just has drives. On the back of them there’s onboard silicon photonics where you can actually convert these electrical signals to light, and these are very high-speed connections. What you can literally do is you can have the “local hard drive” be a kilometer away from its CPU and its memory.We made it so that all the components are independently managed, independently scaled and everything’s basically been disaggregated, and everything’s been cross-connected by silicon photonics. That, on the hardware side, is really disruptive.On the operating system side, Windows has native containers now and Linux has native containers, and they over the next 2 to 3 years will get good. It’s even at the point now where VMware announced …When you think about disaggregated hardware — and we did this with Intel, and it’s not like Intel’s not going to do it with other people 2 or 3 years from now — the hardware disaggregation thing is now something that’s finally technically possible. We’ll have native Linux containers that are good, native Windows containers that are good. The role of hardware-assisted virtualization, where you’re running a full kernel on top of another kernel, that will be relegated only to situations where you’re trying to subdivide a CPU socket.When you can dimension a “server” or storage or a network switch — when you can dimension a piece of hardware exactly how you want it to be, as some bare metal experience, then you subdivide that piece of hardware with a native container environment — that’s going to be the vast majority of the world’s footprint. The hypervisors we’ve been messing around with for the last decade in production are going to be relegated, I think, to test-dev situations where you’re subdividing a CPU socket.Yes. Disaggregated hardware means you never have component waste and you’re able to differentially lifecycle-manage those components. You can make incremental investments to go and change the hardware into a different footprint rather than a full system swap-out. It’s supposed to meet the true promise of things like blades, not a chassis swap-out every couple yearsIf you’re below 50 percent occupancy of a facility, the economics of the facility dominates your economics. The fact that you used to use 100 racks, then you did a consolidation and now you’re using 20 racks, means you just now made the facility cost a larger percentage of your overall economics than it was before. You used to be at a low utilization rate and, my god, you consolidated and you’re at the same utilization rate.It didn’t solve the problem of trying to actually have perfectly dimensioned systems that are at high utilization rates sitting in facilities at high occupancy rates. I think that’s going to happen with containers. It’s particularly going to happen when you combine containers with the sort of disaggregated rack-scale hardware approaches.The issue was always an insistence on operating system heterogeneity. VMware Workstation 1.0 first came out in like ’98 or ‘99, and then in 2003 Xen came out. Xen at the time was only capable of running Linux on Linux, so Linux in the beginning made the wrong choice. It should’ve gone with the container model in 2003, not the Xen model in 2003. Both of those systems, back then, were software-only approaches to running a kernel on top of another kernel.…For a bunch of us, say at Joyent — and Google’s a great example of this — we realized from the very beginning that operating system heterogeneity was evil. If you decide that you’re not going to have a whole bunch of different operating systems, you’re going to standardize on one operating system, then the OS-level virtualization or the container approach is the way you do virtualization.I think we ended up in this situation with virtual machines, and we ended up in the situation with containers, because of two things. It was because of the operating system wars and the massive operating system heterogeneity that you had in the ‘70s, ‘80s and ‘90s, and then the 32- to 64-bit transition, where all of a sudden you could have large memory systems and you could do consolidation of all these operating systems onto one system.That helped people make a very easy evolutionary step. But if you stop again and think, everybody that did net-new infrastructure, where they built it themselves, made a container choice any time after 1999.Well, we’ve had a couple things happen. x86 won so far, until a 128-bit chip is needed or quantum computing shows up — so keep an eye out — but x86 won and that got rid of a lot of that level of heterogeneity. Linux and Windows have won, so that’s gotten rid of a lot of heterogeneity.As a result, you can start taking a much more atomic view of your infrastructure. You can take this idea that you have these immutable building blocks or Legos of set sizes, and you can start introducing concepts of atomicity and immutability in the infrastructure.…But at the same time, I think there’s still quite a lot to do. I think we haven’t quite gotten to the big issues in some of the distributed computing issues. That becomes how do you start giving them have some degree of autonomic behavior, so an application workload actually changes where it is and what it is doing on its own. You have a thing that decides it’s going to change how it’s scheduled on its own.…And most people that are doing some of these distributed systems are still dealing with tens of datacenters. I think there’s a lot to do still around what does it mean to start looking at hundreds to thousands, to tens of thousands, to hundreds of thousands of “datacenters” that have a wide range of known capabilities inside of them. How do you start having autonomic application behavior on top of that type of infrastructure?There’s still a lot to do. And like I said, 128-bit chips are going to show up and everything’s just going to go to shit again.Senior research analyst at Mesosphere; one-time senior writer at Gigaom; J.D.; thai boxerWhat’s next in computing, told by the people behind the software

An overview of the meteoric rise of startups like Yo, Magic, Ello, and Ethan.If you haven’t heard of Magic yet, let me enlighten you. Pick up your phone, text message a particular number with any request (emphasis on While the verdict may still be out on the reliability, scalability, or deliverability of said magic tricks, one thing is for certain. BuzzFeed, TechCrunch, Mashable, and Wired…publication after publication spread the Magic gospel at lightning speed. It’s been hard to ignore it over the last few days.Evidently, it makes for an interesting story that resonates with readers of the aforementioned publications.The product was hacked together in only a few days, and apparently wasn’t even intended to be released into the wild just yet. It was a quick weekend build thrown together by a team that had their ambitions set on an entirely different and unrelated project. It wasn’t particularly challenging to build and it isn’t hard to replicate, technically speaking.Common sense would tell us that exceptional products spread like wildfire, and lackluster ones don’t. If the original iPhone was crap, nobody would have bought it and consequently talked about it. Upon release, it was truly exceptional, so it spawned an entire industry nearly ten years in the making. So why has Magic, which is nothing more than a person at the other end of a text message, taken off like a rocket ship?Since I’m tasked with growth for my startup John Frankel, a partner at venture capital firm, stated it best when he said that apps “For one reason or another, the collective conscience latches on to one product or idea, propping it atop the shoulders of the masses for no apparent reason other than to fulfill an innate curiosity to see how tall it can stand. (Remember the ludicrous And it’s not just products and companies.In the fall of 2014, Alex Lee was bagging goods at Target, just like any other day. UnbeknownstA twitter user saw the photo and decided to share it with her followers. A few people passed on the photo to others, and Then, he was on Ellen.He didn’t do anything at all to contribute to his outright fandom besides just Ryan Holiday is a best selling author and editor-at-large for the New York Observer. His former job? Holiday is notorious for orchestrating elaborate stunts to gain press attention for his clients, which included controversial author Tucker Max.In his first book You see, unless you are a famous brand, you can’t just go pitch the New York Times these days. So, you take to a small blog that will actually publish your story. A marginally bigger blog picks that up that story and runs with it, which feeds into a larger blog, and up the chain it goes. News outlets look to publications below them for their story ideas. By starting at the source, a clever marketer can hack the system to his or her advantage.However, in the case of many of the aforementioned apps, they bypassed the small blog phase altogether. Instead, they all got their initial traction on More unbelievable yet, many of the products For a journalist, it’s easy pickins’. If a crowd has already validated that they like a product via their aggregate voting power, then it will probably make for a great story.What starts out as nothing more than a silly weekend project inadvertently and accidently resonates with a small group of early adopters from the tech crowd. Media outlets like TechCrunch and Mashable will write about top performing products from Product Hunt, speculating that if there is an audience to vote for them, there surely is an audience that wants to read about them. Then, a bigger publication like Huffington Post will repurpose the story and publish to its larger audience of readers. By the time it’s made it that far, there is very little to stop the cascade from reaching the influence of top tier media like The New York Times and CNN.I’ve seen it happen first-hand myself.When my friend In August 2014, The Honest Diaper Company raised a $70 million round of investment that placed it right at the cusp of an elusive class of what are called Unicorns; those startups that are valued at over $1 billion.“One billion dollars for a diaper company that is only a few years old?” I asked my wife, who is actually an avid buyer of the products for our 14 month old daughter. “What an overnight success for Jessica Alba,” I remarked. (Yes, the Jessica Alba that you know from movies and TV is the cofounder of the company.)My wife, although one year my junior, is many years wiser than I am. “Honey,” she kindly rebutted, “This was fifteen plus years in the making. Jessica worked her butt of for years in film, which opened up the doors to launch and scale a company with such speed.”She was right. Sometimes overnight successes take Just because an app goes viral one week doesn’t mean we’ll still be talking about it a year, or even a month later. Fickle users jump on the hottest thing and then look for the next buzz.For the high flying companies like Ello, Magic, and Ethan, it’s not all gravy from here. There is still work, Living up to the expectations of the investment dollars that inevitably flood in is the next big challenge for these nascent companies. How do you top such a stellar start? Ello brought in $5.5 million in fundraising after it’s fall 2014 explosion. However, it is estimated that only 20% of sign ups remained active on the site just one week after registration.Perhaps you are wondering why I haven’t yet mentioned While it once reached as high as #3 in the app store, it fell sharply since then. But all hope is not lost.Earlier this week, Yo released its To reach this point of utility, perhaps there was no other way than to have the massive surge in popularity in the beginning. It allowed for the critical mass to break through the barriers that plague early stage startups.To that I say, “What’s next?”I wrote the book on No IT Dept: You’re On Your Own

Part 1 of a series examining the gender gap in the tech industryLast Saturday, I had an idea.It was prompted by a problem that I often encounter when creating content for my company As a startup founder, I’m a fan of small actions that yield big results. I’m all about leverage. So in thinking about potential solutions to the problem of low representation of women speakers at tech events, one fix seemed the most reasonable — a directory of women in tech who are interested in speaking at industry events.To test out interest in this idea, I created a quick Google Form, and posted it to Twitter.In the past 10 days, over 850 women have added their names, all interested in being listed in the directory and speaking at tech industry events. Some amazing women from Google, Kickstarter, Pinterest, Facebook, BuzzFeed, Twilio, and many other impressive companies have added their names, from software engineers to CMOs.Pretty great.Before going into exactly why I think this is a high-leverage project, and details on what the end product will be (that’ll be a separate post, or two), I wanted to understand the current numbers and establish a baseline. So, with a couple of hours on Sunday night, I set out to answer the following question:I reviewed the following list of 25 top-notch conferences in a 1y period in the Bay Area. They are hosted by a variety of startups, incubators, and big tech companies, and cover several sub-industries within the broader tech industry (e.g. AdTech, VC, Design, UX, Bitcoin, On-Demand), along with those I’d classify as role-specific, and general ‘tech industry’ events.Here are the results of my tallies from the Speaker pages of the listed conferences, in order of lowest percentage of women speakers to highest:Also, a histogram showing distribution of the 25 events based on percentage of women speakers looks like this:The Average of the above percentages is The total overall Average (sum of women at all 25 events / sum of speakers at all 25 events) is Optimistically, this data shows that the current baseline for Bay Area tech conferences looks something like this:However, considering the speaker pages of the various events often include the journalists leading the panels and interviewing the experts, the baseline might actually look a bit different…If you’re a woman that works in tech who’d like to speak at industry events (or know someone that fits that description), here’s If you’re an event organizer that’s trying to increase the number of women speakers at your event — please reach out on canadian marooned in silicon valley. creator of disruptive innovention. metaincubation expert. mini-dino breeder. music moralist. ironic twitter bio writer.All things #startup, venture capital,  #technology. Content of all lengths and variations. Currently looking for writers. Email me: 

Hallå Markus / “Notch”,I’m not going to pretend that I know you or actively follow your story. I have never played your game and I probably won’t in the future. But your recent tweets of isolation and relationship hardships hit home.I don’t have any answers for you (and neither does anyone else), but I do have a few questions and thoughts that may aid in your search to rediscover the joy and belonging you once felt.I recently watched When I woke up this morning I was thinking about one scene in particular. It was when the Mom, who is a real estate agent, hosted an open house and failed to make a sale after a desperate attempt.As the last guest left the house, with her back to the camera she closed the sliding door and pulled the drapes to shield the light. As she turned, her eyes were closed and face distorted from anguish. Seconds passed and there was not a hint of sound. She was trying to cry but she couldn’t.Suddenly, the floodgates opened. Her mouth opened and she cried intensely, wailing like a child. She just had to let it out — the stress, the pain, and the disappointment. Not only from losing the sale, but from the brokenness all around her.Without warning, she slapped herself in the face and said, “Shut up! Stop it! You witch, you baby! Shut up!” She did, and she stopped. She collected herself, rubbed away the ruined mascara and walked out of the scene with the airs of calm confidence. Her main line is “In order to be successful, one must project an image of success at all times.”On Saturday night, you let out your cry. Maybe you were just having a bad day, or maybe you were just commented on a twitter trend, either way, you let it out.I’m seeing articles across the web of 20-something writers contemplating your thoughts and offering you solutions. People young and old are acting as if this is a surprise, wondering how can this be? A guy who sold his company to Microsoft for USD 2.5 Billion(misleading for average person) feels isolated. Must be something wrong with him, right?Of course there is nothing wrong with these feelings. You’re human… you aren’t the first and won’t be the last to feel this way after a mega exit. When average people think of millionaire status, they think relatively of how that would make their life better or easier.We say, “Oh wow, I wouldn’t have to worry about bills anymore, I could buy a supercar with doors that open sideways, and I could do x, y, and z.” They are only focused on the immediate gains, and have no basis to understand the new problems.This obsessive tech culture of hyper futurism, investment, scalability, valuations, and Silicon Valley worship that people are running for is an illusion. Once again, the average person, and even the average startup founder only relates to this positive side of modern tech culture.Silicon Valley is no different from Hollywood or Wall Street or the upper echelons of politics — it’s more lonely at the top than at the bottom. The truth of this culture isn’t on the covers of the tech tabloids — it’s right there in your Twitter feed.One thing in which I can’t agree with you is the idea that once you get everything you want, you run out of reasons to keep going. Firstly, you don’t have everything you want. If you did, then you wouldn’t be tweeting about your isolation. You have gotten everything that this culture suggests you should want, but not the deeply personal desires of Markus Persson.Second, there are always meaningful problems to solve. Real happiness only comes from solving meaningful problems and true relationships with other people.I watched your appearance from 2013 on the Late, Late Show. Craig Ferguson asked you if you had sold out to the evil corporation. You said, “No, not yet. And we hope not to. Basically the idea is that we have a company and we just make games we think are fun.”One of the ideas I talk about with my friends was popularized by James Carse in his book, Judging from your game Minecraft, you are more of an infinite game kind of guy. So why did you stop playing?After Minecraft became such a huge hit, I’m sure you felt pressure to match or exceed that with your new projects. But see, thats the thing about life, you occasionally have these black swan events that cannot be predicted. Odds of you replicating that success are close to zero.Why can’t we just appreciate a beautiful work for what it is and resist the expectation that the next installment will exceed or surpass it. I guess we as humans we have never been very good at that hope vs expectation thing.Are you trying to start a new finite or infinite game?After the first couple tweets on Saturday night you wrote this gem.I’m buying that this neo tech culture is mainly a group of assholes. Often they can enchant even the most hipster mind to sell out for love of money and corporate interest. I guess as you have discovered, the utopia they are selling is a simple VR simulation.Of course money is important, but it should be viewed as a tool amongst many other tools to provide optionality and benefit in ones life.Y Combinator, widely considered the best startup accelerator in the world, just announced their updated stats. The top statistic read,There are eight other stats on the website. Another which is very interesting is number of companies funded by YC is 940. That’s a lot of companies. Considering almost all of them had at least two partners, that is a minimum of 1,880 people. How many of them you think feel like you, Notch?I’ve been trying to get Sam Altman(not an asshole) to answer this question on twitter for a few weeks now, “How does the YC education system handle the topic of suffering for entrepreneurs?”No excuses for him not seeing the question, because it was in response to a reply he sent me. The reason he didn’t answer is because, But what happens when the sex, drugs, and rock n roll lose their effectiveness? That is unfortunately when they need the one thing that all the money of Silicon Valley cannot buy,But things aren’t hopeless, Notch. You say that you want would try your hand at saving the world but fear it would just expose you to similar assholes of tech culture. Two years ago, I would have agreed with you, but then I met the people at Exosphere.At first glance you see the Exosphere slogan, “Disturb the Universe” and think, what the hell? Upon closer inspection, you will find it is from a T.S. Elliott poem entitled, The mission of But let me tell you something, building this type of culture is extremely difficult. When you care about people and their long term growth, you can’t just discard them when things are tough. You can’t just kick them out when their MVP fails or when a co-founder quits. But instead you have to put in more time and energy to build them back up.When you incubate people instead of startups, valuations cannot matter, thus money is more difficult to come by. The elite talent pool that can get the top money, will usually go for it, so the supporting cast will not be the standard skill level of a SV team. When building this type of culture, you don’t have to accept everyone, but you do have to accept anyone who raises their hand and says, “I want to be a part of this.” Only then you have to confirm their volition by watching their efforts day after day of slogging through the muck of the everyday work.It is a tough road, one that will never get easier. But maybe that’s the reason why all Exosphere participants are required to read Scott Peck’s, There are rewards. Seeing people transform before your eyes, responding to positive energy and love is a big one. Seeing people conquer their fears and start to work towards their dreams is one. Seeing people willingly have difficult conversations to fix problems now instead of forever delaying is another. I could go on, but I think you get it that these types of rewards cannot be bought with money.There are many organizations and companies around the world that are changing the status quo and doing it through non conventional ways. They are building cool shit, and making a difference in people’s lives. And in that process, they are circumnavigating the assholes.Markus, I hope you are able to find what you are looking for. But no matter what, please don’t be like the Mom from As I said before, I don’t have any answers for you. But I encourage you to, “Musk” as you put it. No matter what you do for the rest of the your life, if it is something meaningful, you will have to deal with at least a few jerks that try to ruin the party. Find yourself a group of people who are committed to each other, and solving similar problems you find meaningful. Don’t let the assholes win.#NotchGoMuskGood things to come,Luke Blackburn-hot and cold, but never luke warm. Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

If you haven’t heard, Mr. Robot, a USA Network original series, is the newest addition to the family of television shows you should be watching. It’s a gripping psychological, cyber-nerd thriller-drama that’s received Quick synopsis — Elliot (played by Rami Malek), a cyber security engineer with social anxiety and a major drug problem, ends up working with an underground hacker collective to bring down corporate America.But, it’s actually less about technology and hacking than it sounds. It’s more than just a cyber-thriller. Throughout the show, Elliot draws parallels and observational hypotheticals between digital and human. For instance, the entirety of episode 3 (“d3bug.mkv”) is a play on human imperfections. Elliot compares each character’s own personal faults to software bugs:And episode 4 (“3xpl0its.wmv”) is all about how we can exploit those bugs in humans:Everyone has their vulnerabilities, bugs, and exploits. Just like computer systems, no person is impenetrable. With the right manipulation, deceit and cunning, there’s always a way in. We all have personal security flaws — backdoors that allow malicious intentions to slip past our security protocols, messing us up from the inside out. Which is why social engineering, aka “the art of hacking people,” exists. I mean, think about it. Our brains work similar to a computer. Strip the complications of emotion, morality, and cognitive learning, the basic functions are the same. We take in information and derive conclusions based on what we know. We use our own human algorithms to calculate outcomes, where as a computer uses mathematical means to determine an outcome. So couldn’t you consider us organic machines?There are other comparisons similar to these that are thrown about throughout the show — These parallels that Elliot draws throughout the show also begs the question, what would it be like if the digital world was part of the physical? Something that’s becoming more possible as we continue to innovate. We’re always looking for new ways to With the increasing amount of technological advancements in the world, our brains are practically taken over by machines on a daily basis. Think singularity. But not a robotic apocalypse, more like robotic integration. Eventually, we’ll become the machines. Technology is already so finely meshed with our society that we behave and interact with each other in a significantly different manner than we did a decade ago. It’s unavoidable.Mr. Robot is pointing out a unique perspective on the relationship between human and technology. Partially the reason that I’m currently captivated by this series.Writer, technophile, and internet traveler. No IT Dept: You’re On Your Own

I could not agree more that we need to invest more in teachers! I I have a few ideas that I think can help form stronger partnerships between education and technology companies, while benefitting schools, educators, and most importantly students.Most of all, I would like all of us to focus on solving the Learning Gap in education. This is relevant for every country, city, and school — regardless of its level of access to digital and technology. If we only solve for digital access or digital learning, then we will continue to only address the symptoms of under performing education systems. We, in technology, can offer useful tools that help people learn and teach more effectively and efficiently.But it’s paramount to develop holistic, blended solutions in schools (high quality teaching, data-driven technology, abundant and diverse content, great instructional design, engaging UI, useful instructor support) that help students attain that “Ah-ha!” moment on a more consistent basis. I believe this will lead to creating more engaged and motivated learners you wrote about who will become our next generation of “real world” problem solvers, big and small. That is an education everyone on the planet deserves.Best,BrightFather, Husband, COO at KnewtonInnovation in Education

Every morning I send a newsletter at 9, I send a couple of tweets and then I send a message to my employees asking “What are we sending out today”.However, I never said anything about waking up.The essence of automation in this day and age is crucial for increasing productivity. Whether you are working with just yourself or with a team of 35 people like I am doing, there are always routine tasks that have to be completed.What if I told you however that you can cut down your time doing these routine tasks and increase your workflow by not having to worry about these tasks.The following are some of the apps/sites that can help with automation and the differences between themUsing this for a year, this site sparked my interest for automation. When you enter the site it says “Put The Internet To Work For You” and the site upholds that promise.The site has over 200 “channels” that are able to become automated. Channels included everything from the most popular things like Twitter, Facebook, Gmail to things that you wouldn’t have thought about. Things like Groupme, ESPN and Nike+ among others.I use IFTTT to alert people when a new article is out, when writers have stuff due and whenever I have a request in Fiverr. This app is truly a great way to streamline multiple aspects of your day. Best of all, it’s free.Workflow is a revolutionary new app that lets you create automations. Unlike IFTTT , which is only able to create links between 2 channels, Workflow lets you add multiple chain reactions. The Workflow app also lets you turn your chain reactions into apps on the homescreen. For example with the push of one button you can crosspost to multiple social media sites and be able to change what goes in each post.Below is an example of what you can create.Think of automation as a free secretary instead of making yourself part robot. You never know how much time you can save when you are doing these routine tasks.Instead of having to send a reply email you can focus on increasing your following.Instead of reminding yourself to remind others you can spend more time on your business.Automation is a free employee with endless possibilities. I strongly encourage you to explore the sites and various forms of automation to further increase your productivity.You only have two feet to balance on the tightrope of life, but creating some safety nets is always a plus.A discovery tool for Aspiring Leaders. We help ambitious people discover inspirational entrepreneurs, impactful events, productive products,  How to Do MORE!

Mobile technology continues to disrupt the restaurant industry in many ways. People already use mobile apps to place delivery orders, book tables, and pay the bill. Restaurant operators should be aware of the followingCompetition in the foodservice industry is growing and it’s important for restaurants to excite their customers with new technologies. Here’s a quick look at the recent innovations that help restaurants deliver better dining experience to their existing customers while encouraging new ones.Food pre-ordering is one of the most trending technologies for restaurants right now. It lets customers to order ahead and avoid waiting at restaurants. Diners can be in and out of a restaurant in less than 15 minutes.In turn, online food pre-ordering means less hassle for restaurant owners. It eliminates time wasted on telephone calls, which is one less concern for busy employees.Pre-ordering helps restaurants increase table turnover and deliver better customer experience. Starbucks, Taco Bell, and Pizza Hut already have pre-ordering on their mobile apps.Food pre-orders are usually paid in advance before they make it to the customers. This means growth in sales since a pre-order is a guaranteed table of diners for a restaurant.Service like Table booking is another technology that shows your understanding of the importance of your customers’ convenience. OpenTable is the leading provider of online reservations that helps restaurants deliver great user experience and manage the flow of their customers.Many restaurants use reservation systems to keep their tables filled. Restaurants can expectedly sell more tables if customers can make reservations with their smartphones.Table booking apps also allow restaurants to pay closer attention to customers and remember their preferences. When a customer makes reservation via mobile app, a restaurant will remember who the guest is and have an opportunity to create a lasting relationship. For that matter, table booking apps are becoming more of a personal concierge service for diners.Mobile payment technology has become an integral part of everyone’s life, and this is just the beginning of its impact. This is why restaurants should re-think the way they settle their bills.Apps like Cover and Dash make the process of paying easy and pain-free for both restaurant and customer. Restaurant employees can focus more on providing better service and worry less about running checks and handling credit cards during busy hours. It means faster turnarounds for restaurants and better experience for customers.Why else should we embrace mobile check payment? Because it’s a proven way to attract millennials to restaurant. Millennials are obsessed with their smartphones and they are often the early adopters of new technologies. For these folks, dining already became mobile.The restaurant delivery space is getting more and more crowded. It’s hard to find a restaurant that does not provide delivery service, especially the one where customers place order over the phone. Let’s consider the business model of partnership between restaurant and food delivery apps, like Caviar and Postmates.With food delivery services, restaurants have obvious advantages of not having to hire additional employees, handle delivery logistics, and take care of customer service.Your business can reach a larger audience as food delivery apps will get your food and your restaurant menus straight to your customers.Busy people and millennials are the driving force behind the delivery trend, and restaurant’s ability to deliver food to their office or home are more valued than ever. Everyone is busier now and Services like Yelp and Foursquare put your restaurant on the map customized by user’s preferences. These restaurant-finding apps help people locate your restaurant if they are near you or if your menus match their interests and tastes.Restaurant operators can set up their business accounts to showcase their restaurants to millions of people that use review and recommendation services to find new great places to try out.Every review, photo, or tag adds keywords to your restaurant and improves your search performance and exposure. The more contents that are related to your restaurant there are, the more your restaurant shows up in searches. Create a strong public profile, add photos of your restaurant and menus, respond to customer reviews, and just let the word of mouth take care of the marketing.Big foodie and tech geek. Founder at Allset.Technology trends and New Invention? Follow this collection to update the latest trend! [UPDATE] As a collection editor, I don’t have any permission to add your articles in the wild. Please submit your article and I will approve. Also, follow this collection, please.

Currently I’m taking a break from formal employment to work on some software projects and to learn new languages and frameworks. Previously I worked at Facebook for three and a half years as a software engineer. I mostly worked on the Facebook Pages team doing front-end development in PHP and JavaScript, and I worked out of both the Menlo Park and New York City offices.Also, for the past few years I have volunteered for Out for Undergrad (O4U), a nonprofit that organizes career-building conferences for select LGBTQ undergrads, I was on the team that ran O4U’s technology conference, which Facebook sponsors.I want to be at a workplace where I can be out as a gay man. I think that’s generally true of most software companies in the Bay Area, but especially so at Facebook. While I was an intern at Facebook, I attended an LGBTQ employee mixer the week before SF Pride, and joined the email list for LGBTQ employees. When I decided to work at Facebook full time after graduation, it was reassuring to know that there was a strong, cohesive community of LGBTQ employees there. During the rest of my time there that proved to be especially true as Facebook advocated for LGBTQ rights, and adjusted its products to be more inclusive of LGBTQ people.Since Out for Undergrad was a big time commitment for a few months out of the year, I often mentioned it to my teammates at work. Also, I got Facebook’s New York office to march in New York City’s Pride March so that was how most of that office knows I’m gay. And sometimes when a lunch conversation with coworkers turned to people’s dating life or favorite bars, I got to bring up my sexual orientation.As companies grow, they should make sure to build an inclusive culture for everyone. Even for people who are accepting of LGBTQ people and other forms of diversity, this requires effort, mindfulness, and humility to pull off. Don’t do things that perpetuate heterosexism, like having booth babes at career fairs. Make sure company events can be enjoyed by people who don’t drink and people with families.Do things to acknowledge the socioeconomic privilege of the software industry and help others in need, such as matching donations to nonprofits, and supporting employee volunteer programs.Also, companies should be sensitive to the needs of LGBTQ people when building their products, for example, a social media company providing more nuanced options than just male/female for gender in people’s profiles. That will both make their products more useful for LGBTQ people and will make the company more attractive to prospective LGBTQ employees.If you’re at an undergrad, apply to Out for Undergrad’s technology conference at Reach out to Sharing stories, providing actionable ways for everyone to improve LGBTQ+ inclusivity in tech, and giving guidance to navigate the industry as a queer employee.

I used to write a column for a site dedicated to ‘female readers’. In one of my first articles, I asked Back then, I found the topic compelling and squirmy in equal measure. I still do. So lets get the disclaimer out of the way now: any attempt to proclaim upon gender is inevitably rife with woolly instinct and clumsy cliché.Nevertheless.When the wonderful A quick confession.Whenever I hear people complain about how tough it is for women in tech, I think of my sister. Emma is a forester. She launched her own company, Another confession.Although I have, throughout my working life in both As an avid reader, watcher and listener of anything to do with innovation, however, it’s a different story.I’m not a scientist or a programmer (although I am in awe of those distant, rigorous gods of material certainties); I’m not a Wired-style gadget-fetishist (although I’m not averse to a natty bit of hardware); and nor am I interested in how wearables skinned in this season’s chartreuse can help me lose weight (although I am digital editor for Here’s what I want more of.I hope that some of you — both men and women — might feel the same way.I’m not sure that I know what it means to be a woman, let alone what it means to be a woman in leadership or tech or publishing. But I do know that it involves telling stories about the future of forestry as well as Facebook, and I sure as hell look forward to jumping about in the leaves (whether in wellies, brogues, or a towering pair of heels).The Memo launches early April; you can sign up for our beta newsletter Writes and speaks about the impact of technology on publishing, culture and identity. Assoc Ed 

Make sure it’s up to date. Get a professional headshot for LinkedIn.You need a plan. You can’t just apply to any job and expect to be noticed. Pick your top 5 dream companies.Not just 1 thing. 100’s of things. Create something new every day. Don’t worry about if people will use it or not, that’s not the point.Don’t think that’s possible? It can be a software product or even a blog post.Create something new. Post it on FaceTwitLinkedGoog+ and you’ll be lucky if you even get a few likes and more than 30 pageviews.Post it all over the web again. Maybe email a few of your friends too.Maybe this time you’ll get two retweets and 100 pageviews.Do this 100 times. Actually do it 180 times.The first time you create something people will show little interest.The 10th time, your friends will start asking what you’re doing.The 40th time, your friends will start requesting for you to build something for them.The 80th time, strangers will start to show interest in you.The 120th time, strangers will start asking about your career path.The 160th time, strangers will start offering you jobs.The 180th time, you will breathe a huge sigh of relief knowing that you’ll probably never do it again, but was worth every minute.Something weird happens after your 80th failed project. Somebody asks you for advice. Yes, they are asking YOU for advice.You have this realization that your skillset is outgrowing your current job. You start looking at your colleagues differently. Then the craziest thing happens. You’re sitting in your normal weekly status meeting and a thought comes to you… “Am I smarter than my boss?”You discredit your own thoughts because you know that can’t be true.But, finally it hits you. You ARE smarter than your boss.It’s a great feeling, but since you know the often used “If you’re the smartest in the room, you’re in the wrong room” quote.The more you consistently create something from nothing, the better you understand these main points:Perhaps there’s a reason Google started looking beyond just tier 1 schoolsHere is a quote from Lazlo Block formerly Senior VP of Google People operationsPlay close attention to how he states that talent can be built in so many nontraditional ways.Sure, you will have to complete the training modules, but let’s be real, it’s highly ineffective. It’s “check the box training so you can’t ever accuse your employer of not training you” training.For example, here is my favorite tutorial on how to draw an owl.This is basically what training has become.You are on your own more than ever.Want to learn something? Do it yourself. The internet has all the resources you need to start. you just have to find the right one’s.You know why Mark Zuckerberg hired Eduardo Saverin. He needed the money for servers. This was before the “cloud” and servers and storage are expensive.Now you can I hear the same excuses all the time “I don’t have experience in X so I can’t get a job in Y.”I’m going to give you one crazy stat.Five Million unfulfilled jobs!!This is a big reason why I co-founded a recruiting platform that allows candidates The difference between good and great is that most of the great talent have something that they created on their own. Whether it was a software product, blog or a meetup group. They did something remarkable without asking for permission.The biggest career challenge that most people face is that they want a job that challenges them more. This is a big problem in many establishments big or small.When you’re on your own creating something everything you do is going to be a challenge. No funds, no resources, no direct experience and most importantly no one to blame except yourself. But when it works, you can take all the credit and you can use that real experience to advance your career.This is where most people fail. They spend all their time trying to find an employer that matches their skill sets. Worse, they actually spend a lot of time trying to find an employer to “give them a chance”.Or wait I have a better one. They try to find a job that matches their “passion”. I’m going to be the bearer of bad news here. No one is going to give you a chance unless it’s an immediately family member who feels sorry for you.Stop trying to find a the perfect fit employer for your new career opportunity, and instead let them come to you. Let them say “Hey Julie, I have a great opportunity for you”.So, how do you do this?There is a reason I didn’t title this article “how to get a job at any tech company in the world while working normal hours”.The reality is that in order to create new things it will have to be done outside the hours of your normal job. This means nights and weekends.Keep leveling up until your dream companies knock on your door. They need people like you. They need candidates who have proven results regardless if it was for a fortune 500 company or not.Need motivation? Ask I’m not saying you should Results matter more than anything. If you can SHOW what you’ve done, you will see amazing results. People will notice your work as long as you were consistent.Next time you talk to prospective employer, you can interview them instead of vice versa. It’s safe to say you have a lot of talking points about the work that you’ve done.About 180 talking points to be exact.Don’t forget your business cards!Actually, just kidding. business cards are dead.— — — -I’m Lane Campbell, co-founder of Presented by: 

I was fortunate enough to attend this year’s Dublin Web Summit, one of a few hundred women worldwide who received a free ticket as part of a measure to make the event A commendable initiative, I thought.And then I heard it, in sentiment, if not verbatim, from more than one person: “Doesn’t it feel just a little bit “icky?” Going there purely on the “merit” of being a woman?”I was surprised.It hadn’t occurred to me to feel “icky.” I was a woman in tech who wanted to attend Web Summit. That I was being given the opportunity to go along for free was great news, as far as I was concerned!But to others, more seasoned in this industry than I, it wasn’t that simple.They wondered if, in singling out women for treatment that was different to that of their male peers, the move could be construed as being sexist and yet another contributing factor in the very problem it was, in theory, created to confront: tech’s so-called “women problem”.I joined Instead, I looked forward to settling into a working environment free from gossip and bitchiness. A sexist assumption in itself, and a wrong one at that. Men have their moments, too.Looking back, I’m embarrassed at my naiveté and lack of awareness of the gender gap that exists in tech, and startups in particular.It didn’t take long, however, for me to become clued in.It was perhaps my third or fourth week with Clinch. Following some press coverage the company had received, we got an email from a female reader. After reading the article, she’d visited our website which was, at that time, still in the MVP stage. She’d had a quick browse, and, on seeing the one image we had up — of the original, four man team — promptly fired off a short and pointed email that read as follows:“How strange that on your “about us page”, it is all blokes in the pictures.”With a subject line that read “Are there any women working at Clinch?”, there was no mistaking the sarcasm in her message.Had she bothered to read I was annoyed at her oversight. Yes, she’d been too quick to judge, but it was only when I delved a little deeper that I began to understand why she’d made the assumption that she did.In their recently released workforce diversity reports, both At this year’s Web Summit (pictured above), of the 130 people to address audiences from the main stage, only 24 It was in light of these kinds of statistics, then, that I began to wonder if perhaps the scepticism in the responses to my accepting the free ticket to Web Summit, was justified.The more I thought about it, the heavier that ticket in my hand began to feel.I realised that in taking on this role at Clinch, I had taken on something more than just the role of ”writer.” I was a woman in tech now, and consequently, a part of that broader conversation, of that movement.With the lines that separate personal opportunity and industry tokenism now so very blurred, how’s a girl supposed to know what’s right?I spoke to Catherine Cronin, academic coordinator of online IT programmes and lecturer in Information Technology at the National University of Ireland, Galway. Earlier this year, Catherine was named by Silicon Republic as one the top role models of 2014 among women in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) in Ireland.On my Web Summit ticket dilemma, she had this to say:“Women are in a difficult situation here. If we accept such gifts, are we complicit in some way? But if we do not accept a free ticket, then we may not be able to attend the event, and to judge the situation for ourselves.”“I also understand the criticism that this is tokenism. If 100 tickets to a tech event were offered to women for free, and all women accepted and attended, what would change? The number of women attending would be slightly higher, and the event organisers might feel that they had helped to address the under-representation of women. However, if the proportion of women speakers remains low, if “booth babes” are still present, if women do not have an opportunity to be part of the core organising committee, then there is little chance that meaningful change will occur.” — While “booth babes” were, thankfully, in short supply at Web Summit, if there were any there at all, the number of female speakers in comparison to men was still low: 96 — “Catherine went on to emphasise the importance of understanding the motivation and intention of the event organisers: was it a PR exercise, or were they genuinely committed to fostering a better, more welcoming culture at their event?“I might ask what else is being done to increase the participation of women in the event, how the organisers could engage meaningfully with women-in-tech organisations, for the benefit of both. These kinds of conversations and collaborations contribute to culture change.” Simply by virtue of being a woman in tech, and Dublin having the relatively small yet friendly and welcoming startup community that it does, I have come across any number of the women-in-tech organisations that Catherine mentioned. They’re formed as a means of offering support and encouragement to women at all stages within the industry, as well as those with an interest in getting a foot in the door.Such groups are incredibly valuable to women, as a recent conversation with the female-led team at “These groups have created a sense of community for women in the tech industry,” says Community Manager, Chrissy Hughes. “At Web Summit, GirlCrew organised a pop-up group, offering a welcoming space for females at what is traditionally, a male-dominated event. At the same event, DigiWomen created and promoted the #SheDIDit hashtag for people to share stories about women’s achievements in technology.”And yet, Catherine’s comment about “conversations and collaborations” stuck with me.And, let’s be honest, how much more impact would these groups have, with male tech leaders publicly lending them their support, too?If it is left to women, essentially being treated as “women’s work,” to educate, support, and promote each other, one would imagine that change will be slow to happen, if indeed it does in any real measure at all.I didn’t write this piece to offer solutions or answers. I wrote it because I wanted to explore the issue — to better understand the problem as well as how we might work to bring about change.It seems to me that referring to it as tech’s “women problem” is a poor choice of phrase, to say the least. Not only does it suggest that women in themselves are a problem, I think it has the potential to give men an “out,” too. In calling it a “women problem,” are we allowing men to shrug off much of the responsibility for tackling the issue in search of a solution?Perhaps it would be better to think about it as a “diversity problem,” instead — something that holds everyone accountable.Because as far as I can tell, gender equality in tech is ultimately dependent on a shift in mindset, not just numbers i.e. more women entering (and staying) in the sector. And that shift in mindset is one that’s required of males and females alike.Yes, it’s important that women and girls are educated in the merits of pursuing a career in tech, encouraged to develop an interest in STEM subjects, and have strong female role models, but men have a role to play, too, in bringing about change.They, too, need to go beyond offering just lip service, and step up as educators, as group leaders, and as role models who can challenge gender stereotypes and, in leading by example, promote healthier attitudes toward women amongst their peers as well as younger, more impressionable kids.Real change takes time, and realistically speaking, it is not our own generation, but the generation below, that stands to be the first to experience a tech industry in which gender equality is the norm. It is up to the rest of us here now, to put in place the measures to ensure that change takes place.Writer with Dublin startup 

This might be a little bit surprising — my code sucks! But Im not a developer, so I dont really care. I care about finding one. But not just a regular one. Im looking for a partner. For somebody who will be in love with the same idea. Who will work 15 hours a day next to me. Who loves learning. And who is ready to fail thousand times and will still believe in the victory.I did my homework. I talked to 25 CEOs about how they found their tech co-founders. Apparently about 50% states for previous friendships and other 50% goes to serendipity.So as most of my friends still code in Java (no comment please:)) or are already tech founders in their own companies, I need to go for the serendipity. So here I am on medium.Ive been always in tech. Now for 8 years. I love how technology can help humans to fulfill their potential and make the world a better place. Not just for humans. Maybe also for aliens. Of course after we invent Enterprise. Yep, I love Star Trek. We can watch the next movie together, deal?Im a big believer. I believe in people. I just do. I will believe in you too, promise.Im always in a good mood. It makes me drive and sometimes drives other people crazy. I need a hug sometime. Fortunately for you I have a boyfriend to take care of this duty.I love to work. I work on the weekends too. My favorite relaxing activity -cooking. Lucky you, you will be fed well. Tell it to your mom.To answer your question: Yes, I will give you a significant ownership of the company we will be building together. And yes, it wont be for free. You will need to work your ass off.Its quite simple. I had a burn out. Startups are hard. We know that, but this was bad. For the 1st time in my life I wasnt excited about my work, about my relationships and I was confused.I was always a self-improver. Ask me when was the last time I read a different book than about how to be better at X  Y. So this was disturbing. I started to learn more about how can you prevent this kind of stuff. I stumbled on positive psychology. Digged into neuroscience, especially priming. I started learning about well-being in general.I also tried to find a sufficient tool other than books and blogs to support me. I found quite a lot of apps, but most of them where all rainbows  unicorns. And I dont do rainbows and unicorns. Next to that these apps were useless.This got me thinking. I should build something. I started asking people around me what well-being means to them and what they do to improve it. Then I did a structured research with almost 50 hard core self-improvers. Most of them also within quantified self movement.I discover many interesting things. Teaser before I write a blog post about it: most hard core self-improvers are men (like +90%), our well-being is extremely tied to habits/routines, exercise matters a lot!Now Im testing my low tech MVP with my 1st users. Im pretty confident about the concept. I got a couple of designers willing to help out.CEO  founder of liwely.com — your well-being coach. Love #priming #psychology #quantifiedself 

When I was a little girl I had no idea what I wanted to be when I grew up. I’m still little (5’1”), but hardly a girl (over 40). The jury is still out on the grown-up part. I knew I didn’t want to be a nurse; my mom is that. She loves it — still doing it even though she could retire. My dad worked in the oil industry, and that meant we moved around a lot, including living in Algeria. Eventually we went back to England, but we lived in the South, near London. I didn’t like it much there. I’ve always been more of a country girl — I prefer the fresh air, the ocean, nature. I was bullied by this girl called Vicki, who I learned didn’t even realise she was bullying me. She was just a real mean girl, and I learned very early on that I hate being around negative people. I convinced my parents to send me to live with my grandparents in the northwest and I got to go to an excellent girls’ grammar school. Until that point I hadn’t really had to try hard to maintain a place in the top 20%. At that school I had to work my ass off to stay slightly above average. We didn’t have tech classes; no one did in England in the ‘80s. I think I saw myself more as a creative type; I loved writing stories and painting. But I also didn’t want to be pigeon-holed. I wasn’t ready to decide yet who I was. So when it came to the part where we were supposed to select Science, Arts or Social Science, I refused to specialise and I picked one of each. Mathematics, Government  Politics and English Literature. But actually, I was making a choice by not choosing — and it has stood me in good stead. I wanted to go to one of the best universities, but being a B Student with no speciality, they were not convinced I was the best candidate. Oxford, Durham, Edinburgh, Bristol, Warwick — they all rejected me. Which actually set me free. I had been planning to do English Literature at university. Getting rejected from all of my choices meant that all of a sudden, I was not faced with five options and one major. I could pick any school and any course, assuming my grades were good in my final exams. So I refocused and applied myself. Got my grades and then started calling around. Durham University had a place for me doing philosophy. I had no idea what that was, but it sounded awesome. So I took it. When I was in my second year of University I shared a house with a bunch of physics students. Yes, it was exactly like “Big Bang Theory.” Those guys used to give me a hard time about doing an arts degree. Saying it wasn’t a real subject. It wasn’t as hard as their degree. That I couldn’t survive in a course like theirs. I hate it when people try to tell me what I cannot do. One of those guys had his own computer company back in Cornwall, at 20 years old. He was the most arrogant of all of them. And of course, the one I most wanted to prove I could beat.So I applied to do a master’s degree in computer science. It was a really intensive conversion master’s designed to bring people over from arts degrees. The undergraduate classes I did in artificial intelligence and logic had peaked my interest, but I was not prepared for how hard the jump from 10 hours a week of classes to 35 hours + homework. I had to learn seven coding languages which included Assembler. It was a really rough awakening. But I’m glad I did it. When I applied to start work I was looking for graduate scheme stuff. I wanted to follow a leadership track to the top. I told them I was interested in starting in hospitality or tech. I was picked up by Whitbread Inns (Travel Inn, Pizza Hut, Marriott Hotels, Brewers Fayre etc) and I started deep in the grass roots — new openings in a pub/hotel chain. Before six months were up they moved me to the head office in glamorous Luton to work on an EFPOS project — putting in tills that linked to each other, a back office computer and had a feed back to head office for stock, rosters, financials etc. I started on the help desk, then moved to a role in desk-side support back in the northwest, then became manager of those regional teams. I then took an architect role for the Windows 2000 upgrade, before moving on to manage the service desk, network and desk-side support teams. In those years Whitbread had been taken over by Anheuser-Busch (largest brewer in the world by volume) and eventually they outsourced us all to IBM.This was a tremendous opportunity for all of us. Outsourcing is a particularly unhappy time for most employees undergoing the procedure. First of all, your employer declares you are no longer part of its family. Also that they think someone else can do your job more effectively and cheaper. It tends to make people feel a bit undervalued. And we had loved being part of the Hospitality Industry — apart from working in chocolate, it surely has to be the best industry in the world… they gave us free beer! But, looking at it objectively, all the smart and talented people who worked for me had nowhere to go. They were all stuck in their jobs waiting for someone to leave or die. Being outsourced to IBM was the most wonderful thing that could happen to us. They brought us in, welcomed us as their own, gave us the blue blood infusion, the tattoo on the back of our necks. We were assimilated into the collective and it was awesome.All of a sudden everyone in all of my teams had a career path. They had choices. They could grow. I went from being a national manager to working globally. I moved to Belgium, the land of beer and chocolate and lead teams in Dublin, Czech Republic, Brazil, India, South Africa and China.It wasn’t for everyone. The best boss I have ever had refused the transfusion. He had worked for one company his whole life. Known people who had started there at 16 years of age and people who had died there. It broke his heart when they outsourced us and he refused to become part of big blue. He had been a great mentor and an amazing friend to me. I thought we would work together forever. I was devastated to watch him leaving me — is it worse to lose a work husband than an actual husband? In my early career nearly everyone I worked for, and with, including those that worked for me, were men. Maybe, I didn’t have to prove I was better than them — but I did have to prove I could do anything that they could do. Even when I was managing them I was taking my Microsoft Certifications and studying CISCO courses. They respected me for understanding what they understood. I know plenty of Managers who have never had to do that. They manage without understanding the technical details. I don’t think I understand the details anymore, but I understand enough that they know I know something. I don’t think they require it from me anymore. I think they like that about me though. I had a 10-year plan that involved leaving Europe, that despite most people’s romantic visions is cold and dark and wet most of the year and emigrating to the sunniest city in the world, Perth, Australia. I worked for a local company for a year or so and worked with an amazing team. But I missed the culture of a big company. I moved across to Microsoft and it was like going home to IBM, but better. It was harder, so much more challenging — this was a company attempting to reinvent itself. To move from its large, complacent position to something relevant and exciting again. Every employee had to step up and push themselves very day. It’s hard, but I love being part of that.I don’t have some horrific story about bullying and being driven from my role. But I have seen that happen. I think the more common story that resonates with many women in my field is the death by a thousand cuts scenario. The snide comments. The overlooked good work and the exaggerated mistakes.I spoke at an event earlier this year. It was pretty impressive because they had quite a few prominent industry women there. A games industry specialist, who I am a huge admirer of, received some quite aggressive questioning from one of the school boys in the audience. It might have been nothing, but in the light of the recent #GamerGate stuff, it seemed particularly insensitive. The specialist (who is a woman) complained to the organisers and asked for a Code of Conduct or a Safe Space Policy to be implemented in future years. She was dismissed by the old guy who acts as president for that association — he thought she was “overreacting.” I voiced my surprise at his response, since what she asked for was very easy to implement and a small, reasonable request. He dismissed me too. I represent Microsoft and am vice-chair of the Australian Computer Society — so he was dismissing quite a serious industry heavy-weight. He just couldn’t see what we were upset about. I asked my ACS co-chair if he would raise it at the next board meeting of that association. He did and after some argument, they accepted it. Now perhaps it was because he sits on their board, and he made his arguments in person. But it is concerning to me that both the person who leads the games industry in our city — a respected doctorate holder — and a representative of one of the largest technology companies in the world were dismissed so easily (perhaps because we were women).It would be easy to let those tiny slights build up. To let those wounds seep slowly into the world around me until I am weak, and vulnerable and broken. But I do not. I think that as women we face those slights in many areas of our lives, and letting them drive us out of a really cool field that is filled with opportunity and perfectly suited to us would be the ultimate defeat. What keeps me going is the wonderful people I find around me, supporting me, working with me to make the industry we work in better. Both women and men. I work for Microsoft these days. It is an incredible company to work for. I am surrounded by the brightest and best people. They give me huge amounts of support and freedom to do work with the technology community, which I do on top of my actual day job. They have given me a Monthly Blog on their Asia Pacific page (starting September 2015) where I can talk about women in Tech. Every single Microsoft employee in the world has $1,500 worth of software they can donate to NFPs to use for fundraising purposes, every year. I get to act as a judge, panel member and speaker on behalf of Microsoft or on behalf of the Australian Computer Society, and I have a In my What makes me Happy, Successful and Rich is that I try to always live my best life. I don’t let the stories in my head hold me back from opportunity (i.e., I’m too old, too young, not experienced enough, not skinny enough, not strong enough, not qualified enough etc). If I see something I want to do, or something I think I should do because it would move me forward, I step forward, I put my hand-up, I apply, I ask, I do it. I don’t try to be like the crowd. There are too many sheeple. What makes us useful, and what makes us interesting, is our differences. Those become our strengths. I’m not one of those Type-A women, super-smart, super-strong. I’m short, a little plump, charming, clumsy, cute. I try to be remarkable by doing what others are too lazy or scared to do. Perhaps those words are too strong — but complacency and fear are definitely our enemies. They hold us back and I try hard to recognise them and push through them.I will not step on someone else to get ahead. I deliberately seek to lift up those around me. To highlight their strengths and skills. I am a strong believer in karma and the law of attraction — and I think my life proves the efficacy of that lifestyle. I help people, and people love and support me. I am leading a positive movement — and I find supporters everywhere I look.Geek demi-goddess, Tech Evangalist, Bonne Vivante, philosopher and raconteur. I speak for myself. #HappySuccessfulAndRich  Autobiographical accounts from women in the tech world. Submit yours today.

Just over 1y ago, Fred Wilson of Union Square Ventures At that time, we wanted to dive deeper into the trend, and understand how the strategy was playing out with Facebook, Foursquare, Dropbox, and a few other mobile apps. A collection of Evolution of mobile app distribution hasn’t become any easier to navigate these past 12months, and competition has only increased. When I asked Facebook has managed some great results in spinning-out Messenger. Notably, since the beginning of 2015, the iOS version of the app has never slipped below 5th place in the US in either the Social Networking nor Overall category. Impressive.You could argue that a couple of their other constellation products (Instagram and Whatsapp) that were acquired via acquisitions are also doing very well, while those created internally (i.e. Paper, Slingshot, Rooms, all launched out of Facebook Creative Labs) have more or less failed.Dropbox’s Carousel — another internally created product — has also continued to struggle over the past year:It has been hovering around 50th place in the US Photo and Video category of the iOS App Store, and well past top 500th position Overall for most of 2015. Meanwhile, there are rumors of Dropbox continuing to push in this direction with pending Google Docs-style collaborative word processor product.One year after our initial post, we again chatted to mobile experts from inside I don’t think much has changed in the year since we last talked about app constellations. Most companies that have tried them have failed, and the successes seem to crowd around these specific strategies:Facebook and Google are clearly the most mature in their strategy. They make bets on new apps of which they know they’ll have a certain success rate (Rooms, Moments, Keep, Slingshot, Paper, Riff, Field Trip). They also successfully unbundled popular pieces of larger apps (Messenger and Groups from the Facebook app, Sheets and Docs from Google Drive, Hangouts and Photos from Google+, Inbox from Gmail). They do this for two purposes: To make popular features take up another spot on the charts (Messenger, Photos); and to make more performant apps for niche features that are important to certain people (Groups, Pages, Sheets).Evernote is the only other company of note with a similar success ratio. Almost all other companies have had no success with app constellations (Dropbox and Foursquare, notably). Microsoft, while late to the game, is following Facebook and Google’s strategy of acquiring great apps (Sunrise, Accompli) and launching their own successful desktop apps on all platforms.Twitter focuses on cross-promoting app launches within their main app. This was successful for Vine and Periscope, and not so successful for Music. Instagram has had one success (Layouts) and one failure (Hyperlapse).It will be interesting to see what Uber does here. As Uber expands outside of transportation of people to things (via Eats and Rush), they will likely be pressured to unbundle those apps. They are doing the right thing right now which is using the install base of the main app to gain popularity for these features. Then, if those features succeed, they can unbundle them like Messenger.One year later, app constellations are still an ideal growth strategy for our current silo’d app ecosystem. If you have a big enough audience, a differentiated use case for the non-core apps, and are willing to take the risk of pushing users out of your core app and onto a new property, you can not only acquire a huge audience for little cash outlay, but you can also limit the ability of your competitors to get those organic installs. Facebook has done the best job capitalizing on app constellations. By breaking out Messenger functionality from its core app, and Layout from Instagram, Facebook has claimed 4 of the top 10 spots in the App Store and 3/10 in Google Play. They just dominate app discovery.But I think App Constellations are a fundamentally short-term play. In a few years, we won’t need as many affordances to make our devices do what we want. Apple and Google have already made strides towards turning apps into service layers for their hardware. Prime real estate in the App Store becomes a lot less valuable in a world where we need fewer apps. I’m sure that Facebook has thought about this. I’m interested in seeing what their plans are for avoiding a declining share of attention in a post-app world.Last summer, I made two main claims about the whole unbundling/constellation strategy in the wake of the launches of Swarm, Paper, Carousel, and a few others:1) Unbundling into “constellations” vs. single apps rarely works. Facebook Messenger is one of the only successful examples.2) The only time it does work is when two use cases compliment, not cannibalize each other. This is one reason Messenger took off and Paper did not.One year later, I think those arguments have generally held up. However, I think in many cases, we were thinking of “success” as one-dimensional: Did the company succeed at getting multiple apps on your phone or not? With the benefit of hindsight, you can see that more often than not this wasn’t really the goal.For example, Paper was not an attempt to get more real estate on your phone — it was a UI experiment.This card-like UI interaction is what you see when you’re looking at profiles of suggested friends from the friend request page, and it’s straight out of Paper. You’re starting to see more and more Paper-esque UI paradigms permeate the Facebook mobile app, and I think you’ll see that continue.Somewhat different is the case of Foursquare and Swarm. When we commented on the strategy last summer, Swarm was chalked up as a failed unbundle because Swarm itself didn’t take off. And it still hasn’t:However, Swarm wasn’t really about Swarm — it was about saving Foursquare. Foursquare needed to escape the legacy of check-ins to go more mainstream, but just axing the feature outright would have caused even more revolt. Swarm allowed them to gracefully remove check-ins, and Foursquare has been steadily rising in the ranks since last fall (when the dust settled from the launch of Swarm).One interesting new strategy we’re seeing is big companies simply buying constellations — i.e., purchasing ready-made apps (sometimes with existing user bases) that they believe can be successful as part of a product suite. The most notorious example as of late is Microsoft, who has bought their way back into relevance in the consumer productivity space by acquiring Wunderlist, Sunrise and Acompli within 7 months. They’re not the only ones, though — Twitter has been quietly building a constellation via MA for years (Vine, Periscope), as has Evernote (Skitch, Penultimate).If anything, I think we’ll start to see more companies A year ago, we talked about how platforms were breaking up into constellations of apps. Each app was targeted at a different use case. Facebook spun off Messenger and Today, I see something similar happening again on a smaller scale. Apps are being broken out into separate Each app is like its own tiny ecosytem that plugs into a broader multi-app universe. Power users no longer have to choose just one social, payment, or location app. It’s getting easier for them all to play together thanks to Extensions in iOS 8 and the deep linking that’s coming in iOS 9. Conversely, a well-executed ecosystem creates a moat of ever present usability for mainstream users. I love collaborative playlists in Spotify, but I love having offline Apple Music playlists on my watch even more.I’m excited to see what developers do with Watch OS 2 when they start getting access to more of the hardware in Apple Watch. We may have to put up with a few more cycles of cluttered home screens — and perhaps some very ambitious watch complications — but I’m still optimistic that we’ll end up with better experiences as companies learn how to engage users with the right face/app of their platform.The App Constellation strategy is still going strong — but only really paying off for those with massive, highly engaged audiences and clear differentiation between apps. In those cases, it’s interesting to note that the ‘product acquisition’ approach seems to work best, while in-house spin-offs are more likely to fail outright.The recognition by these companies that they’ll eventually encounter the Innovators Dilemma is amazingly astute for such young companies. It’s a very powerful statement to their core DNA — they’re willing to keep pushing this strategy forward, even if that means many failures along the way and potentially cannibalizing their core product.Share what youre reading for work.

Currently I am a Software Engineer at Medium. In the past I’ve done 2 internships at Facebook as well as some smaller jobs when I was younger. I’m still really early in my professional life and career :)Since I’ve been out, I’ve always looked for places to work where I knew I would be accepted. I’ve been fortunate enough to work for two amazing tech companies who take diversity and inclusion very seriously. Working at Facebook and joining their LGBT group on campus really helped me understand how it is to be an LGBT individual in real life and at work. I attended my first pride parade as a Facebook employee in the summer of 2012 and it really opened my eyes to what it was like to work somewhere that is so accepting and open to all kinds of people.This is a fun story actually! I joined Medium on February 17, 2014, and we had a company wide retreat 2 weeks after that. During the retreat we brought in this amazing group I’m sad to hear that the interns you’ve spoken with are uncomfortable sharing that part of them at their workplace :( I find that sharing your sexuality is just like sharing anything else personal about yourself. Some people don’t like to share anything personal at work, but sharing who you are with your coworkers actually makes work more interesting, fun, and productive. I believe that when you know your coworkers on a more personal level, you are able to connect with them and work together more effectively. When you are LGBT, you are always coming out of the closet. Every day. But every time you do it, it becomes easier and less scary. Coming out to your coworkers can help you be more comfortable in your own skin and not feel like you’re hiding something, and it also helps your coworkers by making them more aware of the diversity they have around them.It’s been pretty amazing actually! Growing up I never knew how many LGBT people there are in tech. When I applied to university I thought I was going to be the only gay guy in all of CS, but that was very far from the truth. I’ve also felt extremely supported in the tech community in general with programs like Out for Undergrad and various LGBT events held by tech companies. Tech companies typically have huge turn outs at the SF pride parade too.Absolutely speak up. It’s I think every tech company should have an LGBT group, and should be really mindful about how they communicate both internally and externally. Having unisex bathrooms at the office, using gender-neutral plural pronouns, LGBT-inclusive benefits, publicly announcing support for marriage equality, updating social media icons with rainbow colors, etc. There are so many ways for companies to show that they are inclusive, and I think many times they just don’t think of it or forget to follow through with it. As LGBT candidates look for jobs, those companies that very publicly show their pride and acceptance will have the edge over companies that don’t.Don’t be afraid to ask the company you are interviewing at about their LGBT inclusive policies and benefits. For some really small start ups, you might be their first LGBT candidate / employee and they may just haven’t set up or thought about it. If there is a product or company you are really passionate about, but they don’t have a presence in the LGBT community yet, look at that as an opportunity to lead them in that direction. Start an LGBT group internally, get involved in the public communication efforts to show that the company’s support on LGBT issues, and be vocal about your support to coworkers. Also see if your company is willing to host an LGBT tech mixer with people from around the area. It’s a great way for the LGBT community to see your company as an inclusive place to work, and for you and your employees to meet other LGBT people in tech.I asked every company that gave me an offer if they provide LGBT inclusive services and benefits. It’s important for you to know as someone who will consume those services, and for the company to know that it is something that is important to you. Don’t be discouraged if the company you are interviewing with doesn’t offer these services yet, you could be their first LGBT employee! Making the company aware of what you need and making sure that they will be able to offer LGBT inclusive services is extremely important. You don’t want to work someplace that isn’t inclusive across the board.Reach out to Sharing stories, providing actionable ways for everyone to improve LGBTQ+ inclusivity in tech, and giving guidance to navigate the industry as a queer employee.

It just snuck up behind me…| Cofounder of Fittr. Illustrator of Tech Doodles. 1/3 of The Craft marketing newsletter. I love life and lemurs — and alliteration.Thoughts on tech and social norms that pop into my head and onto paper.

I am Julien Balmont, co-founder and CTO of September 2013, 10pm, while having a drink at the office (ok, while having This is how the conversation sounded like or at least how I remember it. And trust me, I had no clue that would be the beginning of the tragedy… We should have had a meeting (or several) with the team, get some feedbacks, third opinions, and more importantly, an estimate of the time needed. But you know, we were tired of our product and wanted to change to something new. NOW. For developers, “new version” means newer technologies, brand new code, brand new database. And I love challenges…I could say this was a difficult project, but it really was not. Launching a V2 does require a little bit of structure, preparation, and motivation. By sharing my experience on this, I hope you won’t make the same mistakes and just take some time to plan everything…Depending on the product and the volume of code, a new version can take weeks, or months (or even years?) For us, it’s been In a startup life, the development team who worked on the original product (interns, first employees, etc.) has usually changed when comes the new version. You may know what’s coming… but the newcomers don’t. And you need to prepare them.You absolutely need to find a way to prepare and motivate the whole team, before, during and after the project.It’s in our DNA to produce fast, fix some bugs, have many small tasks accomplished in one day. V2 is different. It’s a long-term project, but you need to cut this big cake. One part at a time, one task, one objective. I didn’t do this. I didn’t congratulate my team, show what they created already, brief them on the next step, etc. The only meetings I managed to do were to put more pressure on them. Not a smart move…During my whole career, — and that’s how I’ve been taught development during my first real job — I’ve always developed a sort of extremely AGILE way. You don’t write anything, you don’t prepare anything, but you make little steps working hand in hand with the product team. And until then, it always worked for me in small teams and small projects.Meetings with my developer team? While the team was working on the new version, I was working extinguishing fires, on the old version, and all the other projects, trying to fix everything and keep things going. So I just decided I didn’t have time to do meetings and I just skipped them. My team asked me so many times to have some specifications for each new functionality, to write down at least some information. But no. They had to figure out by themselves.A little bit of communication within the team would have led to sharing some good ideas and bits of code and could have saved so many times…New version means new technology. And what is better than one developer looking for the best option? Many developers looking for the best option! I decided to involve the whole team to make this choice. It did include some meetings and long discussion, but it was totally worth it. This challenge became their challenge and not an order coming from their +1. Were we talking about motivation? This is a great tool to boost your team.For us, it’s been a brand new PHP framework. We’ve changed from Zend Framework 1.12 (I knew it inside out so easy to work with but let’s face it: totally outdated) to LARAVEL 4.3.By the way, a few words for those who think PHP is outdated / so 2005 to try this framework out. The best PHP libraries have been used, rewrote, extended and gathered together as long as namespaces, closures, interfaces, a RESTful route system and so many wonderful things… In one word, AMAZING ! To try it is to love it.Without any designer and front-end developer, we had to work with a web design agency to help us on the product UX/UI, and integration of the Javascript. We wanted a good JS base to rely on so decided not to do it internally.Skills of the agency we worked with aside, we already knew what we wanted, but they kept pushing in another direction. They persisted in a wrong way with the UI, thinking their point of view was the best one. It’s true it is their expertise but we knew our customers. And they wouldn’t have been able to use this. After weeks and weeks of discussions, phone calls and back and forth, final new design has been sent to their integration team and the full package with JS/CSS/HTML delivered few weeks later. The result? it was incompletely done, there were missing parts, we ended up rewriting and refactoring most of the Javascript and we were already 2 months late on the original timing.This is the worst decision we made about this project. And the more I think about it, the less I understand how we made such a decision.We lost 2 months because of design issue but we still decided to go live with the new version on the D-day. Why? Because we chose this date 9 months ago. The reality? We were not ready at all. 70% of the new version was ready. Consequences? Change of plan. We had to make an incremental version upgrade, and keep using the old version. Because our customers had to go from V1 to V2, we had no other choice but modify all the V1 code to fit the new database scheme. What a waste of time!To sum up the situation: 70% of the new version was ready. Old version was also ready. Bridge between both versions was ready too.Finally the day of the migration came. Well, actually, the night of the migration. That night, I decided to take care of this all by myself. Me  My MacBook. Confident. It went surprisingly well. I tested everything, some data migration scripts took longer than planned, but no big dealBut the next morning…Clients calling from everywhere:Even worth, complains arrived from our customer support team himself. Not because of the amount of calls, but because of the new product, not working, not handy…So, here we are. V2 is online. Customers are complaining. We need to work well and fast. This, I can do. And so does all my team actually. But you need to make sure everyone who worked on the project is available and ready to help testing and fixing latest bugs.After this, we decided to adjust developments, to plan better and safer.We had a meeting with the product and the developer teams, to debrief and identify what we could have done to avoid all of this… It was THE moment to talk honestly, to accept being criticized.We decided to use SCRUM. Not all of it, as I still have issues with the daily meetings. We still have a small team, and with all the projects we have to deal with, I believe daily meetings would only be a waste of time. But we are in the right track, we can feel it!All the issues we’ve met may sound obvious to some of you. Or not. But if my feedbacks help at least one of you, developer, CTO, product manager, then I consider it worths it. We’re now 7 months after the launch, and looking back, this is one of best experience I had. We’ve learned so many things! It structured the team and the way we approach every project we have to start from now on. As i’m writing those lines, we’ve just launched a V2.5. A fresh new design on top of the V2. And a huge code optimization. And you know what? everything went fine ☺ 5 minutes deployment, no bug… So proud of all the team!Bi-monthly stories about code, tech and shared experiences. For developers. UT is brought to your by eFounders.co — startup studio building great SaaS startups.

Digital skills are essential to the growth of the tech sector, and by extension the growth of London. There are more people working in the technology and information sector in London and the surrounding regions than in all of California. The sector is an economic engine for London, and to fuel its continued growth, Londoners, beginning with primary school students, must be equipped with the digital skills needed to be a part of this success.It’s well documented that London is facing a serious skills gap, with more tech jobs available than skilled workers to fill them. And it’s not only tech jobs that require digital learning competency. Digital skills are a requirement in all industries to stay competitive in the 21st century economy.Creating pathways for people to become a part of the vibrant tech ecosystem in London is essential to ensuring London’s place as a leading digital city. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Mayor Boris Johnson discussed this candidly at last year’s Bloomberg Technology Summit and it’s been a focus of my work in London over the last nine months via Bloomberg Associates, a non-profit consultancy founded by Mayor Bloomberg to help city governments improve the quality of life of their citizens.As the Commissioner for the NYC Mayor’s Office of Media and Entertainment under Mayor Bloomberg, I saw first hand the need to better connect academic offerings with the needs of a quickly changing industry to produce a nimble, skilled workforce ready to benefit from the opportunities available in the digital sector. Now, at Bloomberg Associates I see this trend playing out around the world as we advise cities on how best to promote economic growth in the media and technology sectors.Mayors know that job creation and retention are essential to the well-being of their city, and with the expanded tech and information sector accounting for 30 percent of total London job gains since 2009 it’s no secret that tech is where the jobs are. London’s technology and information sector — which includes traditional tech companies as well as related media and information companies — employs 382,000 workers, an increase of 11 percent since 2009.The tech sector offers real economic impact and opportunity for a city and the effort of projects like this one to map out the ecosystem is an important part of the process. It will help better identify how to create viable pathways to 21st century careers.The data in this report will help all key stakeholders — from government, to academic and industry — make more informed and strategic investments in the digital learning ecosystem. Building public-private partnerships where stakeholders can contribute their expertise and thought leadership to creating a sustainable and robust set of offerings to Londoners will position the city for success, and that’s why I am so pleased to see Bloomberg Media, Bloomberg Associates, former Commissioner NYC Mayors Office of Media  Entertainment

If you want to start a career in technology and you can’t afford a “bootcamp” please read this.I have never met a software developer that was trained in a bootcamp but I have met 70+ people from all kinds of walk of life, without the need of formal engineering or arts education become designers and software developers by following tutorials, experimenting with stuff, asking on forums, I’m not saying this model works for 100% of the people, I’m not saying there shouldn’t be bootcamps, actually bootcamps are pretty awesome and I celebrate them! But privilege is far far away from reality in fields like software development or design. Why do I seem to be so convinced and passionate about it? Because I want more people in tech, from more diverse backgrounds, and these kind of excuses ( like bootcamps are expensive) are exactly the things some people internalize as fears and stop them from trying it! Well, it might also be because I was born in Mexico, in a really poor family where our restrictions were not only that we couldn’t afford a computer, it was more like my parents didn’t knew what we were going to eat the next day.Thanks to software development I live in New York City, I’m 22 years old I have a great job which allows me to have a good quality of life and most importantly: it allows my parents to never worry about what they’re going to eat ever again.My name is Mauricio Ruiz, I’m a technologist based in New York City and you can I like to observe people and I love technology. For now I’m just learning. 

I am a woman in tech. I am a founder, CEO and head of any and all important happenings at Now, my background is twofold — I So when, in 2012 I blindly entered the tech space, I hadn’t a clue. All this talk of entrepreneurs, female founders, and the rise of the NYC tech scene was news to me. I took it in stride, and absorbed everything I could like a sponge. I went to every networking event I could squeeze into my schedule. The point is, with all the talk about women in tech, After recently reading And that’s the ledge I stand on most days when it comes to But I believe in my product. I believe in my team. I believe in So what’s a female founder to do? What are our choices? What do you think?Notes from our Founder, Michele Spiezia

Additions and comments welcome below. It is worth noting that attending events does not alone improve the chances for success.03(Tue)-05 November 201511(Wed)-12 November 201512(Thu)-13 November 201507(Mon)-08 December 2015Last in 17(Sun)-19 January 201622(Mon)–25 February 201617(Thu)-19 March 201624(Tue)–25 May 201626(Thu)–27 May 201614(Tue) June 201625(Sun)-27 September 2016For reference, from earlier this year:18(Sun)-20 January 2015Last in 02(Mon)-05 February 201510(Tue)-11 February 201512(Thu)–13 February 201520(Fri) February 201502(Mon)–05 March 201513(Fri)–14 March 201519(Thu)–20 March 201517(Fri)-18 April 201523(Thu)–24 April 201529(Wed) April 201505(Tue) May 201508(Fri)–09 May 201511(Mon)-13 May 201526(Tue)–27 May 201528(Thu)–29 May 201509(Tue)-10 June 201516(Tue) June 201517(Wed)-19 June 201523(Tue)-24 June 2015Thanks to whoever created 15(Wed)-17 July 2015No major events.02(Wed)–03 September 201524(Thu)–25 September 201527(Sun)-29 September 201508(Thu)-09 October 2015Some good points by Mark Suster on launching your product at a conference Additions and thoughts are welcome!VC 

Ilya Gelfenbeyn is the Founder and CEO of The human voice is the most natural tool available to engage and connect with the world around us, but until recently there has been an impassable void between the human voice and technology. The film The Let’s take a look at 4 reasons why voice is a must-have feature for developers making software, apps and hardware right now:1. Furthermore, tAfter years of uncertainty and ambivalence about smartphone voice-activated assistants, adoption is here, especially among teenagers. 3.Voice capabilities significantly enhance the accessibility of apps for people who have trouble with text. They accommodate a larger base of users, especially in the world’s huge, underserved markets. The The potential of apps to serve underserved populations is not exclusive to developing countries. 4. Consider the living room. We now have an unprecedented amount of content to choose from when looking for something to watch, which makes finding what you want that much harder. That’s why companies like But this is just the start. With the Do you use voice-enabled services? What do you see as voice technology’s future potential?CEO and Founder at api.ai

There was a talk at the Velocity Conference a couple of weeks ago in Santa Clara where that exact exercise was done.Either Etsy is a monolith or it is a shining example of what service-oriented architecture looks like and/or microservices, depending on who you ask. Frankly, I find the beginning assumptions around this particular topic to be a massive distraction. I have differing opinions There are a couple things. One, it unnecessarily paints architecture into binary camps. I think that anybody who’s at all worked with scale and anybody who’s evolved systems to scale knows that architectures are context-specific.For example, a good friend of mine runs and has run an electronic trading exchange. You could imagine his goals and constraints when designing an electronic trading exchange are very different than, say, Facebook. Facebook might be very different architecturally because they have different constraints than Amazon. And Amazon might be different than even Etsy.When you have a conversation that unnecessarily paints the discussion as, “Are you micro-services or are you a monolith?” then it wipes away all of the context-specificity. Which you actually have no real way of talking inspecifics.The reason why I think it’s a distraction is because — and I see this all the time — when somebody says, “Well, we take a microservices architecture view, and here are the reasons why we do it,” you’ve got to get pretty far into the conversation before you actually see how it’s built. You’ll have them whiteboard it or show you a diagram — not a conceptual diagram, an actual diagram with specifics — then you look back and you say, “That is not actually the diagram of what I would imagine something microservices are.”How much did you talk about the architecture and how much did you really just repair your shared misunderstanding of definitions? I guess what I’m saying is that it’s too abstract. It’s fine if you want to talk about an approach, but it’s under-specified. The advantages and disadvantages of microservices, and the advantages and disadvantages of a monolithic architecture — even if you can agree on what definitions look like — are so context-specific that I’d almost rather just get out from underneath the abstractions and talk specifics from the get-go.I’m saying that usually this topic is around architectural choices. It’s quite reasonable and fine to put those within the context of organizational decisions, which is great. Usually this is where people will trot out One of the things that you’ll see us talk about in a number of places is that we want to exploit the advantages of having a relatively finite number of well-known tools. For example, is PHP the right language for the majority of the web app? Almost certainly not. Can we find places where a different language would be more optimal? Absolutely.It’s that nuance of knowing that the advantages of being more optimal do not outweigh the advantages of using the same language a lot. There are other languages at play at Etsy, but as far as the guts of the API and the web application, it is largely PHP. There’s a huge advantage in that, a massive advantage.In the same way, there’s a massive advantage in using a default data store, MySQL. Is it the right data store for storing, say, favorites or listings data? Is it the right data store for storing shop statistics? Almost certainly not. But the advantages of storing it in a shared — we would call it sharded, federated, distributed — data store.If the default is MySQL, then we get to reap all of these benefits. It means that is an engineer goes from one team to another, they’re not going to have to relearn everything.If you want to integrate the feature you’re working on with a feature that somebody else is working on, then you can inspect, you can reason about other people’s code because it’s a lot of the same programming patterns. The data is stored in roughly the same place.I think you can make the argument that Google, with its use of BigTable and its own data stores, does the exact same thing. I don’t think that you would say, “I can’t believe how monolithic Google is.”There’s a couple of ways to look at it. If you think of the evolution of a technical infrastructure of a growing web property, then there are these identifiable episodes in the evolution. You’re either making a relational database work in a distributed way, or you’re not. To be fair, at a high level, we don’t take a much different approach to federating data across many MySQL servers than does Facebook.That’s more about the architectural pattern than it is about any of the tech. … For example, instead of having all of Etsy in one database server, usually the next thing people do is, “All right, let’s take our favorites, listings and user profiles. Then we’ll get one database for user profiles, one database for favorites, and one database for listings.”That functional partitioning also has an expiration date on it. Then you have to take the leap to make it so that we’re going to store the majority of Etsy across many, many machines and make it so we can balance data between them.None of that is really MySQL-specific. There are some tips and tricks, certainly. You’re going to want backups to work the way you expect them to. You have to do extra work in the application, like finding the database server that has the data you’re looking for.But, again, that’s really just an architectural pattern. At that point you’re using the database as a reasonably done data store, which is you want because you want it to be really good at being stable. You want it to really be good at being reliable. All the other levers you’ll be putting in your application anyway.It could be any other database really. There’s nothing special about MySQL.I’ll be even more descriptive about it. I would say that we If I find myself trying to unscrew a screw with the end of a hammer, then it’s probably time for me to think, “Well, this effort is not going to be worth it. I’m going to need a screwdriver.” Having said that, it also doesn’t mean that I’ve got 1,000 hammers — one for marble, one for balsa wood, one for plaster.It’s not like an edict that says, “These are the blessed tools and everything else is forbidden.”Instead, what we do is we do process-wise, or largely culturally, is we identify use cases that are departures from the norm. An engineer says, “Here’s this problem. I don’t think I can solve it with PHP, MySQL and Linux … or Hadoop or Lucene or whatever.“Here’s what I tried. I tried to use those things, and here’s where they fell down and I don’t think they’re good. I really don’t want to use anything new, at least without any good reason.“So, everybody, my peers in engineering, does anybody else have any good ideas? I think I’ve landed on this new piece of software. I just want to make sure before I keep going with this that everybody knows that this is a thing that we’re all willing to get good at.”Redis — and this was a number of years ago — was one of those departures. Elasticsearch has been one of those departures. Sharded Solr is one. About half of our search is in Solr, half of it is in Elasticsearch. There’s some various storage engines that are a part of MySQL that were departures.The thing is, when you pull something shiny and new off the shelf, there can be operational overhead. If it breaks and you’re the only one who knows how it works, then it probably wasn’t a great technical choice. It can be a really good technical choice if you’re planning for an optimal future. We don’t want to plan for an optimal future.We want to plan for a world where stuff breaks all the time. And we want to make it so that when things break they matter a lot less, that they’re not critical. That they break and we can fix them and we can adapt and be resilient.One of the ways that we do that is taking a critical-thinking look at the choices that we make. We don’t want to have choices made by the very well meaning, well intentioned, but very enthusiastic engineer who didn’t think everything through. No single engineer is going to think of all the contingencies. That’s why we want to take a much more diverse look.Then when we say, “Alright, this is the thing. Redis — we’re going to use it. Here’s where we’re going to use it. Here’s where we’re going to get good.” Then we’re actually going to get good at it, which means that we’ve got a lot more confidence.Sort of. I’d put it this way: I personally would take the same approach if I were hiring carpenters to build a house. I want the carpenters to be psyched to get on the job because of what the design of the house is and the challenges. We’ve got to build this museum on the edge of the cliff.I would rather have those carpenters because they’re really passionate about solving hard problems, given the choice between them and those candidates who say, “I don’t care what I build. I just need to use the laser nail gun. I don’t care if it’s an outhouse. I don’t care if it’s a barn.”Those engineers will have a lot more cognitive space. They’ll also have a lot more focus of attention on solving the problems, not on a particular chit. The song matters more than the guitar.But there’s nothing that says you’re not going to work with tools that are going to be great for solving particular problems. In fact, we write a lot of our own tools because we can’t find the tools that really fit our use case.As it turns out, there’s a lot of The more well-known one that we’ve been talking about recently is recommendations. We’re not a regular e-commerce site. We’ve got millions and millions and millions of unique things as opposed to a very small number of unique categories.It’s At a high level, we have mostly, but not all, on-premise server capacity. We still use the colocation facilities and that sort of thing. Having said that, we are a heavy user of Amazon’s S3 for the storing of a long tail of images because that’s easy. We’ve used various tricks in order to insulate us from issues that Amazon might have or that S3 might have.Largely, we get our own servers. We do have a We’ve done a number of blog posts around our hardware choices. We’ve done a couple of blog posts around our big data stack.That’s one thing worth mentioning. What a lot of folks — us included — did when it became a thing was use Elastic MapReduce in AWS for a lot of analytics jobs. But then over time we effectively outgrew it. We were going to be loads more efficient by having it in-house on a new cluster. That’s been solidified for a couple of years now. We’re reasonably happy with that. It works, and it’s quite good.Like a lot of companies that decide to remain on bare metal, we just have the staff to make those efficiencies. We just exploit being on bare metal very, very well. We’re quite good about making sure that workloads are appropriate.Remember, we’re not a news website. The use case of spinning instances up and spinning instances down in the cloud is not really a use case that we have — largely because we’ve been around this long. We can reap the benefits of bare metal a lot more than having to move our infrastructure to the cloud.Largely it’s about being faster. We can eke out more. It helps to have the author of PHP working at the company, I’ll give you that. We can handle on a per-node basis a lot more than going with a general purpose infrastructure-as-a-service provider.Periodically we’ll do the math and try to figure out, from a financial standpoint, if would it be more efficient to go to cloud. Again, I guess because our workloads are reasonably predictable, we just do some plain old capacity planning, and it works.The answer, I would say is that it’s different in some really exciting ways.Let’s take Flickr. There are a couple of differences that change the expectations of the person using the site. In the case of Flickr, you’ve got content producers — people who take photos. Then you have the people who are looking at the photos. That overlap is a lot closer to 1:1 than it might be at Etsy if you were to look through the lens of a buyer and through the lens of a seller.If you’re a seller on Etsy, uploading photos and listing things for sale involves a whole bunch of activities that are very specific and need to just work. As far as fault tolerance is concerned, it’s better to fail closed than to fail open.What do I mean by that? If I’m listing a table for sale, there’s a whole bunch that goes in that: I’m going to give you the description; I’m going to give you the title; I’m going to tell you about the materials; I’m going to tell you about where I ship; I’m going to give you the policies around what I have from my store and that sort of thing.This is very different than “I’m going to upload a photo.” When you upload a photo, it either works or it doesn’t. When you upload a photo on Flickr you don’t have to review it. You’ve uploaded it. It actually can’t go away. No one buys it, and then it’s no longer there anymore.In order to make sure that there’s an acceptable experience, especially in the face of degradation, you take a different approach with graceful degradation. At Flickr, if something was broken — let’s say favoriting was broken — we would turn off favoriting in order to save the rest of the site. You just couldn’t favorite. We do that for a lot. Because consumers and producers are the same, largely, we could do those things evenly.Whereas on Etsy we have to think about things a little bit differently. If something is wrong with listing things, buying things and searching things could totally be fine because we’ve decoupled those things specifically. Maybe sellers can’t upload new listings or renew the listings if something’s broken, but no one knows that except for the sellers.I think the answer to your question is that we will architect forfailure cases differently in the case of Etsy than you would at Flickr, maybe even other companies. It’s an over-simplification to say that it’s because money is involved, but that certainly plays into it.There’s at least two ways I would answer that. The first one is not likely to be very satisfying: it depends, of course, on where I would go. If I went to work at a trading exchange, I might take a very, very different approach.If I were to work at a different e-commerce company, which I can’t imagine doing, there’s a huge amount of architectural patterns that I would simply use again because they are battle-tested, they are well-worn. It is unlikely that from an architectural pattern, they would look significantly different than what we’ve built here, which is more probably about our critical-thinking approaches than any given technology.The absolute one thing that I would do exactly the same is that in five-plus years now at Etsy, I am still overjoyed to see that the approaches we take to software development — to operations and security and all of these things — is they’re truly human-centric. That is to say that we don’t simply punt on solving hard problems. We don’t believe in the search for a magic algorithm.Algorithms and things like machine learning and deep learning, these are all quite important, but they are only tools in a box. The thing that I would do at any other company is to write software for people to reason about.I’ll paint a stark picture: Given a piece of code that is absolutely optimal — it is faster than any other piece of code that does the exact same thing on earth, only no one knows now it works except the author — versus a piece of code that was written by someone in order for it to be augmented, modified, adapted, flexible and all of these things, I would take the latter.We want infrastructure and code to be adaptive. Not adaptive in an artificial intelligence singularity way, but adaptive in that it’s malleable. We’ll be able to bend it to our will very easily.That’s the thing I’ve learned. That’s what I would take away. Sorry for being vague, but I think it’s hugely important.Senior research analyst at Mesosphere; one-time senior writer at Gigaom; J.D.; thai boxerWhat’s next in computing, told by the people behind the software

Of course companies should strive for age diversity, “even in a field as innovation-crazy as tech.” Make that Research on diversity in general shows that being around people who are different from us also makes us more diligent and harder-working, not to mention more open-minded. Diverse teams make better decisions because they draw on more data and more perspectives. So how on earth did experience become a dirty word? Why does the blindingly obvious point that age should be a criterion for diversity — alongside race, gender, ability, and sexual orientation — take people by surprise?Because it simply hasn’t occurred to them. Just like it hasn’t occurred to those Federal bean counters who don’t collect age data. Age discrimination isn’t good for companies and it’s not good for people, but it’s not on the map yet. Sexism and racism and homophobia no longer get a pass because most people acknowledge that discrimination makes life harder for women and minorities. But most of them have yet to think about how culture also shapes the experience of growing older. And this culture’s obsession with the young and new and fast and shiny makes aging in America a whole lot harder than it has to be.As you describe, Silicon Valley epitomizes and valorizes youth culture. Tech workers attempt to “pass” for younger for the same reasons that people of color sometimes passed for white: to attain or retain privilege, and to escape prejudice. It’s illegal to ask for a job applicant’s age, but employers routinely advertise for “digital natives,” which Wikipedia defines as people born after 1980. (In Silicon Valley, “old”= no-longer-young; tech years are like dog years.) The practice is elitist and ageist because it assumes that digital immigrants — i.e. older people — couldn’t possibly be comfortable with new technology, which is manifestly untrue.Other ageist stereotypes abound: that older workers are less productive, less dependable, less committed, less teachable, and less creative, to name only a few. Not one holds up under scrutiny. In fact older employees typically trounce their younger colleagues on every measure of job performance, according to Peter Cappelli, Wharton professor and co-author of Diversity became a buzzword because society grew less tolerant of racism and sexism and homophobia. Progressive companies realized they had to walk the walk. (A friend in workforce policy calls this the “shoe test:” look under the table, and if everyone’s wearing the same kind of shoes, whether wing-tips or flipflops, you’ve got a problem.) We want different faces at the table and different shoes under it because we don’t think access to opportunity should depend on what someone looks like. Graying hair and wrinkles count. Even starter wrinkles, like the ones the guy in the The Bay Area’s extreme obsession with youth is no more palatable than standard-issue bias against people with dark skin or a vagina or who use a wheelchair. Yet it wasn’t until people at the top of the food chain — smart, skilled, straight, well-paid, non-disabled white guys So how can we achieve age diversity in Silicon Valley?By hiring and holding onto older workers, obviously. This means offering flexible hours, increasing accessibility, providing training, and helping people transition to part-time employment. Arrangements like these benefit other workers too: parents of young children, caregivers for people of all ages, and anyone else struggling for work-life balance in the era of always-on. Companies also benefit. Organizations that don’t discriminate aren’t just better places to work, they work better. Managers don’t want to come up short when a project calls for a range of talents and backgrounds, and smart ones know that an age-diverse team is most likely to deliver it. Older people use and need technology, and not just “age-independence technology,” which is booming, but software and devices that will help us get jobs and get laid and get where we’re going, just like everyone else. Those products will work better and sell better if older users help design them.It’s in our enlightened self-interest as well: everyone who is aging — this means you — will end up depending on some of these products. It’s also in our self-interest to help older people stay on the job, because it benefits the economy and the federal budget. When they can’t find work, many become economically dependent, contributing to the misperception that olders are a net burden to society. It’s not by choice.What is achieving age diversity really going to take? Nothing less than a mass movement like the ones that woke us up to the entrenched systems of racism and sexism around us. We still have a long way to go on all these fronts, as you say, but thanks to attention from people like you and Bill Maher and Madonna, an anti-ageism movement is gaining traction.Confronting ageism begins with examining our own prejudices. Olders, for example, may not like being managed someone young enough to be a grandchild, and youngers bridle at sharing an office with someone their mom’s age. Suck it up and find out what you have in common. Confronting ageism means seeing older people not as alien and “other” but as us — future us, that is — and making friends of all ages. It means speaking up when you encounter ageism — if everyone in the room is the same age, for example, unless there’s a legitimate reason. (Bad reasons: because it’s a Unicorn startup, or because you’re working on an achingly hip mobile app.) Confronting ageism means making the world a better place to live in, not just for people in tech and not just for people on the “wrong” side of some imaginary old/young divide. Longevity is here to stay. Everyone is aging. It’s time.Calling for a radical aging movement. Anti-ageism blog+talk+book

I cant agree more. Like you, I dont have solutions. But I have examples from my life as a woman in tech that show that there is so much room for improvement:While growing up in India, women studying engineering was very normal. Everyone around me was doing it. I think there was a strong push from middle-class Indian parents for girls to study either medicine or engineering — and if you dont do either of the two, you are considered to be less successful — so it was really the other extreme.My mother was similar to yours — she brought in more income than my dad, a Doctor, as she held several high profile managerial positions in tech companies and would meet rich, famous and influential people on a daily basis. So I was really used to women being in powerful positions.Things changed when I moved to New Zealand. When I told people I was studying Software Engineering, they would say, “ooooooooh”. They werent used to women in tech and were so surprised to hear that I chose engineering. To me, it was normal — almost obvious as Id been pre-programmed to choose tech. But to New Zealanders, I was the odd one out. There were 5 women in my class of 30 out of which 2 hardly attended class. So there were just 3 of us, completely outnumbered. So we changed — I wore a dark grey hoodie, jeans and sneakers and stopped dressing “pretty” so that I could blend. I started playing FPS games and went to LAN parties. I started reading up on geeky things so that I could be one amongst the guys. And given that I was quite tomboyish as a kid, I fit right in. The sad part is, none of the guys did anything to make sure they fit in with us.My first job out of school was with New Zealand’s largest healthcare product company. There were 4 women in the entire floor (50~ devs). By then, I was used to being the only woman in meetings. I was the first female engineer and second Indian at my current company — two tech minorities packed into one! I used to play a lot of Table Tennis in my previous company, but I didn’t here as it was always dominated by guys and I wasn’t sure who to ask. No one asked me if I could play. During happy hour, all the male devs would chat with their teams, and since my team was completely remote, I started skipping the happy hours.When I found out I was pregnant, I was really not looking forward to be the first one to “look pregnant” in a predominantly male office. I had no idea what to expect and thought it would be awkward. I was so relieved to find out that two others were pregnant before me. However, it turned out that everyone in the office was SUPER supportive during my pregnancy and it wasnt awkward at all. If I had seen more women in tech, more pregnant women in offices, and had more women in my team and my meetings, maybe I wouldnt have felt awkward about it — pregnancy is meant to be celebrated!And yes, I was concerned that taking time off for my “disability due to childbirth” as the state calls it (ugh), would slow my career growth. I would have had no reason to be worried if my male counterparts also took 4 months off as paternity leave. It is sad that childbirth is still not the family’s problem — just the woman’s problem like you said. My husband got two weeks off from work to raise OUR child. We can do so much better.Regarding unequal pay: I do so much these days. I get 5 and half hours of sleep at night as my baby wakes me up a couple of times to be fed. I wake up at 6. Feed the baby. Clean and pack all the breastpump parts. Lug the heavy pump to the Caltrain station. Take a hour long train to work and work on the train. At work, I have to pump every 3 hours while still meeting all my release deadlines, stay alert in all meetings even if Im sleep deprived — all the while staying under the caffeine limit for breastfeeding mothers.Back home, I spend another 3 hours with the baby, bathe, feed, swaddle and put him to bed, and then hop back online at 9pm to continue work till midnight. As another example, I took up a professional course in SF when my baby was just 7 weeks old. I would drive for an hour to the city every weekend for class, pump milk for my baby in the phone booth every time we took a break, and I topped my class in spite of all the things I had to worry about.Sometimes the logistics are so overwhelming that it’s tempting to plonk on a couch and do nothing. But I show up, I hustle, I kick ass. If anything, new mothers should be paid more because they get shit done in spite of the unfathomable complexities that come with raising a baby.Being a woman in tech is tough, but they are already making it work and knocking it out of the ballpark. Can you imagine how much more women would achieve if tech-life passed the Bechdel test? Mind blowing.Android Developer 

A growing number of organizations have become driving forces behind Computer programming and web development can be just as rewarding to teach as it is to learn. Use this guide as a foundation to deliver engaging workshops suited to meet the unique needs and objectives of the girls your in community.Whether you’re planning a 1-hour coding camp, or a series of web development classes, here you’ll find plenty of tips, reference links and presentation media, to help you plan an inspiring technology workshop.A basic understanding of computer programming is a strong complement to any skill set, and it comes with a potent dose of self-empowerment. Prepare for your workshop by sharpening your skills and gathering the tools, information and resources you’ll need to keep girls engaged. Set them on a path of learning and growth in technology.Connect with the girls by sharing your interests and discovering theirs. This will help you pinpoint tools and technologies directly related to the hobbies and activities they enjoy. Most of us rely on different types technologies for information, convenience and entertainment throughout the day. They’ll have fun sharing and discussing the technologies they use regularly, and are most familiar with.You’ve connected with the girls, discovered their interests, and piqued their curiosities. Now encourage them to discuss ideas and explore the possibilities of creating NEW technologies. Show them how their interests can become fun hobbies and rewarding careers at any age.Engage the girls in a discussion about the gamut of professions and careers that bring us cool tech toys, games and gadgets. Visit popular websites and talk about how careers in technology impact and influence society’s daily computing needs. Discuss the basic differences between frontend and backend development. Walk the girls through a sequence of steps that illustrate how web developers work together to create the products and services that we use every day.Send the girls off beaming with enthusiasm, and viewing the world with greater tech awareness. Demonstrate practical and easily accessible methods for learning web development and computer programming on their own. Encourage the girls to connect with other tech-centric kids by discovering clubs and organizations at school, summer camps, and afterschool programs. Talk with them about sharing knowledge with others, and the fun and rewarding benefits of being an active member of the coding community.Economic imbalances, unemployment and antiquated educational frameworks have stifled the learning process just as engineering jobs and tech-related opportunities are skyrocketing. It’s more important than ever for women and girls to move beyond mere consumers of technology. Computer programming literacy is vital to the lifeblood of our economy, and should be on everyone’s list of skills to acquire regardless of age or gender.Encouraging girls to consider hobbies and careers in technology will go a long way with empowering women, and shaping our world. Interestingly, if the number of women earning degrees were proportional to the number women represented in technology-related careers, women would more than double the number of qualified tech professionals necessary to begin revitalizing the American workforce. More female programmers and engineers means more role models for young girls pursuing careers in technology.Let’s raise our expectations for girls, and challenge them to see a world full of new possibilities. By training girls to recognize tech opportunities, we broaden our collective scope, and invite feminine passions into emerging technologies. So encourage them to be “girly-girls” AND coding connoisseurs. Help ensure that every girl knows that she has something unique and valuable to share, and that her contributions are vital to the progression of technology. The world is a better place because SHE has left HER impression.I’m a writer. And a web design strategist… and a technology trainer. Oh, and I dig all of that computer tech, code, web dev, nerd-gadget stuff too.

Marc Andressen has one of the thinnest skins in tech. He blocked me after I asked him if Andressen Horowitz provided any sort of management training to their portfolio companies after the fiasco at GitHub last year with Preston-Werner.Tech geek, political junkie, gay, LGBT activist, entrepreneur.

A new kind of technologist is arising, one that is defining how companies that define the market are defined. Interestingly enough this new phenomenon is totally happening under the radar of the traditional media firms that report on the tech industry.Who are these new technologists?Meet the Proto-preneurs were there before your startup happened. While you were thinking which bricks needed laying in order to get your start-up up and running, the proto-preneurs had already shaped those bricks and were handling them over to you to use; The proto-preneurs are those developers that build the tools on which modern, founded, start-ups are built on. They are the elite of open source development, but make no mistake, this is not about being the best coder, but about being the coder that solves the right problem. Not every open-source developer is a proto-preneur; proto-preneurship is not meassured in Github stars, but in backed start-ups built on the tech laid by a proto-preneur.Proto-preneurs, as the name indicates, like to be pioneers in everything they do (proto: first, before everything). They were the The world wide web was well served by Apache, but along came Nginx, to satisfy the future needs of scalability; an awkward relational language tried to be the standard for querying data on the web, but then I can keep going…The point is that while many of us were content swimming inside a warm ocean of status quo, there were proto-preneurs out there stretching the limits of what was technically possible to build the tools of tomorrow.We didn’t know them. We didn’t notice them. They didn’t ask for credit. They just built tools for us to use. Now is time to embrace this turba. It’s time to growth-hack ourselves into proto-preneurship.Become a proto-preneur.Señor Data Grande Ingeniero

It’s fair to say that I’ve been to over a hundred tech/entrepreneurship conferences, summits, meetups, happy hours, hackathons, etc. at this point. I’ve seen a variety of branding, missions, and structures centered on bringing people together in-person around the shared interests of using tech and entrepreneurship to make a difference in the world, or to be honest: “Just do cool sh*t.”But a new conference — one I just left about an hour ago — was different. In fact, it was like nothing I’d ever seen before. Over the past two days, 350 conference attendees and 500 career fair participants from around the country descended upon the tech capital of the world — San Francisco — to “explore innovative solutions to tech diversity and inclusion.”And here’s why…I also think it’s important to share some key learnings, so that others who are interested in creating more diverse and inclusive workplaces can benefit from the event. So…I hope this was insightful, and for anyone else who was present for the conference, please do contribute your biggest takeaways in the comments section below. There was a wealth of knowledge shared over the past two days, and I know I didn’t capture it all, so I’d appreciate you filling in the gaps I left.Lastly, be sure to check out P.S. While we’re on the topic of diversity and inclusion, I better let you know thatCheck out my new site, Portfolio Services Director at Kapor Capital | Founder of The Startup Couch | Forbes 30 Under 30 | TEDx Presenter | Women learning the hard way. Submissions to 

tech tech facebook bark bark im a fucking dogThat’s my name.

In Brisbane, Australia, I helped Caesars Casino design an iBeacon Scavenger Hunt app. In New Delhi, I helped create one of India’s first point-of-sale mobile payment apps, Hopefully I’m a little wiser for it all.There are two aspects of the Indian culture that universally everyone finds confusing.The wobble (explained in If you ask “Can I have something by 1700 hours tonight?” and they respond with a head wobble, they are saying “I understand you want this by 17h”. But they have not said they will have it done by then.While working in India you may be disappointed when someone misses a deadline. The problem is ‘Yes’ is the default answer. When other cultures might push back and ask for more time, Indian people will say “Yes” and struggle to meet that deadline.Communication is important. Make sure you understand what your Indian colleagues are telling you.Whatever job you’re doing you should be prepared to have unreliable internet. Bad connections, power outages, and spotty wifi are normal.You can still do video calls, phone calls, and back-and-forth messaging, but if you drop off suddenly and don’t reappear for an hour, thats normal.When I first arrived in New Delhi, I had a client call with Chicago. The only phone I had was my Google Voice which required my laptop and wifi. Despite being in an office building and having solid wifi, our 10 minute call lasted an hour with at least 10 disconnects.As soon as your arrive in India, or travel to any new state in India, buy a new cellphone plan! Ideally buy them in the airports ✈, because it will never be easier than buying it there.If they ask for a reference of someone you know in India, ask someone from the kiosks or someone else in the airport. People are very friendly and will gladly help you.Buying a Wireless USB Card requires you already have a cell phone and you have a local resident for reference on your application. For this reason, if you already have a local friend, this will be much easier for you.Look ahead in your schedule to find when you’re going to have important phone calls or meetings. As best you can, figure out where you’ll be and if you’ll have access to an office, hotel or *Starbucks when you’re there.* Product Designer at 

Sadly, this counts for progress in the male-dominated tech startup world: Of the 84 so-called “unicorn” U.S. companies — startups valued at $1 billion or more — two have women CEOs, according to a new analysis published in The two newcomers are Adi Tadarko, the chief executive and cofounder of home design site These startups are called “unicorns” because they’re so rare and so prized — members include Uber, Instacart and Slack — but the analysis reveals what’s truly hard to find: a billion-dollar, woman-led venture. It also highlights what is, by now, a well-known problem in both the tech and business world: the shocking Two years ago, “So while 2.4% of CEOs is little to celebrate, this is an improvement from zero,” she writes.It’s not much better at big, established companies. Only 4.6 percent of Fortune 500 companies are led by women.The reason there are so few female CEOs is not, as some will inevitably mansplain to me on Twitter, simply because men have the best and most valuable ideas. Sorry!The situation is actually more complex — but it boils down to a systemic bias for male entrepreneurs that begins from theThe people making funding decisions are typically male — 95 percent of investors, according to this A recent study by researchers at This leads to a big bias in terms of who gets the money, and you need lots of investor money to make it to unicorn status.“Fundraising decisions are often made off of little more than ‘gut instinct,’ and research shows that these gut instincts There’s a lack of women on the boards of unicorn companies as well — 30 percent have no women on their boards, according to Lee’s analysis. A different analysis from As awareness of the problem grows, so, too, does the possibility of a solution. Just last week, one woman launched a company called Hopefully, it’ll get funding.internet lovers | sleep believers | news addicts | big font obsessives | greek yogurt fans

The Bureau of Labor Statistics projects a whopping 22.8 percent employment growth for software developers between 2012 and 2022. The demand for developers has expanded beyond their traditional role, now designers and marketers are getting in on the coding action. Since product and marketing are directly correlated, they work together to close the feedback loop of need and solution.The contrast of coding and marketing strategy may seem like different worlds, but an effective business strategy seamlessly plays to both strengths. What is it like to work in marketing at a tech company? Does such a marketer need technical skills like coding to be effective at their role? Marketing executives working in technology offer their experienced insights.Sherry Chao, Marketing Director at It is increasingly common for marketers to acquire technical skills through online and in the classroom courses, as well as on the job training. The emergence of new technology that effectively helps optimize processes through data is coming to the surface quickly, and now these online tools are more effective than ever.To keep pace with the new landscape of technical marketing, some may say that it makes sense for marketers to pick up new skills that were once kept in a developer’s domain. However, others believe that these marketing tools help marketers make more powerful use of analytics and save time, so that they can focus on what marketers do best: communications, strategy, and message.“While I don’t believe you need technical skills to be successful in marketing,” Ryan Luckin, Head of Marketing and Communications at Natalie Edwards, Marketing Manager at “Tech skills will help you, just as a handful of examples, create great landing pages, leverage APIs to learn more about your customers, use SQL to organize your data, send free automated emails, amplify press releases and content, use scripts to capture more email addresses, and create viral referral campaigns,” Natalie points out. Vik Panda, VP of Marketing at However, nobody wants to be a Jack of all trades but a master of none. The rising trend of marketers who code may detract but the main goal of marketing: communicating the value of the brand to its target market. Ellen Clemons, Senior Marketing Manager at “You don’t need to know how to sew to sell clothes. You don’t need to understand chemistry to sell makeup, perfume, or cleaning products. You need to understand the problem that these products or services are solving for your target market. It is no different in tech. You do not need to know how to write code to sell software that will improve someone’s life, you just need to know what keeps them up at night.”She also finds that there may be misunderstandings about “non-technical” people in the tech industry. “Am I technical meaning do I know how to code?” she asks. “No. Am I technical in that I can talk about tech and sound intelligent and respectable? I like to think so. The latter is what is crucial to your success in marketing in the tech field.”What do you think, does a marketer have to have technical skills at a tech company?Life enthusiast / VP of Marketing JotForm related.  Ideas. Stories. User guides. From the founder of JotForm and others.

People are not corner cases; treat everyone with respect.When I worked retail, my store hired a veteran. He was built sturdy, and had the whole macho thing going, so I was surprised one day when I came up behind him, tapped him on the shoulder, and he screamed.I had been wearing particularly silent sneakers as I walked over the carpeted floor, and hadn’t been thinking that I was outside his peripheral vision. I’d never met anyone with PTSD, and being sensitive to his needs wasn’t anywhere on my radar.When he spun around, though, looking as if he were about to attack, I realized that I’d better start being sensitive.Sometimes, to accommodate everyone’s needs, you have to think outside your own comfort zone. Some things won’t necessarily occur to you. I was the first person at work to point out that holding a surprise birthday party for our vet (and jumping out from behind the couch in the break room) might not be the best idea. But I knew from past experience.YouTube has not yet figured out that the horror movie advertisements that it allows to play before music videos, lectures, or other innocuous content are not sensitive to their users. Children, regular old scardy-cats like me, and people suffering post traumatic stress disorder will be negatively affected by the sudden pump of adrenaline that a face popping out of your phone or computer screen causes to shoot through your veins.I can deal with it. Children, yeah, modern children see a lot. I doubt you’ll scar them for life. But think for a minute what someone suffering from post traumatic stress disorder goes through.It might be difficult to fully imagine.Cofounder of Fittr. Illustrator of Tech Doodles. 1/3 of The Craft marketing newsletter. I love life and lemurs — and alliteration.Thoughts on tech and social norms that pop into my head and onto paper.

“To summarize, the trick to persuading a great CTO is to be a great CEO. Sounds obvious, but many entrepreneurs I’ve met focus on all the wrong things. If you want to attract top technical talent, work on these 10 things and you’ll be surprised by the results.Recruiting is tough. It’s time consuming. It involves a lot of rejection, sales, phone calls, and negotiations. Your typical CTO, while helpful in technical interviews and possible referrals, is unlikely to want to spend time recruiting talent. In my experience, your ability to build a world-class team as the CEO will go a long way in impressing the CTO.Most CTOs I’ve met are terrible fundraisers. The ability to code is one thing, but the ability to convince someone to cut you a check is an entirely different one. Coming to the table as someone who has raised capital before, or invoking confidence in the ability to do so will go a long way in your efforts to attract the best.I’ve been on Fox Business, written up in TechCrunch and Forbes, featured in Fast Company and Entrepreneur Magazine, etc, etc, etc. Getting good press can be vital to an early business and showing your CTO that you’re able to network and execute on write-ups is both good for the company as well as important in letting them know the work they do will be showcased globally.The CTO is going to lead the effort in building the product, but that doesn’t mean they’re a visionary. Being a good CEO means product development, ideation, creative problem solving and offering thoughts on how to architect the solution. If you want to work with a great CTO, be ready to dive into product discussions sift through the weeds.In a startup, someone needs to take out the trash. Someone needs to order business cards, make sure the WiFi works, and handle other loose ends. If you keep the printer stocked and make sure logistics are in order, that’s one less distraction your CTO would otherwise have to deal with.I’m putting these together because they both involve being outgoing and social. As a startup, the biggest problem you face is no one knows you exist. Through social media and networking you need to build brand awareness, gain a following, let the world know who you are and what you do. As CEO, this is a great way to show your value doing something most CTOs wouldn’t enjoy.Every startup will have to handle contracts. Unfortunately many startups will also have to deal with law suits. Trust me, these are not tasks anyone wants to do, least of which is your CTO. By owning these tasks and doing a good job you’ll gain the respect of your CTO and save them from the mind-numbing distractions these tasks tend to be.You may have picked up on this from the notes about recruiting, fundraising, getting press, etc. Sales is the #1 job as the CEO. You’re selling prospectus employees, investors, press, and hopefully your product! Make sure you’re able to close on sales or it’s going to be So you want to be the CEO of a technology company and you don’t know the difference between CSS and C++. I highly recommend getting proficient with the terms, learn enough to understand what’s going on, and ideally start doing some basic programming as well. You’ll gain the respect of your CTO and you’ll communicate way better if you become at least a little bit technical.This is probably the biggest one. A CTO’s job is to focus on the product, and your job among other things is to focus on the company. If the people are happy, if they’re excited to be at work, if they like their co-workers and if they feel inspired to do a great job, you’ll find great CTOs wanting to join you.So that’s about it. If you can do the things a CTO can’t, or would prefer not to, you’re off to a great start. Many of these things need to be proven over time and ultimately you don’t have to do everything yourself. If a CTO believes you’re going to raise capital, get press, hire a great team, build a great product and have tremendous sales, you’re miles ahead of most startup CEOs.This post was written by Alex Capecelatro, CEO of founder/ CEO of Josh.ai

Yesterday the President launched · Increasing access to $100 Million in educational grantsThe average cost to attend a coding bootcamp is almost According to the most recent survey of bootcamps from Course Report, graduating students immediately When people invest three months of time and $10,000, they want to compare their options, apples to apples, to make the right investment. Previously, it was hard to compare the employment and graduation outcomes between coding bootcamps. Yesterday that changed.Ten of the top coding bootcamps in the country formed the Yesterday the President said, “However, Today, With yesterday’s announcement, mayors and governors from 20 communities, including Louisville, St. Louis, and the state of Delaware are bringing together employers and forming local organizations to standardize employer skills requirements, recruit coding bootcamps and proactively recruit more women and underrepresented minorities to training and tech talent pipeline programs. There was a lot excitement In a keynote address at Bryn Mawr, former President of the National Academy of Engineering Bill Wulf once said, “As creative problem-solvers, we’re trying to find the simplest, most elegant solution. When faced with the daunting statistic that Diversity is America’s greatest asset. It’s our strategic advantage to power the most creative and impactful tech companies of the future. Yesterday’s commitments from mayors, coding bootcamps and employers is another step to enable our tech community to tap into a greater pool of talent that better represents the diversity of this country and reach our full potential.If you, your community or organization is interested in joining the TechHire Initiative, Brian Forde is a Returned Peace Corps Volunteer, Nicaraguan phone company founder  served as Senior Advisor for Mobile and Data Innovation at The White House.

By the end of July I had gotten Bar Roulette to a reasonable minimum viable product. I had the app fully functional and a nice landing page for it with some screenshots. There were a number of things I still wanted to improve, but I kept thinking of a quote from Reid Hoffman, Product Hunt and Hacker News were on my list, but A few minutes later I received a notification on Twitter that Ryan had favorited my tweet (nice!). I then refreshed my Product Hunt posting. The first thing I noticed was that the subheadline I had written for the post, “Web app combines Yelp and Uber to take you to a highly rated bar” had been changed to, “Go bar hopping with the help of Uber + Yelp”. Hmmm that’s odd, I thought. Then I saw that Ryan had upvoted Bar Roulette. I tweeted a thank you to Ryan and got confirmation that Bar Roulette would be featured tomorrow. I was ecstatic!The next morning I awoke early and checked Product Hunt and saw Bar Roulette was listed on the day’s featured list. It already had some upvotes and comments. I immediately dived in and began replying to people in the comments. I thanked them for the feedback and answered questions. A key learning for me was that I also began actively engaging with people on Twitter. To do this I searched for “Bar Roulette” and then continually refreshed the search. As people shared Bar Roulette’s post on Product Hunt I favorited and replied to them. Even when someone only shared the link with no additional comments, I would still favorite it and then reply to them with a simple thanks and comment. That ranged from “+1 🍻” to “Thanks, let me know how it goes when you try it!”. A big thanks to my cousin Throughout the day Bar Roulette was continually shared on social media. You could say that it went somewhat viral. This buzz led to One of my favorite exchanges about Bar Roulette on Twitter was between Yelp Columbus and Uber Ohio.By Friday evening I was seeing a large spike in traffic and I was beginning to get a new feeling…helplessness. I had scaled up additional dynos and that helped with the response times. But, as I sat there looking at my Heroku server logs via Papertrail I was seeing them return errors to users. I was doing my best to interpret everything they were saying, but I was having trouble understanding if the errors were minor or serious. Finally, I became concerned that the Uber ride functionality had broken and that it was returning errors midway through the trip.My wife and I decided the best way to alleviate my stress and concern was to simply use Bar Roulette to make sure it was still functioning under the traffic. If it broke when I tested it, then I’d get back home and get to work. My wife used her phone, confirmed our location, the Uber showed up and drove us to Hayes Valley. We got out of the Uber, holding our collective breath. The app refreshed and showed us the final screen with the bar name. We embraced in relief and then went into the bar. Bar Roulette was still up and running under the server strain.I’ve now had some space from the initial success of Bar Roulette to put my thoughts down. Here are the key points I took away from posting on Product Hunt and increasing awareness of my side project.So, what’s next for creator of 

This past weekend at the Berlin Future Forum (BFF), a conference bringing together creative artists and entrepreneurs, technologists and spiritualists, an agenda crystallized for me that has been nagging at me for some time: As some of you know, for the past few years I’ve been wandering around start-up conferences dressed up as “The Amish Futurist” prodding digital technology evangelicals with moral and Luddite instincts around the “why” of innovation. Through gentle, Socratic probing I’ve heard many first hand accounts of the errors of the Silicon Valley elite, confessions of techno-phobia from some of the most advanced start-up founders, and first-hand user accounts of the ills of modern technology on wellbeing.For a summary of some of these explorations, please see inspiration below:Link: Link here: Moreover, within the sharing economy movement, there’s been backlash that’s pointed out the undemocratic and old power principles that companies like Uber, AirBnb and TaskRabbit employ. For a wonderful forthcoming discussion of some of these challenges see an upcoming event on Platform Cooperativism: To this end, I believe a greater community of practice needs to emerge to help bring critical thinking and reflection to the start-up community. While some of this activity is emergent, what I’ve tried to do is sketch out a framework for thinking about what a more intentional technology movement could look like — what are it’s key challenges and interventions. This is an invitation to you to help think through a framework that could provide a meeting point of different actors working on this agenda. I welcome your thoughts.Here’s a mock-up of what I’ve got …THE SCAFFOLDS OF INTENTIONAL TECH — A POTENTIAL FRAMEWORKAs this framework evolves you could see how particular initiatives could map as interventions against a specific barrier and strategy. You then can begin to see where interventions are taking place and where more activity might be necessary. It becomes a heat map of systemic action. That said, these are just some early thinking on what those barriers and strategies would be. I’ve explained them in a bit more detail below, but you might have other ideas.· Success becomes defined by money and “exits” rather than craftsmanship· Promotes copycat start-ups that appeal to investors· Scaling imperative and growth paradigm e.g., capital doesn’t work for the long-term interests of society· Power maximized in the interest of a few· Enterprises and organizations dependent on “visionary” model of leadership· Bro-culture· Less tolerant risk appetite for women and minorities· Beta masculinity  geek patriarchy — what to watch out for· Exclusivity; environments not designed as commons· Tech hubs not open to other types of “entrepreneurs”· Tech communities have no social contract for general welfare or for maximizing benefit to local communities· Proprietary nature of information reduces pace of innovation· Boot-camp approaches e.g., Y-combinator for how not to be an a**-hole start-up founder, diversity training for start-up founders, cultural and political theory for start-up founders· Self-knowledge and awareness of privilege; wisdom training e.g, lose your ego.· Existential reflection — connected to a bigger “why?” — making sure your start-up has a higher purpose· Decentralized model of leadership  participatory ownership· Bringing democratic principles into entrepreneurship· Shared profit structures; not extracting values from users, not centralizing power from workers· Tech that amplifies the best of what it means to be human· Targets · Non-addictive technologies· Building end-users and marginalized communities into design· Long-term financing· Investment that preserves ownership· Hybrid financing techniques; built it fiduciary responsibilities to local communities· Abandon “lone ranger” cowboy script of entrepreneurship· Shared RD and design for acceleration of innovation· Decouple innovation and proprietary ownership· Community and collective models of enterprise development· Start-ups ecosystem become IP free zones and nurture relationships with local communities· Constitutions and democratic principles to govern collaborative venturingUltimately, an intentional technology movement would depend on choreography between these different strategies. Change won’t come from any one point of leverage. It won’t be born through consciousness alone (the Enlightened start-up founder) or through correcting perverse investor incentives. As a result, it requires a greater · Does the “intentional tech” framing work for you? Is this a movement you would support — why or why not?· Who is practicing “intentional tech” at the moment? Where do you see traces of this emergent philosophy?· Is “· Would you be interested in starting up an “intentional technology” boot-camp for start-up founders and investors?· If we were to start an intentional technology reading list — what articles or book or general literature would you recommend?· What else? Interested in ideas folks have …writer, provocateur, economic historian, author 

The So is the drug good or bad? As an investor in science and technology, this is a non-trivial question for me. With the accelerating pace of technological progress and our incredibly powerful tools of creation, this question has never been more relevant for everyone on planet Earth.Personally, I have always thought that anything that would help us all live longer, healthier lives is a good technology. But what I consider to be “good” differs from what others do — sometimes significantly. My opinions, like all of us, are informed by my values, beliefs, circumstances, life experiences and myriad other variables.To use a computer metaphor, my ideological operating system — the code base that I use to process and make sense of the world — isn’t the same as yours. It’s neither better nor worse, it’s just different.So if everyone’s ideas of good and bad are different, how can we decide how to do good with technology? In exploring this, I realized this may be the wrong starting point. Instead, the following may be a better guide: The best way to do good with technology is to build good technology.Most of us aspire to do “good” in the world. Acting on our good intentions, what we decide to do is driven by our personal values. But, failures happen when our values don’t match those of the groups we’re trying to influence, or the approach is suboptimal in producing the best possible technology.Take the 1960–70s model of big aid programs operating in large parts of Africa, for example. Many such programs have largely failed in their objectives, One illustrative example, Even though this example is a cliché in the nonprofit world, the lesson it represents is still relevant. How do we avoid such failures? My proposition is that as entrepreneurs and investors, rather than focusing on doing good with technology, let’s instead focus on building good technology. The difference is much more than semantics.Building good technology starts with strong curiosity, pursuit of hard problems and exploration, wherever it leads. It isn’t necessarily high-minded. Rather, on an important level, it’s the age-old quest to build a better mousetrap — or maybe even to reimagine the problem in a way that eliminates a need for a mousetrap in the first place.Good technology isn’t just a matter of mission statements; it can also come from a tinkerer with no specific overriding purpose other than the pursuit of knowledge. In either case, building good technology is an act of exploration, relentlessly pushing beyond current understanding and capabilities. These are behaviors and preferences commonly shared among scientists, inventors and technologists.In my current venture, we are investing in companies using science to build good technology. In many cases, the technology is already advanced enough to identify tangible applications, like ameliorating sickness.But many of the emerging science and technology efforts we are funding, such as exploring the microbiome or artificial intelligence, are simply about exploring hard questions without pre-defined motives around their potential usage. In other words, we are pursuing good technology because we believe that’s ultimately how we’ll do the most good in the world.So I have asked myself: Is there a place for explicit values in technology at all? Yes, I think there is, but it is not at the lofty level of grand intentions; it is in the trenches of product design.Here is a model to contemplate as we all work on merging our natural desires to do good in the world with what we build: Design your values into the technology where it helps the technology itself become better. For example, when I was building my payments company Braintree, a central design focus for our product and company culture was By contrast, going back to the PlayPump example: Children’s play is not in any obvious way connected to the problem of delivering water to places in need, and does not provide any exceptional leverage based on a scientific or technological principle. Water pumped by playing children is not better or radically less energy-intensive than water pumped by adults, oxen or electric pumps. The PlayPump grafted the value of “promoting play” onto a product to further a top-down agenda.A new generation of entrepreneurs is now turning its attention from solving discrete business problems to solving the world’s problems, with a variety of funds, initiatives and foundations (and many with a Organizations of all types — from government and academia to foundations and corporations — can (and do) create good technology. While each has its own track record of successes and failures, pros and cons, I believe good technology often results from the intense pressures a capitalist market creates to sustainably maximize value creation for the largest number of people. In this system, inferior or incomplete solutions are left by the wayside; promising ideas are made better by market forces and competition.That is, in part, why I decided to start an investment fund with my own capital rather than create a foundation or traditional charity. As I discussed at a panel at the Googleplex for By their very nature, capitalists don’t want to be in the business of defining what good is. They want to create large, profitable markets. So they’re not concerned whether you use their technology to do banking, play games, watch Khan Academy videos, or even for illicit purposes. But just because business people are often pluralist and laissez-faire does not mean that the outcome is any different than if moral philosophers had recommended the actions they take anyway.A powerful example of these principles in action is in the education sector. One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) started in 2005 with the intention of getting a low-cost computer to children in developing nations. The project, while an ambitious and noble idea, ran into all sorts of problems and It doesn’t always work out this way, of course. Philanthropy, academia and government funding play a critical role in subsidizing innovation. For many problems, market-based solutions may simply fall short. But technology that really changes the world has an uncanny habit of standing on its own legs.So what about that anti-aging pill? This is something I’d invest in because it promises to add to the library of human knowledge while filling an important market need. It is good technology at its best, pushing the envelope of what humanity is capable of.I’m encouraged to see so many different models working toward bringing about positive outcomes with technology. To have a shot at solving some of our most vexing challenges, we need a diverse ecosystem of approaches. As for me, I’m betting that the pursuit of good technology will create the most favorable conditions for humanity to flourish.Entrepreneur and investor. Founder of OS Fund and Braintree (PayPal/eBay). In search of quantum leaps and high peaks.Accelerated Learning, Tech, Antifragility, and Definite Optimism

A few weeks ago, From what I learned at this workshop and what I’ve read of Freada’s research previously, we have to fight our brains A LOT to go against our hardwired nature to associate two things at once [ex. As foragers we learned “these mushrooms: delicious. These mushrooms: poisonous.” Throughout evolution, this bias has been extremely helpful and lifesaving] However, this hardwired nature becomes more problematic when interacting with people and hiring for companies. Most of these associations (race, sexuality, gender, and religion to start) are formed from media and the experiences we have while growing up; unfortunately, they tend to promote a limited view of the world. When it comes to people, this subconcious association is referred to as That’s bananas! You probably know why it’s bananas, but if you don’t please look around at who gets the most funding: When someone looks at a resume or interviews a candidate, it takes less than 2 minutes to assess whether that candidate will be hired. The uphill battle some people are up against: In studies, non-white sounding names recieved 50% less responses to job applications, religious affilations on a resume recieved 29% less, and us LGBTQ* folk (and allies) 23% less. Based on life experience and what we’ve been exposed to, we’re all going to have some type of bias informing our decisions. As was emphasized in this workshop though, neither religious affliation Because culture fit. It really is a myth. Bologna. Bollocks. The real question(s) should be: Are you interested in the problems we are solving here and do you have the skills to solve them with us? Culture fit is too often used as a barrier of entry for many startups when really so much of a company is learned as you go: this person was too corporate. not outgoing enough. too focused on team structure. didn’t seem like she could work our hours. has never owned a dog. As a historical reference, the same excuses were used for years about hiring women for many jobs (they just can’t handle the stress of real business!) There are too many reasons why I’ve seen people nixed from a candidate pool in my 6 years in startups that can mostly be boiled down to people putting partial facts together and making a judgement based on it, another idea Freada explained to us. These judgements are used to keep startups and other industries exclusive communities instead of truly opening them up to innovation and real problem solving. Even places like Google are willing to admit that their brainteaster questions, designed to reveal thinking strategies and apparently filter out non-exemplary candidates, were One thing that we didn’t get to discuss with Freada is practicing mindfulness when encountering these biases. What could mindfulness in hiring look like? Perhaps taking that split second judgement you make when someone walks in the door, identifying it, and really understanding where it comes from. I think that this is the personal growth stage of mitigating bias to really change our perception of the world and the people we interact with. I try to practice mindfulness throughout much of my day (Why do I feel upset? Am I stressed? Is something really bad going to happen? No! You just feel like that meeting wasn’t as productive as you hoped but you can fix that with a follow up action plan. But really more likely, No! You’re hungry!) and I’d personally like to challenge myself to understand where my bias comes from when interviewing candidates and then change that perception.So, remembering that diverse teams are better at problem solving and innovation, what are the ways startups can be increasing diversity from the get go? Freada shared several solid steps to do this, listed below. I’ve taken out discussion of the pipeline and interviewing tactics because I think those both deserve a whole separate conversation.I’m lucky to be working at Tinybop, which is as far from a typical startup as hopefully one can get. We’re 70% women, several of us grew up outside of the US, we speak many languages, some are first generation college grads, and when we add up how far we’ve come in our lives to get to Tinybop, I’m pretty proud we’ve all blown past some hefty hurdles. We’re a company that constantly thinks about diversity as a huge asset to our team and I know we’ll continue to add new voices to strengthen our community. I hope everyone is open to doing the same or at the very least, open to a dialogue about it.Further reading on Freada and Mitch’s work. Also be sure to check out Head of Community 

I am sure the month of September has the maximum number of dots or crosses on your calendar app if you are a techie, love new gadgets or have the ‘shut up — and — take my money’ attitude. It also is a great month for designs and I bring to you 8 UI design trends or ideas that I found very interesting from the month of September until now!It is only fair that I start this article with the most popular design trend of the year! 3D touch in the new iPhone. Usually, Apple releases a new iPhone with a change in the phone specs, or with an upgrade of the camera or with some new considerably effective UI features. This time, Apple came up with an incredible piece of UI design which arises little to no qualms. It minimizes the user’s clicks and allows you to quickly access the common features of an app. You simply have to press harder on any app, image, one of the emails from your inbox and then something amazing happens — you feel a small pressure like you strung a guitar. And a modal window pops up allowing you to choose from few options. Instagram, Pinterest, dropbox and some of the apple apps allow you to make use of this feature.You know how you can rate restaurants on Yelp and movies on imdb. Well, now you can rate people on peeple app or website. The Founder, Julia Cordray after receiving undesirable feedback from users decided to take it down. Although, the interface of peeple is something worth mentioning. It has a sleek and modern appeal with smooth transitions between the different elements. The white space is cleverly used too. Yelp could definitely adopt some of the design guidelines from peeple.I am a designer who had to try really hard to minimize the use of colors on my designs. So, when I saw the ‘Google keep’ app for the first time, I was exhilarated. Unfortunately, it was available only in Android phones and web but now, you can download it on your iPhone! I have been using this app extensively since then. It is pretty much like any other note taking app where you can add checklists, share the lists or notes with others, add pictures, record memos but the best part is the burst of colors and the haphazard arrangement. Psychologically, I feel less burdened than usual when I see my to-do list.Facebook now allows users to upload a 7-second looping video as their profile picture. A little queasy considering you need to be at least an amateur video editor to make your face look as good as it does in your static display picture. It is also a fun way to bring out the creativity in you. Users can also upload an image to suit the occasion or situation by setting a time limit on the picture. This way, the picture reverts back to the original one. An extension to “what’s on your mind?”. Similar to the LGBT or support digital India display pictures. Facebook is coming up with really innovative features in the video genre considering it also launched the 360-degree videos and mentions app where you can see live videos of celebrities.Product designers are always trying to make interfaces more intuitive for people. The phones are getting bigger — but our thumb, unfortunately remains the same size. So, this particular feature helps a lot if you are too lazy to slide your thumb upwards. The above design not just depicts the change in the orientation of the arrow, but now the arrow depicts that you can slide down from anywhere on your screen to go back. Very cool! Happy thumb!Yay! See that flying blue star — Now go check if you can find that on your tinder app and if you can, then swipe up if you really really really like that person and would love to talk to them. If you can’t find it, update your app and if you want to ‘super like’ up to five times a day, upgrade to Tinder plus. This small piece of design will definitely go a long way in helping to differentiate but could get killed if overused.No seriously! Spotify is rolling out a feature where you can control your playlists using your car’s dashboard controls such as the rotatory knobs and touch interfaces. It is compatible with MirrorLink in-car systems. Users need to download the Rockscout android app to use this feature. I know you are probably thinking about the harm an additional app could cause to your phone but it is better that you stay unharmed. And it is going to get cooler with the plethora of in-car touchscreen user interactions that will generate from this idea.You remember the moving fish screensaver or wallpaper on your android phone? This is nothing like that. Google Creative labs team have come up with a new app called ‘Meter’ and it displays widgets instead of your wallpaper. These widgets notify you of your battery life, WiFi strength or number of pending notifications. They adopt the Google’s Material design guidelines. If you are confused about how the battery widget works, the size of the enclosed ball is directly proportional to the percentage of the battery life. This also takes away all those teeny tiny icons on top.Recommend this post if you enjoyed it. Thank you!UI/UX Designer — Creating better experiences for people.No IT Dept: You’re On Your Own

There are countless blog posts by recruiters who give advice to startups on how to recruit the best developers. But if we want an actual match, developers also need advice on how to find their dream job (and stay there)!The good thing about the current state of tech recruitment (which is very shitty), is that there are always people not accepting the Some learn to code in order to understand the developers they recruit, the others sit on every scrum meeting there is to fully grasp what the team he/she is helping is looking for, and some others perfect their reach-out to an extent that you just can’t go around, as a top developer.This is happening, but this is just a drop in the ocean. The majority of the tech recruitment vertical is full with spam, ignorance, and filth. But rest assured, the ones working and hiring for the hottest startups search for you; so, as a young dude/dudette studying CS, you can up your chances significantly landing a job at a dream startup:Without one of the abovementioned variables missing from your profile, I, as a recruiter, am not even going to reach out. Start with these as early as possible and you’ll land your startup dream job in no time.Last advice: avoid recruiters. If I were to be a developer and wanted to work at my dream company: I would find a repository, start pulling and joining a repo-chat on for instance My first and by far the best advice I can give you is: When I joined my first startup (a small independent video game company) in 1999 — yes, last millennium — it just took one interview.I didn’t expect my school to teach me how to program and I spend tons of evenings and weekends coding all sort of things — just because I loved it. During high school and university, I wrote some For the game company, my profile was a perfect fit, I knew about real time and 3d engine thanks to my side-projects and knew about networking thanks to my studies. For an online video game company, it’s hard to ask for more. So when we discussed, it was more about what to do and how much I’ll be paid than selling me on why I should be hired by the company.If you are not inspired, here are some example:For me, being a good fit for an early stage startup means that you are able to get things done. Excelling in writing code is for sure important, but you also need to keep in mind what the startup is actually trying to achieve.There is a common pitfall to over-engineer things instead of just make something happen. This doesn’t mean that you should do dirty hacks all the way, but it is important to know the priorities.A startup is meant to move fast in the beginning and things will change often. Sometimes it is just impossible to predict where things are going. This means that you will probably be wrong about lots of things regarding the architecture and the functionality of your code.The more knowledge you have about your project, the further you go, the more likely you are to make the right decisions. Trying to make everything perfect from day one might just not be possible and most likely a waste of time.A good startup developer understands that and can adapt his way of working towards it. It’s more important to have something which you can iterate on instead of a perfect solution which might not be used at all.Working in a startup can be amazing. It gives you loads of freedom and responsibilities. As a “manager of one”, you’ll have more than enough opportunities to code your way through a complex problem, alone in your corner. But, first and foremost, you’ll be part of a team. And, let’s face it: you probably didn’t pick up coding because you love spending time chatting with other people and need to meet new people every day. You may even well be at the other end of that spectrum.Not only other fellow developers, meet the guy in charge of the customer relations, meet the gal in charge of the marketing. Do not let the C(T|E)O be the only one assessing that you are a good fit for the team. Check that the team is a good fit for you.Then discuss the project. After all, would you rather be spending the next X years of your life doing something boring with people you love or doing something exciting with people you despise? (luckily, the world is not that binary.)Programming has changed a lot since its glorious beginnings. There are still passionate hackers who fell in love with programming when they were 12, but it has also become a reasonable career path chosen later on by many others. It’s ok, the world needs both, but startups need the former most.So, there is a large developer market, but few startups and hackers that are struggling to find each other. When I first looked for a serious job, I didn’t know where to meet cool startups, and now that I have founded one, I do not know where to find good hackers.Fortunately, there is now an infinite amount of informal meetups around most technologies. Go there, talk to people, make friends and find where you want to spend most of your waking hours.We hope you found these advice useful. Here’s a final advice: check out our And don’t forget to follow our collection Together with entrepreneurs, we turn unique ideas into successful companies. We act as the perfect co-founder to build strong and independent startups.Bi-monthly stories about code, tech and shared experiences. For developers. UT is brought to your by eFounders.co — startup studio building great SaaS startups.

We do know there’s a leaky pipeline of women in engineering (well documented in the book This is the data collection follow-up to “Where are the numbers?”This data collection spreadsheet shows over 150 companies and their ratio of Women developers within the organisation’s programming teams. The easiest way to view the collected data is this Google spreadsheet:Computing is our future. A future where every product we own is connected, smart, and responsive. A future where we are able to delegate more and more of our mundane work to algorithms and machines. There should be more women in technology because they must have a voice in what that future looks like. As long as men continue to dominate the field of computer science we are perpetuating the oppression of women by either actively or tacitly accepting their silence in the design of our common future.Without getting into a conversation about nature vs. nurture, it is safe to say that over centuries women have been socialized differently than men. This socialisation leads to a different vocabulary of metaphors and experiences. In the book “Metaphors We Live By”, George Lakoff argues that “the human conceptual system is metaphorically structured and defined” and that “human thought processes are largely metaphorical.” If this is true, the fundamentally different experience of being a woman brings with it a fundamentally different way of thinking.One axiom that comes to mind is “there are only two hard things in Computer Science: cache invalidation and naming things.” Just as the original designers of graphical user interfaces chose files, folders, and a desktop to be the defining metaphors for that revolution in computing we are constantly “naming things” and choosing the metaphors which will define the systems we design. I suspect that a person with sufficiently different experiences (and metaphors) would add a great deal of value when solving these sorts of problems. Solving problems is the primary activity of most technologists (computer scientists, developers, designers). There is a great body of research showing that a diversity of perspectives aids in problem-solving.Girls Who Code Founder Reshma Saujani talked about why she started her company, and the impact she hopes to have on the technology industry. As she noted, despite strong performance by girls in math and science at a young age, there’s a dramatic drop-off when it comes to their entering the tech industry, and the problem is actually getting worse. As she put it, “In the 1980s, 37 percent of all computer science grads were women. Today that number is 12 percent. Steve Jobs and his original Apple team probably had more women than Mark Zuckerberg has today.” In this clip, she talks about the immediate impact her program is having, both in terms of the number of girls she’s educating, and what at least one graduate, among others, has already accomplished.“The world is faced with a dispiriting number of wicked problems, and computing promises continued breakthroughs for some time to come. If we’re going to solve some of our largest problems we don’t just need more people in computer-related disciplines, we need more great people. According to the theory of constraints if we try to solve other issues before we’ve dealt with this clear constraint we are wasting our effort.” — (original author, Samuel Bowles).“It’s important for more women to start considering careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), as these are seen as prestigious jobs, with high levels of compensation and the possibility of speedy advancement. An engineer with three or more years of experience is often considered a senior engineer. There are also multiple paths to success possible as a director, CTO, vice president of engineering, architect, entrepreneur or investor, depending on one’s particular personality. But most importantly, technology is the future and eventually every company will be a tech company, making it vital for women to start developing the skills needed for these positions.” — Alaina Percival, Women who Code.In a recent article in the Wall Street Journal, interviewing the CEO of Women Who Code, Alaina Percival, states the 10 reasons why their needs to be more women in software engineering and why a career in tech for women is highly valuable and fulfilling.Here are 1. Employers want to hire you.2. Job security.3. The potential for flexible schedules, working from home or anywhere in the world.4. IT jobs constantly claim the top spots on “Top Job Lists”.5. Tech can require a lot of collaboration — a skill often valued in women.6. The career can be fulfilling for those who like to constantly learn new things.7. You often need to think creatively and solve problems.8. It is considered prestigious and this will likely increase over time.9. There are many different career paths as you move up in your career.10. In the future, all companies will be involved in technology, so no matter what sector you are interested in you could find an engineering role.The best thing yet, knowing code is one of the most powerful assets you have in entering the tech industry. Being a software engineer opens up the path to many different avenues and roles down the future for your success including, becoming the CTO, VP/President of Engineering, Director, Architect, become an entrepreneur or even an VC.The most important mark to this article — technology is the future and eventually every company will be a tech company, making it vital for women to start developing skills needed for these positions. The future is in your hands and software is eating the world.Entrepreneur. Director of Growth  Product Strategy at Titan Vine. Founder at dansiepen.com — Coffee addict :) 

Of course tech companies should strive for age diversity, and for the same reasons they should strive for racial, ethnic and gender diversity. First of all, it’s the right thing to do. But like other forms of diversity, it’s also just smart business.People’s lived experience can be the key to a company’s competitive edge, particularly in the innovation economy. That’s why at Kapor Capital, our best entrepreneurs draw from their own backgrounds to identify the problems that tech can solve. They are creating new markets as they develop solutions. There is a reason that the app store on your phone is overloaded with services that cater to youngish, upper-middle class folks with the money to spend on things like concierge food services and sock delivery: app designers are themselves largely youngish, single, upper-middle class techies. They are creating tech solutions for the problems they’ve identified in life, but if their lived experience is one of privilege, those problems can be relatively trivial.Just think about all the issues associated with aging: everything from health care, retirement planning, financial planning, dealing with the loss of a spouse — there is a huge market there. Older people are steeped in these realities, and their experiences will be invaluable to shaping solutions. In fact, direct experiences with parents and grandparents have been the founding inspiration for at least three of our Kapor Capital portfolio companies: Of course, age bias differs in many ways from other biases. For one thing, everybody ages. Getting older isn’t restricted to any particular population. And since most of us have an older person who we care about, empathy isn’t an obstacle here the way it can be with race, ethnicity, and religion, biases which remain incredibly persistent in the workplace.In the recent discussions of “Similarly, age bias may be more relatable once we bring up the conversation. One study conducted across Europe, for example,The good news is that tech may already have some solutions to mitigate age bias. Companies likeThe best bias mitigation techniques, though, are based on research. Given that aging is an experience most of us will face, there has been surprisingly little research. We don’t yet have all the tools to mitigate the problem, but perhaps that’s another tech opportunity.Maybe if we had a few more old folks in Silicon Valley we could come up with a solution faster.Founder of Level Playing Field Institute, investor in social impact startups, dog devotee

I worked in tech til I was 45. Once fired for going home at 2 a.m. when a company was “on a crunch”. At a certain point you don’t want to put up with the ridiculousness of bad process being an excuse for working people to death. Companies who value diversity have enough older people around to know that nobody does their best work at 2 am.The constant crisis, the endless hours, the rush to get something out the door — these are the death of the tech industry. Once you reach an age to know this nonsense is not what makes a great product, a great team, or a great company, you get out, and suddenly have a great life, a great family, and a great perspective that perhaps work and money are not the most important things in life. And then you can focus on creating better, greater things.It wasn’t like that when I started, and I just saw more and more decline in the treatment of people in the tech industry. I think those who put up with its abuses should realize there is more to life than working yourself to death.Software, quality and business process geek. Lover of craft beer. Political and economics junkie who blocks sock puppets and eggs. Girl genius wannabee.

I find there are fundamental problems with this article- it focuses solely on how technology can enhance or be a part of social connections and communication, and in that respect it has been a huge influence. But it is easy to miss how it interferes with social interaction, especially if your point of view has no context outside of a technologically connected society. The biggest issue with social isolation as a result of technology comes from the availability of highly stimulating entertainment sources- games, news feeds, other non-social media outlets. These cause a number of problems. One, they are highly stimulating, highly convenient, and encourage passive interaction with them, versus something requiring more effort like actually engaging with people. In this respect, these influences can become crippling, luring people towards easier interactions than seeking social interaction. A more insidious and destructive effect can be understood through recognizing that human cognitive and social skills are highly dependent on the normal development of mirror neurons, which are inextricably tied to the observation of and interaction withother people. Postponing, delaying or deferring the typical opportunities to interact with other people can result in permanently impaired social interaction skills.As in any other realm, it’s easy to bitch and justify stuff in your own sphere of understanding. It doesn’t mean you have a good take on reality.If you studied math and understand induction, then be very careful about thinking your opinions are right until youre about 45 years old.

Google’s philosophy on pricing for business technology is simple: It should be easy to understand — not so complex that it requires an What’s more, you shouldn’t be held hostage for an extended period of time by your enterprise agreement, or be forced into predatory software audits. You should have the freedom to add or subtract functionality and users as you need, and pay only for what you use. Many CIO’s I know want this simplicity so they can focus on their user experience. Unfortunately, the traditional world of enterprise pricing is fraught with complexity: lock-ins, audits, hidden costs, paying for the same software again and again, even paying more for the same stuff. It makes no sense!At first glance, a long-term enterprise agreement may seem like a good way for IT decision makers to find value in this world of pricing complexity, but in reality it can be more damaging than you think. Most businesses don’t upgrade that often, so getting upgrade rights for programs that help you unlock the full potential of your investment are irrelevant — it’s usually cheaper to just buy the next version. And more importantly, you’re locked into these agreements for at least three years — a lifetime in today’s world of tech disruption.As your vendor holds you hostage, the technology landscape moves forward through three new generations of smartphones, countless software improvements and whole new categories of technology products. Your business is left struggling to catch up. There’s greater competition in the market than ever before, and many vendors are ready to play ball and provide a la carte services, so this is particularly hard to swallow.So repeat after me: “No more EA’s!” Let’s break the cycle once and for all and restore some sanity to business technology pricing.The best of Google, now for work

The Bay Area is known for two things: tech and high housing prices. Many of us are here because of the former and in spite of the latter. Housing costs prevent new talent from coming to the region and are a drain on resources that could otherwise go to building new companies. Tech, as an industry, has to help reform regional housing policy. And we have to do it fast.Bay Area tech is a textbook example of an Prices in the housing market are born of supply and demand. And a lot of demand does come from tech. But while demand has increased, supply has not kept pace. This is clearly reflected in rising rents and skyrocketing home values. I don’t know much about ferret regulations, but this clip from Silicon Valley is spot on when it comes to housing:Tech in a difficult position. The Bay is still the industry’s center of the universe. But it’s becoming ridiculously expensive to retain top talent and secure commercial space. It’s as if tech — along with everyone else — has to pay an extra tax to landholders just for the privilege of being here. And the more successful the industry becomes, the more the industry will have to pay.The immediate problem is a housing shortage. And the immediate solution is to From San Francisco to Cupertino, residents resist urbanization. Many times this involves homeowners blocking anything beyond the This Google running We’re accruing the institutional equivalent of I like tech because we build alternatives. At out highest-minded, we’re all about criticism through creation. But taking that approach to regional governance means giving up and moving to Austin. Or maybe that The Bay Area is like its own startup. And anyone who has been at a great company during rough times knows you don’t walk away at the first sign of trouble. If the product is good and the team is willing, you work at it until you get it right. For tech to get it right in the Bay, we have to participate. That means voting.For the record, I have Sold on voting? Live in San Francisco? Great. Election day is on November 3rd and this one is gonna be a doozy:Four clicks and a short Lyft ride is as frictionless as I can make American Democracy. But if there are any “Growth Hackers” out there that want to create a better new user funnel, by all means, show me up.Interested in doing more than voting? Want to speak at a city council meeting or help out with a marketing campaign? There are organizations that would love to have your help.The If civic engagement sounds like a lot of work, it’s because it is. The process is an uphill battle by design. Short term, there are benefits to brute forcing our way through a broken process. Long term, however, we need to change the process itself. That means investing our time, skills, and money into political advocacy, either through an existing group or one that the industry creates on its own.Next to Loma Prieta II, high housing costs are the single biggest threat Bay Area tech faces today. If we do nothing, we die a slow collective death. I live in the Bay Area and write about all things political, technological, and economic. Risk Ops by day, Policy Analysis by night. All opinions are my own.

FThe private car is nowhere near dead — for many people, it’s still a vitally important part of their daily lives, and a place where they can enjoy music as they sit on the freeway or at a traffic light. But trends are starting to shift, albeit slowly — more and more millennials are starting to reject car ownership, and some teens are even avoiding getting a license. Things might shift as this generation ages — hopping in and out of Ubers is fine for a night on the town, while it’s not so easy with kids or pets — but even if some do eventually settle down and buy a minivan, plenty of others will continue to use ridesharing services and public transit as primary means of transportation.Self-driving cars, if and when they are introduced to the mass market (and at this point, it’s more of a when than an if) have the potential to change the game as well. Why would anyone listen to commercial radio, with long ad breaks and a schedule that the user doesn’t control, when they could just sit in the car with a phone and flip through different apps to get information on demand. While people won’t stop listening to music when they commute, be it by train, Uber, or self-driving car, the way the consume music while doing those things certainly will.Let’s start with terrestrial radio, which has the most to lose from all of this. For a long time, people listened to the radio in the car because it was simply the easiest option, and if they wanted to hear sports scores, traffic, and weather in real time, they had no other way to do it. You had to take action when you wanted to change your soundtrack, and even if popping in a disc or a cassette wasn’t all that hard, it was still something you had to do — and besides, if you were listening to your own music, you might miss a report of a ten-car pile-up a few miles ahead.Now, people can just plug their directions in a GPS and get live updates on their phone — so there’s no need to sit through long blocks of ads to get to the info you need. And if you’re in the back of an Uber, or on a train, you can just look at your phone. If you really just want music picked by someone else to listen to, you have plenty of options, from Pandora to Spotify to SiriusXM, all with limited to no commercial interruption. And if you’re on the train, you can still get all the music you want — just plug in earbuds and you’re good to go.This is all well and good, but listening through headphones does leave a certain something to be desired. There’s a reason Wayne and Garth’s “Bohemian Rhapsody” sing-a-long in the car is one the most iconic movies scenes of the nineties, if not of all time. We measure the song of the summer partly by how many times we hear it blasting out of a car window, and we know a song has gotten ubiquitous when we hear it in a taxi.Creating social music experiences in a public places is tricky and can be annoying, as anyone whose commute has been interrupted by “it’s showtime!” dancers can attest. But there are ways to split the difference. Spotify allows subscribers to play music in Uber cars, but it could work the other way — many people are happy to let drivers choose the music, and based on passenger data and demographics, Uber could partner with labels or artists to create custom playlists that automatically start when a user enters the car. If Uber knows I’m a thirty-something woman in Williamsburg who often takes cars to the Lower East Side and other indie venues, it can probably guess I like indie rock and partner with Spotify to make sure stuff I like will be playing when my ride pulls in.And when Uber finally gets its self-driving dreamworld, the cars can serve you a perfect playlist on demand — as well automatically routing the car around traffic and giving you weather and news updates upon request. The costs of this could be baked into the car, so we could finally live in a world where we don’t have to hear the same jewelry store ad five times an hour.As private and charter buses also rise in popularity, we’ll see some cool music experiences being baked in those. The days are driving off into the sunset in a convertible with a great track aren’t quite done, but they are numbered. If artists and labels can figure out ways to be creative and integrate as transport norms shift, we might still see Wayne’s World type sing-a-longs, only on a bus speeding towards a festival, or a self-driving car taking its occupant someplace great.Startup consultant and writer. Cohost of An ear for the new, a heart for the classics.

You could define Techstars runs 18 programs world wide, 8 of which are city programs and not focused on a specific vertical. The remaining 10 are vertical programs and accept companies focusing on cloud, robotics, health, education, wearables and more.Having 10 companies in a common vertical is great from an investor’s point of view. If you’re managing a fund and thinking about attending a demo day then it makes more sense to go somewhere and see 10 companies in your space than a generic program that might have 1–2 companies you care about.The investor thing is nice but the real draw for me is the value you give and get from your peers during the program. I loved interacting with all of the companies in the Cloud program. They certainly helped team Knowtify along the way and we’re very grateful for that.Going into the application process, Techstars was far and away a better experience. I’m obviously biased in my assessment but the biggest difference for me was transparency. To kick things off, I had a face to face meeting with Waiting for a decision was far more tolerable when we didn’t feel left in the dark. The process took about 3–4 weeks. We got a thumbs up from Blake over Google Hangout. It was fitting and just felt great getting accepted into the Techstars family.In early January we packed our bags and moved from San Francisco to San Antonio. It’s actually a pretty nice city with a growing tech community thanks to Showing up in San Antonio on day 1 and meeting the teams was very exciting.Techstars had 6 inspired people working 24/7 to help us build our companies.As token of our thanks, we gave the Hackstars  Associates a pinata at the end of the program. I know that is some insanely skewed compensation for anyone out there counting beans. But at Techstars, we It’s really the basis for everything you do as an early stage company. A story helps the team develop a clear vision that can be articulated to investors, new employees, customers and the press.It’s really the basis for everything you do as an early stage company. A story helps the team develop a clear vision that can be articulated to investors, new employees, customers and the press.We’re building an engagement marketing platform to help software companies market to their The first month of Techstars is like speed dating for companies and mentors. You talk to as many entrepreneurs as possible from the Techstars network. The goal is to find 3–5 people you like working with to help grow the company over the next 2 months leading up to demo day.I’m sure we easily talked to more than 50 people. Some days we’d talk to 5–7 mentors. Other days we’d only talk to 1–2. In the end we paired up with 4 pretty amazing mentors. The second month of the program was about spending a few hours per week with each mentor and really cranking away on messaging and the product. This is where our vision really started to come together.Over the first month, it probably took 15–20 minutes to explain what we do. After the 2nd month, we were able to get there in under 1–2 minutes. Being able to explain what you do fast just makes the discussion so much more productive.In the 3rd month, the focus is purely on getting ready for demo day. We spent part of the month getting documents ready to share with investors but I’d say most of it was in preparing our demo day pitch. Overall I’d say demo day went well for all of the companies in our batch. Everyone delivered a presentable pitch. A few presenters forgot a minor line or 2 but nothing close to catastrophic.I’m probably biased but The investor turnout was good. I’d guess around 100 investors attended the event and who knows how many were watching from the sideline. We had some good discussions during the after party. Definitely looking forward to some of the follow up conversations.Every week either the CEOs or the CTOs got together for dinner. This is a great concept but I didn’t personally get as much out of dinners as I could have. Here’s why:Having said that, I would have preferred to do breakfast with CTOs rather than dinners. That way everyone is rested, it’s a more relaxing environment and people aren’t thinking about finishing a project. But I don’t think other people share my opinion here. It all really depends on your work style.It is absolutely a challenge to keep pace with your product while investing a large portion of each day into Techstars. But it is absolutely worth it. What you lose in productivity, you gain in many other areas.We focused on contracting instead of hiring during the program to keep things moving. This worked out well for us because we landed a top notch backend engineer and a super creative content marketer. Thanks This is a great technique we can all use to invest in our business and personal relationships. Not every relationship will pan out. Sometimes you’ll give without getting. That’s ok because the relationships that do work out will be stronger.On average 2–3 times per week Blake would bring in an expert from the Techstars network to give a talk on a wide variety of business topics. Sometimes people would talk about fundraising, design, development, marketing or success/failure stories. Some talks were formal and others were very informal.I was a fan of the talks. The quality was great and they added diversity to the program. Only a few of talks featured subpar content or were too promotional in nature.Every Wednesday night we’d get together and share our company KPIs. Most companies would focus on 2–3 numbers that represent the value customers are getting from their products.This was easily one of my biggest personal take aways from the program. Before, I always thought KPIs were just bullshit vanity metrics companies use to show everyone how great they are. It’s clear that a lot of people use KPIs in this way. But if you focus on the right numbers for the right reasons then KPIs can be a great source of inspiration for the team.Don’t show a number that’s too abstracted away from everyone’s day to day lives. Sure MRR is important but if you’re a developer and you see that number, how does it influence your actions? Instead, focus on a more approachable number you think will impact MRR.Maybe that number is weekly active users. Now it becomes actionable. Team members can take actions with the intention of bringing users back into the app. (email, social…)If you start driving up a KPI but it’s not impacting MRR the way you expect, then you’ve probably made a bad assumption or you’re measuring it wrong. Just reevaluate. KPIs aren’t set in stone.Werewolf is the official game of Techstars companies everywhere. At least once per week we’d all get together to drink beer and play this dramatic game of trust and deceit. Feelings were hurt, chairs thrown, alliances forged and broken…we had some serious fun.Techstars was a wonderful experience for me personally and for our company. It wasn’t all chocolate cake and fairy dust but I’d rate it a solid 9.1 out of 10. That is a very high number for me. Once a holiday was declared because I gave something an 8.4. Not because I’m famous or anything…I’m just usually more critical than this post might imply ;)Interested in learning more about Cofounder/CTO of Knowtify.io and aspiring inventor.

Somewhere during human history magic lost to technology. Technology came to dominate our mindshare while magic was relegated to superstition.I, like many, assumed magic lost because it turned out not to be real. As a young techno-capitalist I was ok with this; I was into computers and the whole world needed an upgrade.But eventually I found challenges that technology wasn’t addressing: broken minds, violence, I went looking for ways to transform myself into a better person. And I found many powerful and wondrous things. I found the keys to self-actualization. I found ways of entering altered states of consciousness that conferred uncommon understanding. I found ways of uncovering painful memories, repressed but not forgotten, and ways of re-experiencing those memories differently, thereby changing the effects of the past on my present. I discovered the meaning of synchronicity and how to use them to navigate my life’s course.Then after years of this it finally hit me… Now, I don’t mean that everything that’s ever been called magic by everyone is real. But are there attitudes, actions, and understandings that can result in intense, unordinary, and significant experiences inside one’s self, between our selves, and around us? Perhaps you, like many moderns, are prejudiced against magic and biased toward technology. Well I have news for you: Not only is magic real, but Like? Subtlety. Rather than electricity or software, magic requires the ability to access and observe the delicate sensations and observations arising within and around one’s self. Over time the Western mind lost it’s acquaintance with the subtle, which is why magic seemed to disappear. We lost it during the rise of organized religions, when navigating subtle experiences and altered states came under the control of sanctioned authorities. We lost it during the Enlightenment and Scientific Revolution when we regained personal authority through rationalism and empiricism but threw the magic out with the religious bathwater. We lost more of it during the industrial revolution, where subtle sensations were only a distraction in the drudgery of the assembly line. And we lost still more during the Information Age, dominated by industrial educations, where the pressure to learn standardized curricula forced us to routinely suppress our intuition.The other thing about magic is that it doesn’t scale as easily as manufactured goods and services. This is because market adoption tends to be inversely proportional to skill. So the products that scale most quickly are those that require the user to know or do as little as possible.Magic doesn’t work that way, at least not in its current stage of development. Magic requires a skillful user to navigate internal experiences that others cannot see and to shift and focus attention onto indescribable objects. The duplicability is poor. The instruction manual difficult to write. The onus on the user, great.Because of all this, the word “technology” now tends to mean just all the the fundable, scaleable, shippable, stuff that anyone can buy and with the push of a button get some effect. Missing are the technologies that require subtle sensations to be masterfully directed, expanded, and amplified.But things are beginning to change. What is the mind? What is the Self? What can we become? What is our greatest destiny? It is just these sort of questions that are coming to matter most to a people who have for decades binged on easy access to every material want. And without skillfully navigating the subtle, these questions are impenetrable.You can see it happening most obviously with the increasing popularity of meditation. Think about it: here we are in this glitzy, gadgety, gluttonous society full of streaming high-def video, all-you-can-eat buffets, and amusement parks. Yet people en-masse are starting to say, “Well, I like those things sometimes but you know what? I think I’m going to just sit here with my eyes closed.” And they’re having a wild time.And what is meditation? I’ll tell you. Meditation is the skillful immersion of the self in the subtle. Which means that We can see the return of subtle technology in many other places too: in the unprecedented popular interest in psychology and yoga, in the revitalized psychedelic movement, in the renewed respect for indigenous medicine and ceremony. We can see it in our language, with the appearance of concepts such as “ego death” in the vernacular. And just about every other person I meet these days, whether engineer or venture capitalist, seems to at some point confide in me that they’ve been getting into “energy work”.We are a people becoming less interested in having things and more interested in having experiences. Less interested in becoming rich and more interested in becoming whole. Less interested in information and more interested in states — states of peak performance and flow, states of seeming union with the infinite, states of elevated perspective that disillusion us of our fears and anxieties and reveal them as baseless in the face of our true nature.Magic will return, understood this time as subtle technology. It will be integrated with the obvious technology of today. Together they will give rise to the next great industries, and to new jobs and livelihoods that we can once again believe in, which will not enslave or ensnare us but rather heal us and make us whole.We will leave the age of excessive information, the age of mental illness, the age of material glut, for the age of consciousness. And we will know it by the felt sense of aliveness, connection, purpose, and love that it confers upon us. Which, more than information and possessions, is all that we humans have ever really wanted anyway.More at Founder 

Regardless of where you’re from or where you work, if you live in San Francisco, you have a housing story. You’ve experienced the obstacle course of finding a room to rent, you’ve made a sacrifice, or a few, to stay, or maybe you’ve been forced out by an eviction, a break-up, a fire, or just plain financial pragmatism.I’ve been trying to make sense of this mess since I moved here four years ago and nothing has brought it all together better than Kim-Mai Cutler’sSo last week, Andrea and I invited Kim-Mai to share her presentation with a mostly tech audience. Both Andrea and I work at organizations — While we know this wider tech community has had some effect on the housing stock and prices from San Jose to San Francisco, knowing how to more deeply understand our role and as newcomers to this city, how to respectfully contribute to a conversation about solutions, is a challenge.But as Kim-Mai explains, it’s not an insurmountable one.(For a more comprehensive overview, read the A combination of political and economic decisions made over the course of decades have together contributed to the mess we’re in now. From the massive change to California’s property tax laws in 1978 (The influx of new workers in San Francisco working in the technology industry is very real. By some estimates, the From here in San Francisco, it can seem like we’re at the center of this convoluted, expensive universe. But overtime, the growth, development, and changes in housing patterns and city planning in Los Altos, This was a major point Kim-Mai emphasized. The debate isn’t about building more housing or not. We simply At least FOUR propositions on Andrea and I also asked representatives from various city organizations tackling different aspects of the housing challenge to explain how people can get involved in their work.Here’s a preview of what a handful of these organizations are doing and how you can get involved:Elections in San Francisco I originally moved to San Francisco to work at a tech company, but I hope to stay in San Francisco, because I’ve grown to love this beautiful, sometimes strange, and always surprising city. If you have other ideas for how to continue this conversation, engage the tech community, and help ensure a creative, diverse population can share in San Francisco’s prosperity for years to come, Policy and tech 

‘Word. Want to grab a beer? We could talk Java. ;)’An instant message from Sabrina. And even though Helen calls Sabrina ‘the teenage bitch’, on account of Sabrina leading the league table of formal complaints made against co-workers, she’s got a bona fide click-bait face.As Sabrina puts the ‘hot’ in ‘hot-desk’, you pause before replying. You don’t want to appear a puppy. You look over your shoulder. Heads are bowed over keyboards, white headphone cords drooping.‘Yes,’ you type, panting. ‘For sure.’Instantly —‘The Pirate Bay, 2000 hours. ＼(ﾟｰﾟ＼)’You call a meeting with Mike in the toilets. He sits in one cubicle, you in another. You both wear plaid shirts and black jeans. Your conversation is interrupted by someone taking a crap, but Mike thinks it unlikely that anyone here would have the technical capability to hack Sabrina. Apart from him, of course.‘Looks like you’ve got a date, friend,’ he says. ‘Just don’t make her angry or she’ll file a complaint. Also — her laser-pointer can burn through flesh. So I’m told.’The Pirate Bar is the ‘happening’ hang-out in tech-town. You’ve never been, because of the dress code: it’s pirate. Helen’s visited on one of her dates and says the interior doesn’t look like a galleon or island hideaway. Instead, it’s designed to resemble an office cafeteria. To calm the technies. Instead of staff, iPad Mini Airs, sunk into tables, take the drinks orders. The booze appears in one of six dumb waiters. There’s a gang of unseen illegals upstairs, making sure the operation works smoothly. You can see the appeal to the tech worker — most non-tech locals are put off attending because the place appears to be a pirate-themed bar AND the iPads mean avoiding awkward conversation with non-techs about craft beer.You search Amazon and order a Six hours later, you arrive at the Pirate Bar looking like Johnny Depp’s idiot brother. You feel vulnerable not wearing a plaid shirt and black jeans. You take an Uber because you think sitting on the bus dressed as a pirate is inviting bloody tragedy.‘There’s an UberBoat in Turkey,’ you tell the laughing Uber driver, trying to make light of your costume, but he pretends not to understand English.But you have the last laugh as you give him three stars.The Pirate Bar bouncer, dressed as a bouncer, waves you through. Inside, it’s busy with thin, intense glasses-wearing pirates, most wearing your identical costume, sitting at long tables and having intense conversations in nasal voices. There is no Sabrina. You wipe the screen of the closest iPad mini with your pirate cuff and order two craft beers. Attractive people are always late. Hitler was famous for it.Two craft beers later, Sabrina still hasn’t arrived. You think to ring her but you don’t have her digits.‘A kid could code in Python, I meaaaan,’ says a woman next to you. Her pirate friend nods so vigorously that his skull-and-crossbones hat falls off.You open Twitter to send Sabrina a direct message, but she’s unfollowed you. A number of co-workers have done so you since the slanty-mouthed tweet.An incoming call — the theme to It’s Sabrina. She’s been waiting for twenty-eight minutes. Your stomach is bloated with craft beer, but you don’t tell her this.‘I’m here,’ you say, turning your eyes over the bar for sight of Sabrina.‘No, you’re not,’ she replies. You can hear background talk of sport where she is. There’s no background talk of sport here. Only coding. ‘You’re definitely not.’‘The Pirate Bar, right?’ you say.She laughs. She asks if you’re serious. You reply that you’re so serious that you’ve a plastic cutlass hanging from your belt.‘My message said The Pirate Bay. I’m in The Pirate Bay.’She explains The Pirate Bay is a neighbourhood dive owned by one of the original founders of The Pirate Bay. You get to watch the latest film releases on the TV and everything.‘It’s just that I’m dressed as a pirate,’ you say, in case your earlier reference to a plastic cutlass hadn’t registered. ‘You want to come here?’‘Yeaaaaah,’ says Sabrina. ‘It’s just that Pirate Bay is around the corner from my place. You know, in case we want to carry the party on after closing time.’You order an Uber. You Google the correct bar’s street address. The cab takes longer than usual to turn up because your last driver had rated you one-star.At The Pirate Bay, pretty much empty, thank fuck, apart from a group of poker players, Sabrina is leaning across the bar, talking to a man whose tight t-shirt does nothing to disguise his muscles. She’s wearing a plaid shirt and black jeans. She kisses you European-style, an inch from your left cheek, mwah, and introduces you. His name is Brad. Never has a man looked less like a pirate.‘You the torrents guy?’ you ask.Brad doesn’t immediately answer, instead he’s looking you up and down and grinning.‘Pirate Bar, right?’ he says. Sabrina laughs. ‘Hey! Mike! This guy’s come from the Pirate Bar!’ Mike is sitting with the poker party, they look to you and bark anti-pirate abuse. Brad beckons you closer. He leans over the bar and whispers into your ear. ‘Talk of torrents is verboten. The place is bugged.’ He leans back. ‘Anyway, artists should be paid their dues. Isn’t that right, Sab?’Sabrina giggles. You order two beers. Sabrina takes you to a corner booth. You take off your Jack Sparrow hat. You apologise for not being able to do up any more buttons of your pirate shirt but at least you don’t have a hairy chest like some men. You say that you can’t be the first person to confuse the two bars.‘You’re a developer. You work with code. And I’m sick of marketing. It’s so … cut-throat. No pun intended. So tell me — if I had to learn Java or C++, which would be better? For a career. I need advice.’‘Seriously?’ you ask, your life’s entire accumulation of good humour pissing away in a dribble.Sabrina takes a gulp of her beer.‘Seriously. I’d ask you at work but I don’t want people knowing I’m unhappy. You know what they’re like. I remember talking to you on the appropriate use of social media training day. The other programmers just stared. I mean, you stared too. But you also talked.’You begin -‘Java is a class-based, object-oriented programming language developed by Sun Microsystems in the 1990s …’Forty minutes later, Sabrina is sitting at the bar, watching Taking the bus back to your apartment, you look a very sad pirate. So sad, in fact, that the local youth only point and laugh. They throw nothing at you. You resolve to burn the pirate costume the next morning. You resolve never to go on a date ever again. Sometime in the future, sexy robots will be created. And if they aren’t, you can always get castrated. Now, if Amazon had provided a genuine cutlass …Buoyed up by knowledge of my greatness, indulged by waiters, favoured by the women in the market and adored by passers-by.Everyone else’s stories and ideas

Cartoonist | Illustrator | Jokesmith | Political cartoons, comics journalism, humor and non-fiction. Words plus pictures.

Rare genetic disorders affect around 8% of people, many of whom live with symptoms that greatly reduce their quality of life. Genetic diagnoses can provide doctors with information that cannot be obtained by assessing clinical symptoms, and this allows them to select more suitable treatments for patients. However, only a minority of patients currently receive a genetic diagnosis.Alterations in the face and skull are present in 30–40% of genetic disorders, and these alterations can help doctors to identify certain disorders, such as Down’s syndrome or Fragile X. Extending this approach, Quentin Ferry and co-workers trained a computer-based model to identify the patterns of facial abnormalities associated with different genetic disorders. The model compares data extracted from a photograph of the patient’s face with data on the facial characteristics of 90 disorders, and then provides a list of the most likely diagnoses for that individual. The model used 36 points to describe the space, including 7 for the jaw, 6 for the mouth, 7 for the nose, 8 for the eyes and 8 for the brow.This approach of Ferry and co-workers has three advantages. First, it provides clinicians with information that can aid their diagnosis of a rare genetic disorder. Second, it can narrow down the range of possible disorders for patients who have the same ultra-rare disorder, even if that disorder is currently unknown. Third, it can identify groups of patients who can have their genomes sequenced in order to identify the genetic variants that are associated with specific disorders.The work by Ferry and co-workers lays out the basic principles for automated approaches to analyze the shape of the face and skull. The next challenge is to integrate photos with genetic data for use in clinical settings.Opening up science for everyoneBringing you research findings relevant to human health

I love the government, which is why I work in tech.I was a senior in high school when 9/11 happened. I made my decision to pursue a job in national security and counterterrorism after graduating from Georgetown. Several years into the work, my passion for the mission remained, but I felt trapped by bureaucracy, paralyzed by Washington culture, and — let’s be real — pretty disappointed by the lack of James Bond-like technology.That’s when I found a crazy start-up called Palantir. With a vision for revolutionizing data analysis, they attracted incredible talent, nurtured a fast-paced work ethic, and tolerated absolutely no bureaucracy. It only took a couple of meetings with the team to realize the opportunity this company had to impact the war on terror far outsized what I had been working on. So I joined them.Six years of rapid growth later, Palantir was one of the most important — and Now, there’s an old maxim that says you can always tell which industries are overheated by watching where Harvard Business School graduates coalesce (like frenzied blood cells to a gunshot wound). This is equally true of government officials who tend to wait until “the party” is already raging to arrive, wondering why they didn’t get an invite.But in 2015, saying you want to work in tech is a bit like saying you want to have a job that pays a salary. If you’re only looking to transition into the industry due to some colossal case of FOMO, do us all a favor and stay home. If, however, you’re an idealist looking for a way to actually accomplish the goals the government has purportedly set out to, you belong here, and it’s possible to find a fit. But there are right ways and wrong ways to go about it.Most importantly, care about something. Silicon Valley is driven by passion. Wanting to be a part of the industry in general means nothing. Find a small handful of companies you’re really excited about and learn everything you can about them. Build a narrative around what you think is broken in government or with an industry, and why Silicon Valley — with your help — can help solve the problem. Be ready to have an honest conversation about your government experience: tease out the good where possible, focus on what needs reform, and don’t use buzzwords or jargon. If you know your area, sound like it. “That’s classified” is a non-starter.Once you’re dedicated to solving a problem, there are basically three ways to enter the industry:There’s no better way to control your own destiny than to create it. There are a number of examples of successful founders coming out of government service. Most of these companies identified huge problems in government and are working to fix them. If you’re fed up with the drudgery of your government job, figure out what the problem is and whether or not you’re uniquely suited to fix it. (Hint: If you’re not sure, then you’re probably not.)This is usually the most direct way to leverage skills that you have developed during government service. Most of these larger and more mature companies have built boundaries between different sectors of their business, which is important, because like it or not, your talents (unless in engineering) probably aren’t good for company culture. Winning companies, generally, are not built around people that are really good at navigating bureaucracies. They are built around engineers, innovators, and risk-takers, who by and large, distrust politicians, lawyers, lobbyists, regulators, and bureaucrats.That said, your expertise will be helpful at the right stage in a company’s life cycle. Uber, Airbnb, Facebook, SpaceX — at all of these companies, the government relations and legal teams are separate from core operating functions such as engineering, product design, etc., yet the teams understand the technologies, understand the business end-game, and “get” the culture of their respective companies. That’s key to their success.This is oftentimes the best way to be core to the culture and business of a tech company, and it is the route that I chose. In general, the worst thing you can do is waltz into a tech interview and tell an engineer or founder that your deep experience in Washington is what will make or break their company. You will have ample opportunities to use your government-developed skills, but don’t make them central to your contribution.Figure out how to translate these skills in ways that are uniquely important to the business. Get as close to the product as you can. Are you a skilled networker/communicator? Build a role around interfacing with customers using the product and demonstrate your expertise. Are you a clever program manager? Carve your niche around product design or engineering management. Most importantly, what have you done that demonstrates your ability to effectuate a desired outcome? How have you innovated?Broadly speaking, for any of the above options, work to understand what engineers do, and learn the vocabulary. Buy an Arduino kit, install a Linux build for penetration testing and start looking at your home network traffic, and impress the data scientists by learning how to write a decent SQL query to pull your own data. Just like commissioned officers need to understand what it’s like to be an enlisted soldier going through basic, you should know what it means when a software engineer says they started with BASIC. No work should be beneath you. You’ll likely be building a lot of IKEA furniture, pulling Red Bull-fueled all-nighters, and learning how to play Halo.Whatever approach you take, the best companies will likely have no idea how to use you. But that’s only because everything in technology is new. Your job, now, is to participate in that conversation. What’s the world supposed to look like? Fantastic. Now tell me how to build it.What does the future look like?Accelerated Learning, Tech, Antifragility, and Definite Optimism

_____________At some point all technical leads discover they need to delegate, but then often have little or no experience with it. When I started at Google as a software engineer, I didn’t understand the importance or really even the meaning of delegation. But I observed that some teams just ran I want to talk about some tactics that I saw successful technical leads use and provide some tips on how you can implement them. Specifically:Like many technical leads, I started off as the first engineer of my team at Google. It was natural for me to feel a special ownership of the product as it was my baby and my responsibility. When I first had to delegate though, it felt like other engineers were Beginning leaders falter fully handing off projects in any number of ways. They might continue running meetings, keep some parts of the project for themselves or encourage the point person to do things their way to prevent mistakes. Many times, these things are done in the name of “helping out” because the lead is more experienced or faster at doing certain tasks. Turns out though, this holds back point people from learning plus hurts morale.If a lead holds onto any part of a project, they subvert the point person since they then can’t own the overall plan. By staying overly involved for the purpose of finding all mistakes before they happen, the point person never gets that experience. One of the easiest ways to make sure that a point person feels full ownership is to have an explicit handoff. There is a big difference between the phrases “can you work on this” and “you own this now”. If you intend to delegate a task, use the appropriate amount of formality to make this understood. For small bugs this can be as simple as changing the “owner” field. For larger projects, a conversation or a handoff meeting might be better. If you do have a conversation, make sure that:Going over these things in person also allows the lead to build an initial connection around the project with the point person so future followups are smoother.Fully handing off a task it doesn’t mean your job is done. Instead, you need to move to the background and support the point person from behind. Lets take a simple example: Lets say a question comes in about a project that you delegated and know the answer. Whenever this would happen, it always seemed easiest to simply respond rather than bother the engineer who now owned the project. But doing that trades short-term pain for long-term pain: it causes inconsistent answers since I may not know the latest developments, takes away valuable information from the point person on the questions being asked and is a distraction for my day to day tasks. Most importantly, it took away ownership from the point person by inadvertently superseding them.So in this situation,On strong teams, the effort a lead puts in supporting from behind is well rewarded. Engineers develop a loyalty to the technical lead because they know they will get credit for their success (which they got more easily due to the support). Then because they’re developing their own leadership and execution skills, the whole team gets stronger. This is why some teams inside Google simply ran After a task was delegated and I was providing support, it was tempting to think that I didn’t have to do anything else. Sometimes surprises popped up months later though — issues like lack of progress or questionable design decisions. By checking out, I gave up one of the most important responsibilities of a lead: verification of the completion and quality of the work.You can verify a project’s progress in a number of ways. Typical methods include 1:1s and casual hallway check-ins. Sometimes these can be ineffective though, since it’s hard to dig into details of various decisions. In those cases, I recommended my point person keep a written track of ongoing project progress (like with email or Slack). If teams preferred to work by talking face-to-face, When you have larger feedback to provide, it’s often best to provide it privately to the point person. Its helpful to let a point person learn from their mistakes, but you don’t want them to walk off any cliffs. For critical decisions, private rather than public discussions avoids subverting their ownership. If changes are needed, the point person can then suggest it publicly. Hopefully that critical change works out and the point person gets the credit. But if the change doesn’t work, the lead can step up taking the blame. This is another example of how a lead can support from behind.Sign up at Pointer is a reading club for developers. It’s a window into what other current and future CTOs are reading and thinking about. Subscribe at 

You’ve seen it all over the news, the tabloids, the social feeds. Now (thanks to As an upcoming junior in a Computer Science based major, I ponder on my journey as a woman in tech and the impact of being a “minority” in a field I care so deeply about. Looking back, there were several occasions I noticed certain ideals that acted as obstacles in my journey in tech. And though I was never steered off course, I could see how other women could easily have been.I will be the first to admit I am a geek at heart. Ask Growing up, for those who knew me, I was the ‘go to’ for anything tech. To anyone else, I wasn’t. Why, you ask? I didn’t “look the part.” It turns out, no one looks to the woman in a dress, a plaid long-sleeve shirt tied around her waist, and sandals, to fix their latest technological problems. They seem to look for the one in the latest startup t-shirt and a hoodie (which I totally There is This problem has recently received more exposure thanks to Isis Anchalee and the #ILookLikeAnEngineer movement. However, this doesn’t mean the problem is solved yet. If we want to fix the problem, our society still has a lot to improve on when it comes to changing the stereotype and idea of a woman in tech.As a college student, I didn’t really notice the impact of being a woman in tech in the school setting until I got to the more advanced courses. In those courses, the number of women dwindled to about one or two total in a room of about twenty to thirty students. I have been in several courses where inappropriate topics have been brought up and dismissed, yet never addressed.After those instances, I understood the dwindling number of women in tech- why would I, let alone Last year, I had been looking for a summer internship in Software Development. I had the opportunity to interview at a couple of really impressive companies and the experience was great. I learned As the interview progressed, the interviewer brought up job positions. He asked me what I was looking to do. I told him Software Development, just like any other interview I had. I was really excited because the company was iOS based (Swift and Objective-C). I had experience in both languages and was looking to learn more. In my head, it was the perfect match.The interviewer then informed me that At that moment I told him, I’d really prefer to go into a Software Development position. I had some experience with Swift and Objective-C and I had currently been working on an app that used image recognition to detect brand logos in social media images for a school project. He said he’d have to speak to higher authority, but he said no promises because interns usually go into qualitative positions. It was what was always done.I wouldn’t still be a woman in tech if the pros hadn’t outweighed the cons. I think this is the case for many women in tech, as well. There is so much opportunity in the field- All the best, Kat.UNO IT Innovation Student | Software Engineering Intern at Flywheel | Social Engagement Strategist at Interface: the Web School | President of UNO CEO

It’s a funny feeling working for a tech company in San Francisco and not possessing a single technical skill. I can’t code, and the extent of my HTML ability is bolding and italicizing text.And you know what? That’s just fine.My job is communicating with our mostly nontechnical users, and finding more of them to try our product. The marketing team at Our small marketing department is actually nicely set up in this way. We do have a more technically minded marketer on staff that helps break down the technical components of our product to the less technically savvy of us. There’s usually a white board involved and a few confused questions. But once it makes sense to us, we ready ourselves to tell the world. That’s when we get to use our areas of expertise.Some people call marketing skills “soft skills” — a term I’m not a fan of. These soft skills had to be developed for just as many years as technical skills, just in ways you wouldn’t imagine, like through extracurriculars after school or through various fields of study in college.In an nutshell, here are the most important attributes for our marketing team to possess:Writing is really the most important thing the marketing department does for JotForm, and we do it every day in one way or another. Whether it’s a blog post, guest post, update for internal employees, social post, video script, press release, medium article, pitch email to press, or vendor email, it needs to be crafted carefully and thoughtfully.The first thing I check every single morning when I wake up is the daily report telling us how many users we gained from the previous day, broken down by our various pricing plans. If our team wasn’t concerned about this, we’d be in the wrong business. Growth is everything, and its marketing’s job to concern ourselves over that more than anyone else.Not advanced calculus, but a genuine understanding of data. Numbers are intertwined with words for our marketing team. We write, then we check to see how it does (how many comments it receives, how many pageviews, how many referral links back to JotForm, how many shares, retweets, etc.).Of course, there are plenty of other skills that help us through the day, but those are at the core of what we do.The reality is, we have a swarm of talented developers who understand what goes into making JotForm what it is. Without them, of course, there’d be nothing to market. But having them be technically proficient allows us to focus on what we’re best at, which is communicating.Cat lover. Marketing and Communications at JotForm related.  Ideas. Stories. User guides. From the founder of JotForm and others.

Somewhere in the first paragraph of Sheryl Sandberg’s I wish I could say such a tragic event isn’t what made me decide to read If I had to guess the demographics of This seems to be the instinctive reaction to fixing the gender imbalance in tech. It makes perfect sense, right? If there aren’t enough women, set a goal to hire more. But saying “we need to hire more women” is as arbitrary as saying “we need to hire more people over 50” or “we need to hire more people from the Midwest.” What companies should be saying is “we need to hire more people who are amazing at what they do.”I don’t know about you, but I don’t want to be selected for a job or chosen to speak at a conference to increase diversity numbers. I want to be chosen because someone thinks I bring something awesome to the table. I didn’t choose to be a woman, or to be 24, or to be Jewish. But I did choose to make a career change to programming, and I think that’s pretty cool.A colleague of mine always warns us against quickly proposing a solution to a usability bug before getting a deep understanding of the problem. I think that’s exactly what’s happening in the tech industry. Rather than trying to bring more women to tech, we need to focus on the women who have chosen to be here and empower them to stay.I don’t get upset when I see a company about page or conference speaker list with 90% men, but I do get upset when the women who have chosen tech One of my favorite conferences to present at was The solution I’m proposing is simple: have an open mind. When you meet a woman at a tech event, ask her what she does before jumping to your own conclusion. Assume that she’s here because she wants to be, and that she’s chosen a career in technology because it’s exciting, always changing, and full of potential. I think it certainly is.Dave Goldberg was not only a champion of women in the workplace, he was an icon for the men who make it possible. He showed us that men have a critical role in making women feel supported at work. Women-only groups can be effective, but ultimately men are the majority and we need their help to elicit change. We can all be more like Dave.Getting more women in tech is a hopeful outcome, but it’s definitely not the solution. It will happen organically when the women who are here feel fully supported. When you hear someone say the tech industry needs more women, I urge you to think of the women Connoisseur of code, country music, frozen dinners, and homemade ice cream. Doing JavaScript things at 

A Bostonian by way of Dallas, he graduated from Tufts University in 2010, majoring in International Relations and Arabic, and transplanted himself overseas to work for the United Nations in Syria. After returning to the U.S. in 2011, he founded “From the Kitchen” features a curated collection of posts from respected and insightful voices in the food, tech and hospitality industries. With the goal of fostering thought-provoking dialogues, responses are welcomed.If you liked the post, please hit ♥ so others can enjoy it too.The Reserve Editorial TeamA better dining experience. Available now in the App Store and on Google Play.Food for thought from the hospitality community and friends. Curated by the content team at Reserve.

So here’s the three ideas I sent him, in my original shorthand. They aren’t fully-thought out, they are intentionally risky, big, costly — how I think government should behave whenever it tries to influence the economic future (vs balancing a budget or winning an election):Not an idea but an extra bonus plea: Growth at 

(Drum roll) And the winners are:io.js, the legendary Node.js fork, has achieved two major things: it made possible to use It is still not clear if and when the codebases of both io.js and Node.js will be merged together, but reconciliation discussion is very much alive and you can follow the progress As far as reassurances go, Node.js / io.js technology stack is the best I have ever worked with in my life: excellent performance, simplicity and incredible amount of Just to put things in perspective:Rubygems.org, the package manager for While on NPM at the time of writing there are Javascript, the language behind Node.js and io.js is doing well too.Final point to consider: Javascript is the React is a Facebook thinks that you should be re-rendering the app every time your data changes to achieve the best performance. Wait, what?!Enter the React processes all your operations in a separate Virtual DOM written in Javascript without touching the browser. Then it computes the absolute minimum number of operations needed to apply those changes to the real DOM using DOM diffing (React is not only fast, but it’s simple to write too. Here’s a small ToDo list app written in React:The interesting thing to note here is that the code above also uses But what about mobile?Just imagine the possibilities, if you would not need to worry about code fragmentation or performance and you could deploy your code into any platform without modifications (hello, Adobe AIR)?Today, cross platform appsFacebook knows this as well, that’s why they chose a slightly different path by throwing their support behind React Native makes use of native platform components such as UITabBar and UINavigationController on iOS, multithreading, asynchronous code execution and hardware acceleration.With React Native apps can achieve a It’s true that React Native renders the results on your screen using a different engine than React in the web browser, but Using React and React Native does not eliminate the platform overhead completely, but it minimizes it significantly by offering reusable components and ability to write your application in the world’s friendliest language — Javascript, without worrying about performance.React is a But first, I have to give a special shout out to the guys at In fact it was so fast, it Apple snatched up this amazing technology company and the talent behind it leaving nothing for the ailing web.Luckily the rest of the NoSQL industry did not stand idly by while FoundationDB was breaking records. Almost the same day Couchbase Here’s the highlights:These features make it a perfect candidate to fill the gap left by FoundationDB acquisition.Recent advancements in data storage technology have proven that speed, scalability and data durability Meanwhile Couchbase 4.0 looks like an amazing technology which you should absolutely consider for your technology stack in 2015.If you enjoyed this, let me know on Twitter CTO 

Technology makes a lot of things easier, like ordering food or finding directions or donating money. The humanitarian sector has been quick to take advantage of technology, especially to make fundraising more efficient. In 2010, after a massive earthquake struck Haiti, we were introduced to an important innovation in humanitarian aid: text donations. As part of the massive mobilization of aid to Haiti, phone companies and aid organizations teamed up for a campaign that made donating as easy as texting the word “HAITI” to a certain number. Since the $10 donation was added onto your cell phone bill, you never even had to fill out your credit card information. It was an immensely simple, easy process (and one that was possibly inspired by American Idol, but don’t believe everything you hear). The American Red Cross At the height of the Ebola crisis in 2014, Facebook rolled out Some interesting things about 1) The “Donate” button let you pick one of three NGOs to direct your money to, but we have no idea how Facebook selected these three organizations out of the hundreds that are working to stem the tide of the Ebola outbreak. I’m certain there was a finely tuned process behind Facebook’s list, but as the donor, you don’t know what that process was, just that you should trust Facebook’s choices. I was also a little surprised to see that Facebook’s short list left off highly regarded organizations whose Ebola efforts are already well-publicized, like Doctors Without Borders, Oxfam, and U.N. agencies like UNICEF and the World Food Programme.2) The way these “innovative” campaigns are designed, even though 100 percent of your money goes to the nonprofit, you never actually have to connect with the organization itself — both text donations and Facebook’s “Donate” button spare you from having to learn anything about the organization before you fork over your money — not even a visit to their website is required. Facebook’s system is so perfect that you never even have to leave Facebook. This is not surprising, but a little weird considering most of us won’t even give $5 to a homeless person because we “don’t know what he’ll use it for.” Either we trust these organizations (which might be pretty foolish — the Red Cross is hardly the only nonprofit that spends millions on its “public image”), or we’re just lazy. Or both.3) This is only the second time Facebook used a “Donate” button to encourage users to give to a humanitarian cause (the first was to Technology like cell phones, social media, and other marvels of the modern age are helping to “innovate” the humanitarian industry, largely by making fundraising more efficient for both the donor and the recipient. Facebook has immense reach — it has over 757 million daily users — and the button will show up at the top of your newsfeed for a full week (assuming you live in one of the 30 countries where Facebook has selected to show the button on its site). For the donor, the process is easy and streamlined. For the recipient organization, the campaign boosts their social media presence enormously and thus — it’s safe to assume — their fundraising footprint as well.Humanitarianism was an “industry” well before people were texting “HAITI,” but the digitizing of our public sphere accelerates this process of commodification. Soon, the field of humanitarian aid organizations will resemble any other modern marketplace, where products are offered for purchase and all other elements of the economic cycle are concealed from the consumer. Commodification streamlines the process of donation, making it easier and more efficient, but it also makes our relationships with humanitarian aid organizations more impersonal and prevents us from knowing exactly what aid is being given and under what conditions. In other words, technology and commodification are expanding the scope and reach of humanitarian organizations, but they also amplify a disconnect between the donor and the actual messy, on-the-ground humanitarian work, with its endless complications, nuances, and contradictions.I’m curious about what the future holds for the “technologization” (please forgive the use of this awkward word) of humanitarian aid campaigns. Is it a sign that tech companies like Facebook are Which brings up an interesting dilemma for the potential donor wanting to “make a difference” in the fight against Ebola: With hundreds of NGOs on the ground in West Africa, how do you choose which to support? Many people will donate to an organization they’ve donated to previously or one that they are already familiar with; but very few people will actually do serious research on the organization’s reputation and activities before they click “Donate.” I don’t even know what organization my donation went to when I texted “HAITI”; I just wanted to feel like I did something.Texas-based, history-obsessed blogger/writer thinking critically about human rights activism and aid. Contact me at 

This is yet another example of a once technical term that was stripped of it’s substance and turned into a By On the other hand the term So what shall us I’m an entrepreneur × software developer living in the beautiful Quebec City. I love solving real problems with software. I drink a lot of coffee.

When I first arrived in New York from Sydney, Australia, every New Yorker brimmed with a stunning self-confidence I couldn’t quite emulate. Never mind my fear of But in a country so large and a city as populated and competitive as New York, I soon learned to navigate my way despite the challenge of getting in front of hiring managers, without local experience and a small network. I owe it to LinkedIn, Facebook and the generosity of tenuously-linked acquaintances that I was able to connect with so many talented people and join an inspiring team at More recently, trying to hire great talent for our own teams has been a new challenge. I’ve spent hours scouring LinkedIn, helping our HR recruiters filter through faceless applications and emailing my networks for recommendations.So we started Our goal is to help companies that care about building exceptional teams.But it became evident that our mission — exceptional teams — was about more than just connecting talent. Here was an opportunity to connect not just great but As we navigated our initial concept, we noticed that lots of people We realised our bigger mission was to help companies build exceptional teams and expand their hiring pipeline by surfacing diverse talent.Yes, And that’s what companies like Pinterest and Google acknowledge. But they’re also We applaud the fact that so many large tech companies are bringing resources and large scale diversity initiatives together; and we know it will Instead of placing the onus of improving diversity on the groups most affected, we hope to support the companies and their people in power to effect real change. We’re ready to surface diverse talent to companies that care about impacting their pipeline with talented individuals of all backgrounds.Join our open beta at If you like what we’re doing, we’d love your help getting the word out! Feel free to Australian exploring NY via listlovers.net. Co-Founder Connecting diverse talent with awesome companies at helloawesome.co

Last week in technology was bursting with ideas and concepts — some too good to miss. In the innovation pipeline: a real Check out my weekly digest to be on top of tech industry wave — and share your thoughts.Sometimes it seems like technologies are actually becoming smart enough to guess out thoughts. Each and every new app claims it can curate news, music, videos, any content to the tastes of one and only user — and millions of others. But Julia Greenberg makes a fair point — when it comes to delivering the most attention-grabbing and quality content, the automation or leaving users to their own devices might not be enough.Real people of flesh and blood are that next big thing which tech industry is looking for every day, she says. And tech majors are already catching up — Apple hires editors and DJs for upcoming News and Music apps, Twitter plans to find editors around the globe for events-based feeds. Even Snapchat is looking for content analysts.So, is it true that content curation is just another word for classic journalism editing? And are tech companies ready to take responsibility for bias and subjectivity of humans again, when algorithms are no longer an excuse?Yes, technologies need people. Even the algorithms are created by humans, framed and defined by their mindsets. But we’re facing much deeper shift than merely returning humans the functions which they can perform better.For a few years now I’ve been petting an idea that media future doesn’t look like newsrooms or specialized production studios. Media of the future is a patchwork of numerous outlets curated by companies and people. Look at Elon Musk or Nike — they create their own messages and stories bearing a greater social value than any newspaper feature.But it could be bigger than that. Julia Greenberg brings the point that tech giants start becoming media outlets curated by humans. I think that not only tech companies can do it. When the key businesses start looking beyond PR and realise they have something to say not just about themselves, then the disruption of media space will become unstoppable.Mail.Ru, among others, went through this shift. A few years ago we had a typical content aggregator curated by algorithms. But we chose another way and created a professional editorial team, responsible for agenda building and content creation. And the efforts paid off — we became a respectable source of news for millions of readers.I bet that more and more people from traditional media will come to non-media businesses. They will bring the high standards of professional journalism on board and marry them with companies’ goals. And if they do it right, the next big things will have a human face and speak to people in their language.Lexus, the well-known car manufacturer, has developed “Back to the Future”-inspired hoverboard, just like the one Marty McFly cruised around town. Using magnets and nitrogen-cooled superconductors, it indeed can levitate. But it only works on a metallic surface, so don’t expect to ride one to work soon.Hoverboard is a dream coming true for the whole generation on 90s kids. And Lexus’ move just proves my point — companies become cool when they look beyond profits and dig into culture. Sci-fi for years has been an inspiration to millions of engineers — and the gap between a fantasy and real prototype shrinks every year. Ideas of Jules Verne needed a century to become true. Hoverboard was created within one generation. Who knows, maybe Interstellar turns into reality within a few years — as we see, Mars One is already on the table.Apple was not planning to pay artists during the trial period of Apple Music launch, which is expected on June 30th. But music industry showed the teeth. Taylor Swift, a country music star, published an open letter to Apple saying she wouldn’t allow “1989,” the album she released last fall, on Apple Music because of its free trial terms. Apple capitulated — and got some indie artists on board. Still it is uncertain if Swift appears among them.There are no doubts that Taylor Swift within a few days became Joan of Arc for indie musicians. Could she be considered one of them, is still a question though. Swift is a star, and she can afford playing at high stakes. But will the less-known indie artists benefit in long term from joining the rebellion? Apple is the biggest seller of music online, and supporting its new product now — even for free — might turn into bigger profits later on. I guess that strategic thinking is the best option for independent labels in that case, while Taylor Swift can enjoy her well-deserved publicity.Some exciting news on a startup side! LittleBits, who manufactures modular components that allow both children and designers create everything from toy robots to lightweight industrial products, has raised $44.2 million in Series B funding. Grishin Robotics joined a pool of investors to support pushing LittleBits ambitions in a bigger world.Big things emerge from little details. Perhaps, from those small open-source components produced by LittleBits. Pushing the boundaries of creativity, the projects like Lego Mind Storm, Google Project Ara or LittleBits allow to create prototypes which are just different. Considering the surge on internet of things (IoT) which will amount 26 billion units by 2020 as Intel forecasts, modular sets have all the reasons to become a mainstream. And, as a fact, funding LittleBits fully complies with Grishin Robotics’ plans for consumer robotics market.Google jumped into health research wagon, showing a health-tracking wristband that could be used in clinical trials and drug tests, providing doctors with minute-by-minute data on patients’ conditions. Company envisions that in 20 or 30 years physicians will give it to all patients to predict and prevent life-threatening diseases.Let’s be honest — as much as we like the idea of healthy lifestyle, only a few of us can be bothered to go through a regular medical checks. If FitBit, Apple and eventually Google talked millions of people into using their products, they might be the ones to make people finally look after their health. Of course, this trend comes with challenges — ensuring privacy and processing big data at such a scale might be tricky. But it could bring a bigger social impact — just imagine a platform based on real-time data which sends a GP an alert of worsening medical conditions, allowing to prioritise the patients who need care the most.Enjoyed this week’s wrap up? Recommend and share it around.BizDev  Communications at 

Investments… Sweetest dreams for startup founders, risky bets for the ones who finance them. This week I bumped into some good stories about investments in tech: how to keep Check out my weekly summary of trendy tech stories and share your thoughts!It’s official — angel investments became a mainstream fashion in Valley. In 2014, almost 3 thousand angels jumped into financing round, tripling the 822 angels from 2010, says CB Insights. Showing how it actually works, Mike Isaac from NYT brings aboard a picturesque story of Apptimize and its founder Nancy Hua. Her startup raised money from 21 angel investors — and only after trimming the numbers.“Seed investing is a status symbol of Silicon Valley. Most people don’t want Ferraris, they want a winning seed investment”, says Sam Altman, the president of YCombinator, bringing even more grounds to the statement.So what does it mean for tech industry? On the one hand, securing angel investment has almost never been easier. Nowadays the competition among angels is so high that it might take you just 30 seconds after the pitch to get your millions. Still have doubts? How about that — angels are already paying for trainings on fast and successful investments.Still, there are some downsides. When many angels are involved, no one might feel responsible for the company if it gets in trouble. A handful of early stage investors might also mean a handful of opinions of startup’s strategy. Just imagine, how many suggestions do ZenPayroll founders get a day if they have 56 angels on board!Unfortunately, there is no straight answer. The market is over-heated, but angel frenzy is hardly on the peak. More and more people from non-tech industries take their bets in tech — and it means as many valuable insights and connections as disagreements and misunderstandings.First and foremost, although securing many investors is tempting, it’s better to think long-term. Do you want your controlling stake to be spread over dozen different people? Are you ready for a massive pile of calls and emails replacing the actual product development? And are you OK with reputation of a startup not trustful enough to secure a leading investor?To sum up, if you have good ideas — you’ll find the money, and probably even more than you need. But keep your controlling stake close — just in case.By Bob O’Donnell, Internet of Things is arguably one of the dearest children of tech investors. What could be better for making people more addicted to technology if not integrating technology in every single part of their lives? And one of the biggest promises of IoT are insights — tons of data from different sensors picturing the life of a human in all possible colours.Bob O’Donnell, founder of Technalysis Research, doubts that. Sure, the myriads of IoT data entries will flow into analytics systems. But are there any analytics that can actually cope with them? Only a system or two can currently produce really valuable insights, others, he argues, cannot produce merely useful data on a regular basis.I’d disagree. Although managing expectations is important, the potential of big data generated by IoT is endless — and some companies already prove it. I personally know a Russian MIT graduate who helps Walmart saving billions using IoT big data. Another one created a startup allowing businesses to analyse CRM data and increase sales based on insights about customers. And recent move by Target only IoT analytics have only scratched the surface — and that’s normal. The more data is piled up, the more patterns and correlations it could provide. Even the valuation of social networks is currently based not on the amount of ads they could sell, but on the user data they can get. With competition becoming fiercer, brands will queue for the opportunity to reduce costs via big data. And for IoT analytics it’s definitely not a dead end, but the opportunity to build upon.By Mark Bergen, Search is the basics of internet, its top-1 asset — and problem. Let’s admit it — people rely on search hundred times a day, but already becoming too lazy to actually search what they need. Predicting the questions and giving direct answers — that’s what users expect from search now.The interview with Aparna Chennapragada, executive who runs Google Now digital assistant, lights up the curtain from the future of search as seen by Google. Google Now, as she says, takes three major bets: integration with semantic Knowledge Graph, tapping into context and tying this context to the apps on your phone.Why not? What we see now with semantic search, app deep-linking and query prediction, is seriously cool. With such a valuable asset as Android is, Google can change the way people search on mobile — no more lists of links, but answers, data entities and app actions instead.Not only Google is picking up this battle. Apple has shown some serious improvements with Siri, and Microsoft plans to cover it all with cross-platform Cortana. With machine learning at the back-end, soon our smartphones will know what we want even better than we do. And let’s admit it — the search becomes cool again — if you don’t believe me, just ask your Siri how much is zero divided by zero.Augmented reality and virtual reality are another two segments closely watched by tech investors. By certain estimates, AR/VR market might hit $150 billion in revenue by 2020. Still, trillions generated by mobile by that time put that figure in perspective. While early market movers are already facing the threat from tech giants — Microsoft with Hololens, Facebook with Oculus and even Google with Cardboard.So, what could drive AR/VR to and beyond $150B? Tim Merel suggests 7 market shapers: mobility, vision, immersion, usability, flexibility, wearability, and affordability. Especially the last one — “the elephant in the room is price”, Merel says.With some effort. The key is that AR/VR vendors should not try to produce the “next big thing” — instead, they might try to build something first of the kind. Bringing the new dimension to vision and magical immersive experiences, brought to live, can change the consumer electronics forever.It’s true that getting AR/VR to mass market will be a wild and potentially bumpy ride. But isn’t it worth it? It only needs time, effort and thriving minds — while the money, as I earlier said, is already on the table.In the upper-grade investment world, unprecedented 4-hour halt in trading hit NYSE last week. One of the largest stock exchanges blames the first major outage in 10 years on technical glitch. What’s more interesting, the same day United Airlines and The Wall Street Journal also experienced technical troubles catching attention of US Senate an FBI.Trading these days is hugely dependent on computers — just remember a famous Facebook IPO which was delayed due to technical glitch on NASDAQ. For many years NASDAQ and NYSE were competing for major tech listings — but none of them still cannot guarantee that investors won’t lose millions to internal outages. So maybe there is a room for another stock exchange — created and secured by world-class developers specifically for tech market?BizDev  Communications at 

Over the past two years or so, my Twitter feed has been bombarding me with stories and comments on stories about women in the tech and gaming communities speaking out about experiences of sexism and discrimination. And I’ve been bookmarking about half of them, because as a woman in technology myself, it’s a topic that’s obviously deeply important to me. And that’s part of the problem.When something’s important to me, I don’t want to screw it up. So I collect links, promising myself I’ll read every word of every article I’ve bookmarked, I’ll get all the data and all of the opinions and infographics, because if I miss any of it, someone could criticize my lack of thoroughness or inability to articulate all of the nuances of the matter. Or worse yet, I could come back to the published article a month later and find something I missed.Because I’m also constantly comparing my words to all of those that have come before — and there’s a lot. Don’t get me wrong, I love that so many people are talking and writing about women in tech. I think it’s awesome and terrifying. Awesome, because this is an issue that’s long overdue for its day in the spotlight. Terrifying, because those who have written about it have rarely escaped consequences, ranging from legitimate criticism of their own previous statements to outright death threats.Above all, it’s intimidating. Let’s be honest — no one really expects much from us tech journalists. Sure, we’re pros when it comes to salivating over the latest iGadget, but when it comes to topics that really matter, there aren’t that many in this field willing to tackle them — or that many readers who even want to think about the deeper issues when browsing a site full of new shineys.And then there’s the fact that I’m writing about women in tech, but am I These were the thoughts racing through my mind as I hit publish last night, but publish I finally did.Full stack human. I am a (digital) nomad, not a farmer. More: annaspysz.comHere there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.

Two years ago this week I was working at a tech company at 1871, Chicago’s tech co-working space, and I commented on a post about the lack of women in tech on the Built in Chicago forum. An editor from Crain’s Chicago Business reached out to me to see if I would expand on my ideas and write an editorial for the magazine about why I thought there weren’t more women working in Chicago tech. Why they didn’t ask the original post author, Yes, I thought. But we already know that tech is dominated by white guys. I didn’t really feel like writing an editorial representing all women in the Chicago tech scene; I wasn’t even an active member of women in tech groups or friends with that many women who worked at 1871. But I did know a lot of women business owners who were making shit happen at a very grassroots level and who the city, it seemed, didn’t give two shits about. I’d rather write about how the businesses that are inclusive of women are being shut out and shut down by the city. So that’s what I told them.If being a woman gave me access to a soapbox I wouldn’t otherwise get, I thought, I was going to take it.They said okay.When the essay was published I made a conscious decision not to read the comments. I knew there would be some element of what I said that wouldn’t sit well with some women in tech, that maybe it seemed I was saying most women weren’t interested in tech.Of course a follow-up essay appeared as a response to say how dare I speak for all women in tech, women who are perfectly capable of building their own websites and scaling massive enterprises. But when I opened my mouth two years ago, despite having reservations for exactly this reason, it wasn’t to speak for all women in tech. It was to call out the hypocrisy of a city that supports an industry dominated by white males while actively trying to shut down businesses that are traditionally more accessible to women and people of color, those with lower barriers to entry that rely less on business school connections.While the entrepreneurs at 1871 had access to endless amounts of financial and human capital to sandbox their sometimes horrendous startup ideas, ideas that solved the problems of an elite few and often failed due to lack of market interest or operational ineptitude, real Chicago small businesses were closing their doors because they couldn’t operate around out-of-date City of Chicago licensing requirements. Their ideas had been validated by the marketplace, but they couldn’t legally operate in the city. City leaders who showed up to the “workshops” for This still makes me mad and it should make everyone mad, and I’m not thrilled that I only got the chance to write about it for publication because I was a woman working at 1871. Having to write about it with that lens, and with the unfortunate headline, “Why Aren’t There More Women in Chicago Tech?” takes the issue away from Chicago’s hypocritical and hostile business environment and turns it into the tech version of the mommy wars: a virtual cat fight through potentially viral content, provided for free by women who want to speak out about issues that are important to them.I don’t blame the editors at Crain’s for this. I didn’t turn in exactly what they were looking for and I thank them for giving me the platform anyway. But how could they expect one woman to effectively answer the question they posed. Why there aren’t more women in Chicago tech? That’s a research assignment, not an opinion piece.I could only speak for my own experiences at 1871. I arrived there as a former small business owner (I quit my business in 2012 and handed the keys to my business partner, a story for another post), eager to meet other entrepreneurs, and was shocked to find that the founders there weren’t interested in building businesses, they were only interested in scaling infinitely scalable ideas.Chalk it up to me naively thinking tech was just small business with better web design skills. Despite my decade-long exposure to the startup community in the form of bibliographical fandom (my home library included copies of the 4-Hour Workweek, Re-work, back issues of Fast Company, etc.), I didn’t realize startups were an entirely different business model. After a while it was clear that 1871 was a place where clueless business school graduates were showered with resources until they failed fast or pivoted. Need reservations at an exclusive restaurant at the very last minute? We can get you those. Want to rent out anything in your apartment to your neighbor to earn extra cash? We can facilitate that.And it was mostly men.I didn’t have the vocabulary for it until recently, and I regret not being able to sum it up more succinctly: startup culture isn’t interested in what’s known as a lifestyle business. It’s considered a weakness to have a target audience interested buying some Startups with the potential for mass scalability require founders to be available at all hours to co-founders, employees, customers (if there are customers) and investors. They may require an ass in a seat at an incubator that’s hundreds of miles away from home. They don’t allow for much personal time. So who does that leave to run them? People who have access to capital, industry connections, education, physical health, and time to themselves — time that doesn’t have to be spend on family or work obligations outside a (sometimes unpaid) startup gig. These are most likely to be young, white men.Of course many people who are not young white men have founded successful tech companies. There are also many young, white men with health problems, aging parents, children, lack of access to capital or other issues which limit their ability to participate in demanding startup culture who did it anyway. However the reality remains: startups place demands on people that are most likely to be fulfilled, given our current cultural and business landscape, by white men. We know this, and we continue to fund tech initiatives as if they are the answer to our city’s economic future.I don’t think there’s anything wrong with supporting tech if it’s part of a larger initiative that supports all kinds of business growth. If we want to support an inclusive business environment that paves the way to a future vibrant business culture in Chicago then we need to make the practice of starting a business inclusive to people of all backgrounds.To do this we have to:I would like to see a city that supports innovative business ideas in the tech and brick and mortar space, whether it’s selling coffee on the street, creating a shared space for food entrepreneurs to safely prepare products, or a tech environment that strives to provide access to developer talent and startup capital to people of all backgrounds. It’s not about women versus men or worse yet, women versus women.I’m sorry if it didn’t come off like that the first time around.Freelance digital marketing person in Chicago. Starter of many things, finisher of some. The riches are in the niches. More fun at: 

A couple of months after I read Adam Davidson’s article I grew up loving film and wanting to do film. I think 8th grade me understood that I didn’t have the ability to focus on one project for the rest of my life and I wanted to work on giant collaborative projects that had the potential to make people (me) famous.But I was sidelined by the competitiveness of film — everyone wants in and there’s no money. So by my freshman year of college I decided to do something else. That something led me to marketing tech products. Now I know a lot about customer acquisition and conversion optimization. Sometimes I use those powers for good, sometimes evil. Mostly I use them to build other people’s businesses.I think I was attracted to tech because it was a lot like filmmaking: a group of experts coming together to build something. Like film, there are huge successes, huge failures and short memories. There are famous people and gurus.But there are many ways that tech — and work, in general — is failing the most creative people who do it. And that is why I’m ultimately leaving in favor of something else that I don’t know what it is yet.For decades, people in bands have been doing exactly what I’m talking about: grouping together people with diverse talents and a shared idea and creating something new. (People I know in bands, or who used to be in bands, consequently, make the best project managers and marketers. They are people who are intrinsically self-motivated.) No one forming a band asks, “How am I going to get paid doing this?” Or, “What happens if we have one really successful thing, how are we all going to split the money?” People in bands realize that how you make money when not playing music is your problem and you’ll cross the royalties bridge when you come to it. First, let’s just play some music.So if I were starting a band this might be easy, but as a person interested in building businesses and tech products, it’s an unorthodox way of starting something.Rarely is this system, so familiar to theater companies and comedy troupes and musicians, extended to business without money getting immediately involved. Money is great — we all want to make money. Many of these ideas eventually will make money. But initially we just need someone with set skills who is passionate about the project, much the way a band needs a bassist who plays in a certain style and will get along with the group. Why don’t we structure projects like this in the tech and business space?I have a few ideas for digital products floating around in my brain/on a Trello board. Some of them even have pet names and I don’t have an answer for how this would work, and I’m not even sure if putting projects in a pile and building one thing is how it works. Rather than focus on the details and logistics, I want to see if this nebulous idea is something that interests other people.When I kick this idea around in my head, it looks something like:Benefits I think would come out of this:Ultimately I quit because I saw a better way of working. I want to build things Freelance digital marketing person in Chicago. Starter of many things, finisher of some. The riches are in the niches. More fun at: 

writer at the Message and elsewhere / data viz at the New York Times / vijithassar.comA Pandaemonium Revolver Collection. Season 2 stars 

According to my mentor What you choose to build speaks for itself, more than anything you claim. It shows that you are so engaged in a problem that you would spend free time to solve that problem.Then write about the stuff you build, the challenges you face, what you learn, and how this project is relevant to addressing the problem you want to solve. Writing about what I recently built helps me organize my thoughts and makes me reflect on what I’ve learned from the development process.Writing for a target audience is also very important. In my last Not just recruiters or employers. Figure out your own direction and what you want in your next role. Be honest when approaching people. Whether it’s to maximize your learning, or to build your company’s suggestion engine, all of it starts with an honest conversation with someone. I never initiate conversation with the intention of getting a job, but more so to understand what they’re about, whether they are someone I want to work with, or if I can contribute to their project.In my recent meetings, I had to turn down contract jobs because many other things were going on, but I did not walk away empty handed. I still communicate with those people as colleagues and friends.These moments of serendipity make the job search tolerable and almost fun. If all my meetings turned out like it did with my last offers, I would be very happy job hunting.Meetings also don’t only occur in interviews, but also at meetups and conferences. Attending a meetup for something you’re really interested is a great way to not only learn and network, but also meet other people that share the same interests.Whiteboarding practice is necessary. It’s a skill tangential to programming, and it takes practice to write code outside of an IDE and without documentation. In my experience, coming up with algorithms on the spot is not the hard part, but more so the expression of your thoughts to someone in a clear and coherent manner; pair programming is an excellent way to practice this. I have to thank In the past, I thought that my technical ability was not up to snuff. During pair programming, I realized I learned to handle almost any problem on the spot with the help of google and stack overflow. The insight my partner offered on how she approached a problem was also very important to how I learned as well. I can use and incorporate the thought process into my own way of thinking.Building and writing are the easy parts. The true challenge is meeting people and interacting. Don’t get discouraged if your first interaction with someone doesn’t work out. Reflect and adjust your behavior or criteria for the people you want to meet and eventually you will find someone that will not only listen to you, but also openly share their projects and dreams.I hope this helps people who read this get their dream jobs in tech. This post could not exist if without the insights of my mentors This post was written by 

Greg, I don’t think I even hinted at the idea that tech has been bad for San Francisco. I am an investor and an indie publisher, and in both arenas, tech has made my career. I love tech. I love San Francisco. But I think those who have benefited from the good times (and I have, at a level far more than I deserve) should share the wealth with those who have not. And that includes many groups — artists getting squeezed out by high rents, first responders and teachers who can’t afford to live in the communities they serve, and disadvantaged kids like the ones 826 serves.I really don’t think my post sells any myth at all.My point is that tech has generally been great but we can do better.I write NextDraft, a quick and entertaining look at the day’s most fascinating news.

Jim Parsons, star of the CBS TV comedy He recently spent several days in Los Angeles shooting a series of ads for Intel RealSense, a 3D-camera technology that brings human-like vision to personal computers.He arrived at the set after spending time on his own playing around with the technology. In between acting in scenes and posing for 50 of the most awkward driver’s license photos ever, he sat down for a brief interview with iQ.Here’s a slightly-edited transcript of the conversation:My very first experience with a computer was the Commodore 64. I was in elementary school, and I don’t know why we had it, and I don’t know why I was learning really minor programming skills. You’d do whatever it was to make a dot run around the screen and then repeat itself again and again. It did not lead me to a career in this field, however.My devices are a laptop, an iPad, my phone, and my Kindle. And see this is where it gets interesting because [technology has] so infiltrated one’s life that I could go and say my DVR and my Sonos system, all the way down to the microwave. I don’t feel very technologically savvy. I’m not a gamer or anything, and yet I have surrendered so many responsibilities of my life to technology, and it’s made a lot of things easier.I’m somebody who takes it for granted. You take advantage of it like you do electricity. It’s there — but hasn’t it always been? — even though I’m very aware that it hasn’t.I think that goes to good design, too, because the things that I use on a daily basis are so well designed that you don’t have to think about it. It’s not a constant marvel. The marvel is that it’s not worth thinking about. It’s just pressing a button.I get excited about anything new, to be honest. And that even goes to things not technology focused. Like a new book, or a new TV show, or a new whatever. I don’t consider myself somebody who completely geeks out on new apparatuses as it were. But at the same time it’s very exciting, and you do want to have your chance to see if this is something you want to take on and use in your life.Getting to play around with this technology left me feeling astounded. There’s something so natural about it, in an exciting way. But it’s a little freaky at the same time. Like for the 3D scan, all I had to concentrate on was holding my head in one position and moving left and right. It didn’t even take long, and it didn’t need me to do a whole lot, and bam! It was there.In one click, [a digital version of my face] was put on this avatar. I don’t happen to play video games, but if I did, I could be me in any video game. It’s just so fun, because for years you’ve been able to use touch screens, but this has an effect of feeling almost like you’re being able to apply more pressure, even though I wasn’t touching anything. The effect seems to go deeper [than just a touch screen experience].I would like to see it help people live better lives. I would like to see it help people who are hindered in some way, whether it be physically or emotionally or mentally.I do get the sense that we’re headed there very quickly. I don’t understand exactly how, but to me at least you can sense that, and that’s a beautiful use of technology. That does something wonderful for humanity, more than just showing us where to buy things on Black Friday — not that there’s anything wrong with that … spend, spend, spend!Intel news, views  events about global tech innovation.presented by Intel

Against the backdrop of a rapidly changing American landscape, there has been a major push for the technology industry to ensure that its employees and leadership structure reflect the diversity of our nation. Established technology companies like Twitter, Slack, Facebook, Google, Pinterest and Yelp have released their statistics as a result of this demand for transparency. The data demonstrates that certain groups, particularly Black people, Latinx and Native Americans are heavily underrepresented. One thing remains clear: The Indigenous/Native American, Latina and Black women listed below are each making huge waves in the industry. Next time you hear someone say that it’s nearly impossible to find speakers from diverse backgrounds for technology conferences, you can simply point them to this article.Tomorrow marks day one of the We’ve taken the time to assemble a list of panels  workshops that are not to be missed if you are invested in a more diverse technology ecosystem.A non profit organization that supports, advocates  nurtures Latina, Indigenous  Black women technology professionals. #wocit

I had the privilege of attending the In its recent years, Grace Hopper has become a major recruiting opportunity for tech companies eager to address their diversity issues, and a platform for both industry and political leaders to take a stance on the gender gap. Notably, the audience has grown to include non-engineering women-in-tech like me, which I believe is an important step to building an inclusive industry that values diversity of all kinds.Here are my key takeaways from this year’s event, important for men and women alike:If you have a chance to attend Grace Hopper in the future, make the trip. And to steal Jack’s call to action, bring a guy along with you for the ride :)Business Lead at Google Creative Lab. Brand builder and storyteller. At the intersection of tech, design, and health.

Part of being an art student is that you inevitably see art everywhere, whether it’s meant to be noticed as art or not. This goes for anything — drawings, graffiti, cars, apps — and most recently for me, Twitter profile avatars.As I was scrolling through my feed the other day, I saw a number of avatars go by, and my resulting thought process surprised even me — I thought wouldn’t it be cool to analyze those the way I used to analyze art pieces for my art history classes (well, cool is relative I suppose, but I’m an art nerd, so there). So that’s what today’s post is about: no talk of music, apps, or any major tech trends. Just an artistic analysis of the profile avatars of four tech investors. I wasn’t sure exactly how to order these, but I decided it would interesting to go according to an art history timeline, rather than simply by alphabetical order. Let the analyzing begin.Looking at Wilson’s picture, the enlarged eyes and clearly defined jawline fit the mold of Expressionism which Schiele helped to pioneer. The eyes are deep-set — almost sunken — but with a gleam that seems to burst from the canvas, made even brighter by the bold green that encapsulates the pupils. The cut jawline is mirrored at the top of the piece by raw, almost rugged strokes of brown making up Wilson’s hair. Yet while the zig-zag strokes chisel the top of the portrait in an almost sculpted way, the slight waviness of the hair on either side of Wilson’s heads help to capture a curved smoothness which bleeds out into the dynamism of the green background.The life of the piece, though, is centered in the eyes, and the cheeks. The eyes swirl knowingly — disjointed only by the large space between them. The cheeks meanwhile, glow warmly with the only hot colors on the canvas: a roughly hewn pink which darkens towards the face’s edges. Even the the portions of the piece where the paint seems too thin are almost indicative of Schiele’s practice of leaving paintings unfinished. Collectively, Wilson’s avatar contains deep traces of Expressionism roots, though nodding to a lighter palette than was typically used in Europe at the time.It’s also worth noting, however, that Schiele is not the only art master represented. While still set amid deeply defined contours, Feld’s jawline is nonetheless more curved and flowing than Wilson’s, and with the light stream of pink that follows the chin-line, Feld’s smile is captured perfectly. The curvature of the lower half of the portrait plays on the wavy strands of hair which sit at the top, floating in a controlled messiness which adds a sense of jubilance to the work.The most striking feature, though, is Feld’s eyeline. Encased in straight-edged square glasses, the eyeline cleanly divides the portrait into two halves, thereby introducing a sense of order into an otherwise happy-go-lucky piece. The Of particular note, though, is Feld’s smile, which reminds me of pieces by a famous Pop artist, though not one the mainstream is too familiar with. Much like Lichtenstein’s “Drowning Girl” (1963), Hunter Walk is portrayed in a series of curves and flowing lines. Though obviously different subject matter than the aforementioned painting, there is nonetheless a similar ebb and flow that connects the two. Walk’s hairline is jagged only in certain spots, leaving the rest to create a circular movement around his head. The dynamism that this movement contributes to the piece cannot be understated because it is precisely mirrored by his shoulders and neck tilt.Rather than appearing stilted and set, Walk seems to lean into the movement, adding to its run through the picture. Even the shadowing of his beard and smile accentuate the flow of the centripetal movement. The darker shade of gray used for the beard moves along the face smoothly in some areas, and yet is cut sharply in others, much like the movement of waves splashing up against a cliff. The smile, meanwhile, is simple, but creates an eddie around which the flowing contours of the beard and facial lines must move.Perhaps most interesting of all, though, is the way in which Walk’s beard in the piece seems to harken back to Lichtenstein’s common use of pointillism. While clearly one solid color throughout, Walk’s beard is nonetheless styled and colored in such as way as to Perhaps the most post-modern piece of the four is Andreessen’s avatar is a mix of post-modern, cut-and-paste qualities, but it also employs a sense of Pop which is prevalent in the other avatars. The sharp, clean lines cast the picture in brisk light, asserting that it’s so simple, there must not be anything under the surface. But there is.The cartoonish Pop quality hides the other influences which dance through the piece. The basic oval-shaped hands, straight-line eyebrows and simple circular head harken back to the bare-bones approach towards geometry of Cubism, while the flat, cut-and-paste quality is indicative of the Superflat movement. As Cubists like The simple, circular curvature of Andreessen’s head in the avatar seem to mirror the circular head of the girl in Picasso’s “Girl Before a Mirror” (1932), while his egg-shaped eyes mirror those of the man in the Juan Gris painting, “Harlequin with Guitar” (1919). The flat quality of the avatar, however, jumps almost a hundred years forward, to the Superflat movement of the 2000s, pioneered by Murakami. As Murakami explored the flatness that depth could have in pieces like 2001’s “Tan Tan Bo,” so too does Andreessen’s avatar explore concepts of flatness and depth (perhaps without even knowing it). In its exploration of depth and geometry, Andreessen’s avatar is thus more artistic than it initially appears.Though these are just four analyses of four Twitter avatar’s it’s become clear that art and tech are more closely intertwined than perhaps initially thought. This might explain why I see Like Loading…Brandeis grad // Lover of Art, Poetry, Startups, Music, Journalism // Tech Founder and Deadpan Humorist

A Guide for the Wary Tech TravellerInspired in part by the ban of entire subreddits…Cofounder of Fittr. Illustrator of Tech Doodles. 1/3 of The Craft marketing newsletter. I love life and lemurs — and alliteration.Thoughts on tech and social norms that pop into my head and onto paper.

“So when did you get into tech?” is the unavoidable question flung at me in every tech or startup space I’ve entered in the past 9 months since launching The idea is that there had to be a pivotal, savior moment for me and my black body to interact with machines and the languages that instruct them. In this notion lies the violence against me, the theft of birthright as a naturally curious and scientific minded young girl who would soon be condensed— then marginalized based on race and perceived gender. Because I am not a white man, it’s assumed that technology is second nature and somewhat alien to me, rather than an intuitive seamless experience. I believe that working in tech is rooted in the core of who I am, and not just because I was able to access a computer at an early age or spend time coding in high school. I think I came to tech because I realized the spans of my blackness and queerness combined with the knowledge that only black folk possess certain perspectives key to solving some of the world’s most critical problems. When I read various works on blackness, as it relates to our common oppression, I often wonder if our collective trauma contains the threads of salvation we have been seeking. When I think about the ideal mind for innovation, whether they be an entrepreneur, student, or designer or any sort, who would actually be able to contend with the world’s most critical issues and solve them, I imagine a queer black person.My first formal experience with tech as an occupation came when I spent a few months working with some graduate students from MIT on a startup revolving around the nightlife experience. It was incredibly insightful to work with other people of color and see how they modeled and then were able to create their own realities, somehow circumventing the red tape of white institutions that I was used to. Being in tech offered them, and me by association, a pass to spaces and people that would have been normally inaccessible, given that you understand how socioeconomic status and race work to preserve the elite class by simply making it invisible to those who don’t qualify to be apart of it. I remember being young, scared and feeling alone when I decided to leave Northeastern University in Boston and spend the summer in Brooklyn, exploring both Silicon Alley and queer youth culture. I was seeking a community, heaps less racism, and a general location to begin the deeper internal healing and strengthening work that needed to undo the mis-education of white supremacist histories. I used Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr as launchpads for more intentional social building, a trend I see beyond my own circle of friends. I felt my self-acceptance growing with each click, as I realized that because I was blessed to see the world for what it really was, I would potentially be able to create my own networks and digital spaces, loosely linked via pre-existing platforms and groups.Anyone who identifies as anything other than straight knows how integral social media usage is in order to do what our heterosexual counterparts certainly take for granted — let alone trying to identify safe spaces for qtipoc and non-binary folks. For many that I know personally, access to various tech platforms is akin to a digital lifeline, classroom, and chosen family. The beautifully intricate networks created by people of color online are simply the seeds of liberation and I honestly smile when I think about how all over the world, people of color are building, hacking, reusing and re-purposing the tech available to them to undermine the oppressive white supremacist capitalist structures that have previously kept us in the dark, far from the building blocks of society and the vaults of opportunity. My heart literally flutters when I think about the thousands upon thousands of marginalized people, but most of all black queer people, who will learn to code, dream up their own digital worlds, platforms, and spaces to redefine the idea of who can become an architect of society.Naturally, I experienced the harsh realities of being young and black in corporate and tech spaces, working at notable companies in Midtown Manhattan and north Brooklyn, just to realize that not only was I the sole black hire in at least 2 years but 1/3 of the female employees and the first person under 35. Then comes the shame of being paid much less than a non-black coworker for doing the same, and often better work — as if the added prestige should be enough for me to overlook it. Honestly, if I could collect money for every time a black woman in tech has retold this same tale, we could have our own venture capital firm. But, alas capitalism is inherently racist and we wind up back where this system wants us to be, despite being Being a black queer woman, and therefore being thrice oppressed, I understood that I was naturally able to innovate in ways that the average white man would never be asked to — simply as a result of a legacy of terror and the brief moments of recourse we are given in our daily lives. Complete strangers, bonded by our melanin and desire for support and community, use these platforms more actively and arguably produce the best content than any other group. Black folk, simply by seeking to honor their blackness in online spaces, have transformed how the world views activism, social exchange, content creation, skill-sharing — but most importantly, in doing so we are reconnecting the diaspora.For the greater part of a millennium, black people across the globe have been subjected to various forms of violence and oppression via the white supremacist innovation machine. Guns and gun powder, germs and medical experiments, cotton gins, and railroads all have levied their weight on the backs of black bodies to push certain groups in society forward while leaving communities of color without resources, space, and time to heal, let alone to innovate and create effectively apart from established institutions, all of which were fueled by racist, colonial agendas. Black bodies were enslaved for the sake of social structuring that positioned whiteness above all else while creating a gargantuan financial advantage over other groups. When we talk about legacy and the use of capital, especially in relation to tech, we are referring to the harnessing of those same reigns that choked my ancestors out of the classification of humanity. When we name all of the communities of color, the black and brown invisible participants in the world of tech, we begin to see that the same architecture for white supremacist colonial empire is being employed actively in the same industry supposedly out to save the world. If we are being honest, mainstream tech is a colonial movement by another name. Numerous tech companies and the leagues of ignorant white people employed by them are pushing out people of color in neighborhoods across the country, short-lived havens from the historically racist redlining of a generation past, now playgrounds for the hipster racism that drives by in a Tesla while police harass and force our black and brown bodies out of spaces now deemed worthy of your “rejuvenation”. To be black and radical in this current landscape often feels like running after a flying target, or rather an entire group of cis white men who are convinced they are problem solving when they are in fact a major part of the problem.Many social media platforms are powered by black culture, black creativity, and discourse centering various forms of black activism. Queer black women push this further by driving and leading literally all of the impactful activist movements since 2013. This is a well known fact. And yet Twitter is still centers whiteness in its hiring practices and in policy, reflective of how the colonial narrative is integral to how we view tech today. Who is expected to build and supervise while others simply exist and carefully negotiate the status quo? Visibility via hiring practices or temporary spotlights certainly doesn’t stop the violent acts of racism, sexism, and other various oppressive forces from manifesting on a mass scale in tech spaces. In fact, by setting the bar so low that black folk should be satisfied by working at white tech companies and achieving perceived equality in this way is deeply insulting and evident of the psychopathic reflexes embedded in mainstream justice and “diversity” work. Programs likeWhose hands are being used to mine the coltan from the earth, then turned to tantalum to be packaged in expensive iPhones with a half-life of 2 years? I wonder if hardware developers think of the black and brown person(s) whose life is halved due to strenuous labor and the pressures of a society still haunted by the ghosts of colonialism and European occupation? If you knew how many black and brown hands were involved in the process to create your machine, would you then ask me still, “What brings you to tech?” I desire to create because I aim to solve my own problems first, and in doing so, work through and against the decades of scientific racism that allowed technologies to be created in silos, imagined only by white minds and therefore elementally lacking. The next time someone asks me how I got into tech, I will tell them that I’ve always been in tech, from the fibers and circuit boards to the slang you confidently steal from twitter and yes, even the 1/100th of your local tech company, positioned strategically in the first row of the company photo. I firmly believe that a better tomorrow can only be envisioned by black minds, survivors of the waves of a slow and systematic genocide, but also fundamentally gifted with the blueprint for global liberation.CEO/Founder - Thurst @ 

Last week I had the honor of participating in the inaugural From changing social media marketing tactics to new ways of thinking from restaurateurs and the front of house, there was excitement — and a sense of change — in the air. Presenters ranged from OpenTable, who one panelist called the “original innovator” in the space for digitizing the reservation book more than 15 years ago, to up-and-coming startup companies like Reserve.A few key takeaways from the day have stuck with me:From the very first session — an amazing discussion between Union Square Hospitality CEO Danny Meyer and Steve Case, Chairman and CEO of Revolution LLC and Co-Founder of AOL — there was an optimism about the potential positive impact of technology on the restaurant industry. Saying that “Shake Shack would not be Shake Shack without technology,” Meyer’s biggest lesson in business was one that he learned from the tech world; “Scale” doesn’t have to be a dirty word, and technology could empower and power the restaurant world to grow.On a panel about reservations, Will Guidara from Made Nice talked about how as a self-professed “Luddite,” his distaste for technology was so strong that he started having staff at From POS integration to a great session on security from Reliant’s Phil Stead, many key areas that were merely touched on during the Summit could have provided enough fodder for another full day of discussion. CRM tools and business intelligence, including better reservation trend data and no-show rate tracking, were two additional areas that restaurateurs in particular said they wished more tech companies would tackle.Throughout the course of the day, a theme of change, competition and evolution emerged. It was invigorating to see and hear the full spectrum of innovation at the intersection of tech and hospitality. I’m hopeful that it will be the first of many TechTable Summits to come, and that in the meantime some of the conversations started at the event will continue. TechTable was a great opportunity to help accelerate the rate of change for the industry and give us a taste of what might be possible if we can work together in partnership to develop solutions that actually meet restaurants’ needs while helping make the dining experience better for guests as well.founder/CEO of Food for thought from the hospitality community and friends. Curated by the content team at Reserve.

This post is designed to help technical people (product managers, developers) educate non-technical people (Account managers, clients, the company’s CEO) in how to effectively write up a simple yet effective bug report. It was written to limit the amount of times the engineering and product teams receive feedback like “It just doesn’t work.” Many of these non-tech folks don’t have the time or technical inclination to get super detailed in an email but ultimately that can end up costing way more in time and resources than most people think.Here are a few simple steps to follow:• Include a brief description of the issue and detailed, step-by-step instructions on how to reliably reproduce the issue.• Provide the specific status or error message that you received.• Include the URL of the page visited before and/or after the bug occurred. What page were you on when the problem occurred and how did you get to that page?• What did you click on? Or if it wasn’t a click, what other action did you take on the page? For example, if you were filling out a form, what was the exact content that you entered into the form?• What did you expect or want to happen when you performed this action?What happened instead?• Technical details are important more often than not. Visit • Please include a full-browser-window screenshot (including the browser’s window frame and status bar) showing the bug. Human beings are visual and a picture often conveys information a lot faster. Ideally the screenshots would be annotated via an online annotation tool like Ideally, this protocol should be established with team members in the early stages of a project. Part of the reason to do this is to formally educate the team on the cost of reproducing an issue with the proper details vs. without details.If you found this article useful, could you please hit the recommend button below so that others can benefit from it, too? Thanks!I’m the Director of Quality Engineering at Business Insider and serve on the Board of Directors of ReLitNY. I get excited about bicycling, New York City, Boston, Belgian Beers, technology, and social justice. I’m mildly tall for an adult male. Learn more at Director of Quality Engineering at 

I majored in English at the University of Pennsylvania. During my time there, I found that Penn’s separation of the Business school adversely affected some students. Subconsciously, these students started to believe one could only “do business” if he or she were enrolled in the Wharton school. Professionally, I’ve seen this same deterministic attitude applied to careers in technology, that is, one can only be effective in an engineering-fueled industry, if one has If you’re considering a career in technology, I can tell you first hand that being able to speak knowledgably to engineers goes a long way. It is foolhardy to think you can collaborate with someone without knowing how to speak intelligently about what he or she does. Engineering isn’t just there to bring all of your great ideas to life. Beyond obtaining the respect of your engineering peers, programming knowledge helps in basic project planning. Product Management, for example, involves a lot of task scheduling. A good product manager must be able to say with confidence that his or her engineering team can (or cannot) complete X task in Y days. If you, personally, have no idea how to complete X task, you’re going to be relying on what your engineers believe they can do (best case scenario) or just guessing (worst case scenario).Having some proficiency in programming also allows you to be self-sufficient. When I developed and debugged my first Python script that I actually ended up using at work, I had a great sense of accomplishment. I didn’t have to get internal “buy-in” or try to yank a developer off of a project he/she was already working on. I identified a problem and solved it on my own. I’m not saying that I became an expert; the script was less than 20 lines of Python code. It queried a database and performed some screen scraping based on a set of user inputs. I didn’t solve a complicated algorithm or create the Next Big Thing but I automated a manual task, showcased it to my own team, and decreased my team’s workload just a little bit more. More than anything, it demystified the coding process. The entire experience made me feel like So, how do you start? Personally, I love Udacity’s online courses. They’re free and the introductory classes don’t presume much prior technical experience. The courses also emphasize 1. 2. Having majored in English, I am very confident in my abilities to read, think critically about what I’ve read, and synthesize a position on what I think it means. These skills are actually more widely applicable than one might think. For example, more and more software today is concerned with the user’s experience and the “jobs” the software must accomplish, in order to be useful. Understanding the motivations of a user or the needs of a customer is fairly similar to the empathy one must have for a character when trying to understand that character’s reaction to his/her environment. You’re using the same empathy, just with a few new vocabulary words. Becoming more fluent in programming and business startegy, of course, isn’t going to come easily. You’ll have to continuously seek out knowledge to deepen your skillset and then prove that you can apply what you’ve learned. To that end, developing a portfolio that showcases what you’ve done is critical. Building hobby projects and re-factoring your writing skills to showcase how you think about current industry topics are two ways to accomplish that.You can still make your way into the technology industry even if you don’t have the archetypal “business” or “tech” background. Don’t close yourself off to tasks that If you’d like a primer on basic business vocabulary, I suggest If you’d like an example of excellent business analysis, I suggest Ben Thompson’s (@monkbent) blog, Stratechery. (Studied English 

Gender diversity is a subject that is on the forefront of most employers’ minds and the gap is significant in the Information and Technology Industry. Only 17% of information and technology roles are filled by women across the average company, and SEEK’s stats do not fare any better.The need for gender diversity is defined on the website So here’s the difference between us and the average company: We’re doing something about it.In our latest Hackathon, Sarah Redmond from our Learning and Development team decided to turn her idea into reality by developing a pilot program to get ladies interested in technology while they are still at school… and Camp SEEK was born! Our pilot program will kick off in the September school holidays and we’re looking for Year 9–11 students who have chosen STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) subjects, or expressed an interest to choose STEM subjects to join a week long program held at SEEK headquarters in Melbourne. (The girls will need to know how to script/code already or be willing to do an online course before the program starts).Camp SEEK sees the girls learning about Product, Design and Technology from industry leaders at SEEK and other companies. The schedule will look something like this:To finish the day , the girls have the opportunity to talk to a panel of women who work in technology within Melbourne to give them an understanding of how they developed their careers in the information and technology space and what barriers they faced.In the afternoon, our Product team walks them through a cross disciplinary approach to product management starting with ideas, identifying the minimum viable product, planning iterations and releases.At the end of the last day the girls will present creations to the judges, who will choose winners, and then celebrate their success with the SEEK staff, friends and family.I was hoping you would! Please get in touch with Sarah Redmond at The ultimate aim of the Camp SEEK program is to provide an environment for girls to explore and enjoy technology, to understand that it is a disciplined, varied and valid career path for females, and to build relationships with mentors within the industry to help them reach their career goals.It really is the beginning of something big!making a difference in peoples lives at SEEK and making a difference to mine through mental, physical and nutritional healthThoughts, ideas and ramblings from the Tech team of SEEK

By: William TaitSource: www.howtobeamusicsuccess.comI listened to this quote when I was around 14. I remember it to this day.I just left Algebra class and I was laying in my bedroom. At the time, I was big into physics. I wanted to be the next Albert Einstein.Everything in school left me bored to tears and I couldn’t wait to get home and work on “my” stuff.My stuff usually consisted of me reading a book that I didn’t understand but made me look smart, letting my mind wonder about philosophy and the new Halo game that just came out. I didn’t become a famous scientist, as you can see.The next day, I watched I would tell people “You don’t get it, I will be big one day!” and they would all say the same thing:They meant well, but it felt weird. Their words rang true, but it just didn’t feel authentic.It was as if they said that mediocrity was ok. Goals didn’t really come true. They basically said “I don’t really believe you.”The more I perfected my craft, the more people saw me differently.I devoured the guitar, playing 8-hours a day. I was dedicated to the max.Partying? Nope. Vices? Hell no, I got practicing to do.I would take a stack of pennies and practice a measure repeatedly until it was perfect, placing one penny in a different pile. If I made a mistake, all the pennies would go back, and I’d start over.I started separating from everyone else. I was this ball of animalistic will power. My mind was still new to all of this, but through brute persistence, I began to accomplish anything I focused on.When I began to dive deeper into music, I fell in love with my second true passion: Business.While I was being a little masochist on my guitar, I decided to become the next Felix Dennis. I wanted to be a CEO at something. It just sounded badass.I had ZERO business sense of course, so I thought:I stole a Nashville phonebook and I was pretty excited. (Wow William — seriously? Are you that desperate? Stealing a phone book? Yeah, real cool man.)Obviously, I didn’t really have many friends if my idea of fun was calling strangers and making them feel uncomfortable.I was 15 years old and I thought that I could become friends with everyone in the phonebook. Record labels, restaurants, nail salon Asian people — you name it, I called them. I felt that everyone could play a vital part in my vision when the time was right.So, what did I do? I cold-called the headquarters of Sony Music in Nashville.Poor lady. I can still remember her response as she stumbled over confusion. It’s hilarious now but so humiliating at the time. Hell, my voice was just beginning to drop.My face was so red. But, I said — Fuck it, who gives a damn, lets try again.After 5 more calls, I had my first internship. I could feel my body pumping with adrenaline. I felt just as alive as I did when I played music.For years, I was told to focus. Why can’t I focus? — I told myself. I was all over the place and routinely scorned by my mentors because I wanted to try every idea under the sun and read everything about every subject.I knew that I had to fail and fail fast. I had to dive in as deep as I could to fully immerse myself in every facet of education to become successful.Now, this is easier said than done. In reality, I jumped around like a hot air balloon, bouncing from idea to idea, company to company, band to band, and city to city. It looked like a Candy Land board game on LSD. It was a hot mess.But looking back, it’s been my best feature. I wasn’t bouncing around aimlessly, I was TESTING out what I was good at and what I was bad at. I focused on what I was good at and ignored what I was bad at.It’s easy to be like everyone else. You get to look forward to a day job and celebrate company birthdays where you stand around a $20 dollar cake and sing Happy Birthday to Sally-Edna Jane in accounting. That’s easy and takes zero skill.Taking chances in life, failing your way to winning, and becoming great at something — that’s the hard part. And the best part. That’s who we are.But William -You’re so overwhelmed that when you get home, the sheer guilt of working on your stuff gnaws at you until you ignore it with television, Youtube, or alcohol. You just stare at the screen and sigh.And then, that voice hits you: I want you to do me a favor. Have you ever gone somewhere and watched a landscaper mowing a lawn or throwing down some gravel?He’s probably insanely tired, sun glasses on, the whole nine yards. Go up to him and ask him how he got started and it’ll go something like this:Sound familiar?What we notice today is that the very definition of being a success in music is much different. It’s not about the major label contract anymore, it’s the freedom we get to create the art and not worry about life, bills, or anything.We don’t want comfort, we want to be rich. We want the fame also, because there’s unique power in that. And we want to use that fame to create a positive impact. There is no harm in that.We want to take our spouse out to a nice dinner, travel to Egypt and race camels, and have a stocked portfolio that we can manage with little risk to increase our yielded percentage return for investment and long term savings.When you talk to anyone about becoming a musician, what do they say? They probably go:Now, think about anyone that’s ever tried to achieve something. They were told this same thing.The music business is no different than any other business. There, I said it.Sure, it’s more eccentric in many areas, but it’s all the same thing. This is no different than your normal bootstrapped business owner.You are a 21st century audio marketing entrepreneur. And you have a much better chance at making money than the next app/startup.The problem was the original business model itself with the music business. Piracy was just the tip of the iceberg.Income was so diversified over a large staff, all monies and deals collected were hard to correctly manage. And since most musicians are notoriously known for “I just do it for the music, man”, all of their decision making powers were out of their hands as soon as they signed an agreement. They weren’t an owner, but just an employee.Once a large revenue stream vanished, their percentage of the pie dropped immensely and they were fired. It’s the same thing with entrepreneurs who bootstrap and immediately go to investors only to have the investor’s fire them 6 months later.You creating money with your music is no different than me creating money with a startup. Or a restaurant business. Or a trucking business. Or a non-profit energy solutions corporation. All businesses follow the same pattern when first starting out.The difference is in the way the profits are split up in the music business.In a startup, you have 1 founder (MAYBE 2 founders). Before getting a board of directors or a member percentage amount (if you’re an LLC Sole Prop, you would be 100% with no board), you can split any revenue willy-nilly if you decide to get a partner. Whatever works as long as you do it in the privacy of your own home.If you add investors, they take a percentage until that percentage is recouped to indemnification of insured interests and plus some.Originally, the purpose of getting a label was to “make it”, right? But what exactly did you make “it” to?Here’s something you probably already know: a record label deal is not your money. It’s an advance. That’s it.Only difference between an advance and a loan is you don’t pay initial interest even during the recoupment period. An advance is taken out of future profits, while a loan is agreed to be paid back in the future.So, while most entrepreneurs beg for investors at the angel funding level, most musicians beg for a record deal at the indie/corporate level.A majority of labels invest in projects that make no money, which is how piracy damaged everything. By taking away the one artist who made money, inevitably they fell. The biggest flaw in this model is this — you can’t have a sustainable business when a majority of your test products make no money. Simple as that.The successful artists ignore all of this noise until they NEED it because they’re growing too fast and need outside funding/resources. What’s most valuable is the education you learn while under a label, not the money.According to an What does this mean for me now, William?The current shift is happening and the music business is growing again. As technology increases, people will value creativity on a higher pay demand scale, i.e. creativity will be highly valued and thus more incentivized to make money.This ties in with the increase of the entrepreneurial tech age, as most developers and teams are now being hired not just on qualifications, but creative ingenuity and contract labor.This means that the music business will most likely experience massive growth over the next 15 years. Most recently, Taylor Swift stood up against Apple and the reception was overwhelming. People are willing to pay more for value because the market is so oversaturated with LESS value, hence — you get what you pay for.Since a majority of all media is ran by 6–10 major companies, the result will be commercialized general products. What’s missing is something different. Businesses have always thrived because of their inventiveness, not generalization.The emergence of tech/music is a dream come true because it allows us to be unique in front of everyone. Now, you can determine your own hours, your own contracts, and automate everything from sales, bookings, to management.As the management and booking of labels becomes automated, so will the advances. The need for private lending for labels will shrink as the need for physical distribution dwindles. Musicians can now run as a self-automated business.Tech N9ne is probably one of the most rare beings to cross Earth.How can a man overcome such adversity, build an empire from scratch, and sustain it WHILE meticulously brand his own unique identity AND scale it? And do it during a time of massive change pre-internet? What the hell?Being raised in Kansas City, your resources are limited.Tech N9ne worked day and night for decades to get where he’s at today, overcoming some of the greatest obstacles a human being can face. This sparked an endless search for Tech N9ne to discover not only his purpose, but his path. Once he found music, the game was changed.When he was building his empire, the common theme was to go to the big three: LA, Nashville, or NY. Tech N9ne stayed in KC and created his foundation there and is now mimicked by tons of other artists.Nowadays, because of the internet, no one really cares anymore and that gives you a massive advantage not only in company overhead but taxes. You have an abundance of gifts in your area that no one else is tapping, from small business connections to friends and family to push the word out as your test your music.In the 50th Law, Robert Greene told the story of Andrew Selkirk.In 1704, Andrew was stranded on a deserted island. He had nothing except for a knife, gun, carpenter tools and gunpowder.He ran out of food, his clothes were rotting on his back, his knife would soon rust, and he would soon run out of ammo.For months, he bordered on severe depression and lost all hope. He stayed in a cave, starving from hunger, and assumed all was lost. His environment was too unfamiliar for him and he was close to death.After his cave was invaded by sea lions (mating season), he had no choice but to move inland and away from the coast. He soon began to realize that the dark forest he avoided and was there all along, contained everything he needed to survive.He made shelter, found new sources of food, and even domesticated cats for protection and companionship. He was eventually rescued, but discovered something amazing.In our environment, we assume we see it’s limitations, but we really see our own fears. Out of human nature, we stretch out and look for others to guide us, or locations to move towards. We should embrace the exact opposite. Work with what you have, both externally and internally.Tech N9ne saw and recognized this immediate abundance that was untapped. Because of this change, he was able to see his environment that everyone else missed. He saw that this location could be his starting point and would be a logical business decision in 10–20 years. And he was right.While other artists were being groomed for commercialism, Tech N9ne knew that this would lose in the long run.He knew that by staying unique, this would create a lasting empire that would shadow any instant success that most artists aim for and be the basis of his own following i.e. an outlet for other eccentric minds.Microsoft did this same thing. Microsoft had this urgency to express their gift to the world in a profitable business model and use as little outside help as possible.When Bill Gates launched Microsoft, it was him and Paul Allen and they literally cold-called vendors and made promises on products that they didn’t even have at the time.Tech N9ne knew the vision before the product was even perfected. Your first initial fan base will ignore your mistakes because they will only remember the good things as you grow.Use your creative outlet as a marketing vehicle for your business. The music is the tool you use to get your audience to your product and give them double the value over every other artist.Do fans email you and you respond back to them in a week? That’s ok, some artists respond in 24 hours. Who would you go back to for a relationship?Since I have no life, I study tons of artists. What I noticed about pop artists is they seem to follow this path:1. Hustle for fame at any cost.2. Get fame, without knowing what worked or without any testing.3. Enjoy the fame.4. Disappear into oblivion, never to be seen again.The ones who do maintain success have no idea how they do it, so they constantly put out the same material. Meanwhile, as consumers, our tastes change and we want something new. Companies do the same thing looking for the instant success bullet (record labels).Tech N9ne didn’t do this. He meticulously tested his image and product over DECADES. And that’s why he’s so successful today.He talks the way his audience talks, he listens the way his fans listen, and solves burning pains not just in his music, but the value his other products provide (shows, label, merchandise etc). His music is a mirror reflection of what his audience truly wants.As trends become successful, we follow them out of basic instinct. Millions of years of evolution have evolved us into beings that hate to be alone.You have the power to sidestep nature itself and access a higher level through hard work, patience, and persistence. You can be the person that people aspire to become as you set new trendsGoing further into your audience’s psychology in order to give them what they want is vital.If you release products based off of your own tastes, although it will be personally rewarding, your audience may not give a damn.If you test out different forms of collaborations, you will find that your audience is just as diverse as you can imagine. Doing so gives you broader reach for new fans. By mixing your music with other genres, you give your fans an experience that’s unique. They became apart of the journey that you created. They get to decide how your music evolves.One of my tests proved that a majority of hip-hop artists loved mixing classical music with their beats. And that classical artists loved mixing pop music.When releasing a hip-hop track with orchestral music, the response was overwhelmingly positive. It filled a void and brought both parties together in this weird harmonious setting. It was different, but not too different.Hip-hop artists get so burned out on the same beats and sounds.They starve for innovation and new music that’s outside of the box. It lets them breathe poetically and bring their own fire to a crowd that’s not used to this kind of stuff, giving the rap artist incredible power to command and control, more so than his own environment.Alternatively, it gives the classical artist a chance to finally use that pop riff he or she’s been humming, but has been too embarrassed to write it out, for fear of ridicule.In the classical world, there is an unwritten rule that complexity and rules are what make classical music the best. It is a reformed, stoic kind of music. Then Mozart came along and fucked up everything.In the beginning, classical music was the forerunner of innovative sound, especially in Vienna during the 1700–1800s.As Mozart exploded on the scene, before him, was pompous Vivaldi courtyard music. After giving his dad the finger, Mozart came in, balls-to-the-walls and said “I’m here to wreck some people” and made every court officer freak out.But the audience LOVED it, it grabbed them by the jugular, and Mozart became a household name.This is what happens when you mix music just right, not just in genres but in decades.This is called genre-time mixing. A good example is hearing a new artist today and going “Wow, they sound like X from back in the day, but it’s so much different.” To see a good example, listen to One of the methods I’ve tested over the years was converting small test portions of groups into fans as quickly as possible.I wanted to know what it would take for a person to have never heard of me and then want to buy from me in 5 minutes.What I would do is take my music, go door-to-door or out on the streets, and test out psychology and sales scripts (Again, my best friend was a phonebook at age 15).In between houses and businesses, I would write out my results and notes. If my tests proved my hypothesis, I knew it would work at any level. What I found was this:I then tested it on the phone. At the time, I booked performance gigs for a successful CEO (hint: his clothing company got it’s start with an LL Cool J Music Video). My results were identical.Think about it further. Have you ever seen an ad and immediately said “Hell no, I would never buy from them” within the first three seconds? Same principle.They liked me, the product was just an afterthought. This is why a majority of businesses have commercials that have zero to do with their product. They just want you to relate to that commercial, so you can like them. Once you like them, selling is a natural process.If you lack confidence in your product, you can’t sell it. This seems obvious, but I want you to go deeper. Instead of thinking:Try:Do you see the small change in language? And how MASSIVE that change is? It’s not a pushy confidence, it’s a respected confidence. And people can smell it based on your humility.Whenever we think of sales, we immediately assume that old, greasy car salesman guy.In the real world, you sell by asking questions to reveal their burning pains, and then give them the solutions to these pains. It’s really that simple.So what does everyone do when they see music and money in the same sentence? They freak out, put it back down, and run away. I can’t sell my music…it’s too weird.Yes, you can.GASP — how dare you ask ME, artistic musical genius to charge for my work? My work is priceless and timeless.I hear you. Honestly, it does get overwhelming. We go:OrFirst off, relax. Take a step back and clear your mind. If you approach anything with a scarcity mindset, you won’t do much. Think like a child.For now, ignore:Ignore all of this — it’s just too much. If you don’t, you’ll end up pulling your hair out, getting nowhere, and giving up. This stuff comes later.For now, focus on this simple process. We do this to build confidence, test out what does or doesn’t work, and finetune our music to our audience.Once you master this, then we can slowly add and scale. It’s ok to be small.Create 1 song that you can say — this is my best.Don’t focus on song titles, song length, whether it has long intros, long bridges, or its 5 seconds too short before a chorus. That’s all irrelevant.Create your finished concept and be confident in it — that is what will sell in the end.Outside of your family, make a list of bloggers, youtubers, facebook friends, real friends (yes, the ones in real life), email contacts, former alumni, forums, who you think will like this song. 100 may seem like a lot, but trust me, if you really focused, you can find 100 people. Think about it and get creative — push your limits.1. Give it away for free to each person and ask:3. If they say no — say: “Thanks, I appreciate your honesty.” Go to the next person.4. If they say yes — ask:5. They will say yes because:They will feel like royalty because you gave them access to a VIP list, it’s non-intrusive, and it’s low commitment. People will go to great lengths to be associated with you, even if it’s something as simple as your fan list. It makes us feel socially validated. And, they’re thinking — sure, why not?6. Get the email address and add it to your list of fans. Repeat this 1 fan at a time.Just like that. You now have a sales lead, a new fan, and someone who subliminally just told youOnce you reach 100 emails, release more content to them.When releasing new content, split each week between new material and customer engagement. Do 1 post a week. So…1. Week 1 — New riff/track/idea/blog/thought/quote. Put in the subject line:“New material I’m working on. I like it — probably one of my best tracks.”This shows confidence and straight to the point. By telling them this, they will believe you first before themselves.2. Week 2 — Ask your fans what they’re working on/something funny/something thought provoking. Get personal — use this as MORE research for you to generate new content.“What are some new tracks you’re working on. Can I hear it?”You want as little transparency as possible between you and your people. The musician who ignores his fans ends up with no fans.That’s it. Simple huh?We do this for one reason: it proves to us that what we’re doing is correct and working, we have people who like it, and we have people who want to buy. This is crucial in business.Once you can build this foundation, THEN you can start growing.I can see it now, here’s my inbox after this article:YOU’RE WRONG WILLIAM — IT”S NOT THAT EASY! WHERE’S MY MONEY?!Relax. That time will come. The money will come. Your job right now is to grow. For now, start small, test, and build. Selling comes later. You want to crawl before you can walk.The hardest part isn’t following these steps. The hardest part is maintaining the discipline to follow through. It’s your mind that halts any progress out of fear because any momentum is new and the brain doesn’t like new.The best part is that it’s something you can do right now and the possibilities are endless. Have fun.Music Business Nerd at How To Be A Music Success(.)comThis is a collections for articles about business including startups, business developments, and management. Managed by 

Folks, there are some great entrepreneurs in the tech world, and those entrepreneurs have built some great ventures that really help out. I believe that we need to support one another, and help amplify the good things that others are working on.My team and I have compiled a list of both entrepreneurs and ventures that are the real deal, in no particular order.Please note: this list is just a sampling of folks/orgs who are the real deal. Who’s missing from this list? And what platforms have made a difference in your life? Thanks!customer service rep  founder for craigslist  craigconnects.

Media inquiries please email: 

With the proliferation of tech in the media, every aspiring individual sees tech as where it’s at. And it’s true, there’s money, fame  success if you make it. And why the hell won’t you?Jumping into this, if you’ve got the technical skills is easy. Get an idea, build a (minimum lovable/viable product)  get to validating it. But what about those without technical skills? How on earth do you get started? Well this blog post is for you.So you’ve got an app or web idea that you wanna pursue….I’ve had the opportunity of hearing from lots of you  the ideas you’ve come up with. Honestly after a while, it started to get repetitive. I largely found that most ideas fell into three categoriesFrom what I’ve learnt so far in this world. You can never outright dismiss an idea, especially because it’s all about execution. But to be fair, your chances with the above will be low.Unsurprising the biggest mobile apps are social apps, but with huge potential rewards come huge execution risk. Why? Social apps have two main obstacles that have to be overcome.When acquiring users for a social app, you don’t have to just acquire a user (if that wasnt hard enough), you need their friends as well. It’s extremely stressful for a user to port their social graph onto yet another app so unless you’re doing an app which does it 10x or 100x better than your competitor, how likely is it that a user will jump to your platform  ask their friends along?But before you even get to acquiring users. Lets imagine you’re building an Instagram clone, what will a single user with no friends do on the app?The key to apps especially on the mobile platform is that you have to add value to the user from the immediate start. If not, they’ll never open the app again  eventually it’ll get deleted. Which bring us to obstacle #2.Social apps by definition are in multiplayer mode. You help two people interact with each other in some way. But what happens when your user has no friends on your platform yet? Yet you need to keep them coming back  eventually inviting their friends.You solve this by having a single player mode. A popular app, Instagram, did exactly this. Instagram started out as a platform before the platform. Instagram when it started simply let you upload a picture, add a filter  post it other social apps like Facebook, Tumblr  Twitter.People would see these pictures, want those filters  ask their friends what app they used. Then they’d get the app themselves. Once Instagram acquired a sizable user base they then pivoted to being a social platform in off themselves.Another common idea which I mentioned earlier was Apps of already Existing Social Features (FB, Instagram Clone) but with one additional feature that they think is missing from the original.A good example of this is Mindie. Mindie did other things but their most compelling use case was that it allowed you to record Snapchats with music from your phone. Snapchat in February decided to revoke their access  in the next week launched the ability for you to record snapchats with music.You really want to avoid this kind of scenario. When coming up with ideas, it’s essential to think outside the box. This will also help loads when trying to attract talented individuals to come  work with you in order to turn your idea into a reality. Read So you’ve got an idea but you’re the product / business guy. You’ve tried coding but you think it isn’t for you. What’s next?Your next goal is to develop a prototype that conveys your idea behind the product well enough so that you can show it to others, gain good feedback  maybe even convince them to work with you on it.If you explain an idea simply by talking, no matter how good you are, odds are, the person won’t fully understand what your describing. However, add a few sketches or a prototype  then they’ll really get it. In this day and age, it’s so easy to do (without knowing how to code) there’s no excuse not to have one.Here’s a simple three step processI myself am still learning about how best to gain feedback  validate my ideas. Dan shipper wrote an So you’ve validated your idea. People want what you wanna build, what next? You’ve got to find some technical talent….This advice will be targeted at university students.First, hit up your friends. Have no friends that code?If you check online, or on Your best bet is looking for people in your university’s Computer Science Department or at Coders get business people trying to convince them to join their team on a regular basis. You’ve got to stand out  show you have an appreciation for their skills, the time  passion it takes to build things.I personally lose interest once I hear this  almost every person in tech is tired of hearing this. Why? Because we know the insane amount of effort it take to build anything. The idea is 1%, execution is the other 99%. No one will steal it because they won’t care enough. They have their own ideas they are trying to build. If they did, they would simply join you in building the app.The second issue with NDA’s is how in the world do you plan on getting feedback if everyone you tell has to be willing to sign an NDA. With NDA’s, it shows you’re building a product in isolation of feedback which is disastrous.Hope this helps you get started on your idea. The name of the game is persistence. It ain’t easy but even if you fail, you will learn a ton just by going through the process  you’ll be an incredibly valuable hire to early / mid stage startups. If you have anymore questions, feel free to hit me up on On a motivational note - There have been successful companies by non-technical founders, you can find some of their stories at iOS  Web Dev | Design. Hack. Sleep. Iterate. | Co-Founder 

When you think about food at its most fundamental level, it has always been about one main thing — our bodies. Feeding them, nourishing them, providing them with energy. Then, as our species evolved, food did, too. It started to become about more than just our muscles, organs, and bones — it also became about our souls. Taste, comfort, pleasure. Even boredom, stress, and fear.Food is one of the most basic necessities and simple satisfactions of humanity, and for that, we like to think of it as primal, natural — of the earth. But food has always indisputably been about something else, too: technology. Thinking about food and technology together might conjure post-apocalyptic images of some barren, soulless, sci-fi era, devoid of flavor and farming, sunshine and love, where mankind subsists solely on artificial space food. We can hark back to “the early days,” before mass production and GMO crops and Cheetohs, but we can’t deny the role of technology from the very beginning. It is engrained in our edible evolution.Just think about it. First, there was fire: the subtle nuances that the smoke and char of an open flame adds to a piece of meat. Then, there was ice: a cool glass of water, a cube in your whiskey. Then, there were ovens: the warm wafts of rosemary, garlic, thyme, and roast chicken, drifting out of an open metal door. Think about mixing cookie dough with your grandmother as a little girl with those old-school electric hand mixers, and then think about the cold jug of milk that you’d pull out of the refrigerator and pour into two, tall glasses — one for you, one for her — once the kitchen timer told you they were were done. Think about how many times the microwave has saved your ass. Think about where you’d be without your teakettle, your coffee pot, your French press:Think about life without a fork or spoon. Like food, technology has served a simple function (to feed us), and like food, technology has given us pleasures we would never have known without it. We have fire to thank for barbecue. We have the oven to thank for casserole. And pie. Sure, we don’t need cupcake vending machines or those twirling, battery-operated, spaghetti forks — and not everyone should shell out a few Benjamins on a Vitamix — but thanks to technology, we do have milkshakes. And waffles. Toast. Kraft macaroni and cheese.But how did we get here? We’ve outlined some of the great technological advances in food, from the stove to the cupcake ATM.esquire magazine // delicious ambiguitya culture mag, for and by women

Buckle up fellow design and innovation junkies we are the proverbial kids in a candy store stocked with a growing inventory of brain-exploding emerging technologies. The shelves of our candy store are overflowing with exciting new technologies including genomics, robotics, Internet of things, big data, artificial intelligence, drones, and 3D printing to name just a few. Any one of these emerging technologies alone could change the world. Resist the temptation to gorge on any one of them before sampling the full cross section of possibility. Perhaps a better metaphor after appreciating the full breadth of possibility is to feel like a kid in a sandbox. A sandbox filled with both existing and nascent technologies beckoning design and innovation junkies like us to come play together to unleash the adjacent possible. To combine and recombine technologies in new ways to unleash a steady stream of transformational business models and to change the way we solve the important social challenges of our time. You know, little system challenges like education, healthcare and government!Nascent is a beautiful and optimistic word. Emerging technology stories are about capabilities in their formative stage when they are most malleable and offer the greatest possibility frontier. Nascent technologies are the stem cells of society’s future. There’s a reason so much biology research focuses on stem cells. Stem cells are undifferentiated; they have the potential of becoming differentiated into most other kinds of cells. The hopes of human regenerative medicine lie on stem cell research and application. I’ve always been fascinated by the salamander, the highest order animal capable of regeneration. When a salamander loses or injures a body part stem cells rush to the cite enabling it to regenerate the body part. It’s amazing. Nascent technologies are undifferentiated, they have unlimited potential for regeneration to unleash incredible value. We live in a magic time when technology is no longer a limiting factor in solving the big social challenges we face. It’s on us humans to unleash our inner newts!A must-have superpower in the 21st century is the capability to connect the dots across both emerging and existing technologies. Stuart Kaufman first described the untapped potential of what could be as the “adjacent possible”. Most innovation isn’t about inventing new technology but merely the recombination of existing parts assembled in new ways to solve a problem or deliver value. Everything we need to innovate is in our sandbox and can be found at the edges between our sectors, disciplines, and technological silos. Innovation is all about exploring the adjacent possible. Author Stephen Johnson says it well: “Ideas are works of bricolage. They are, almost inevitably, networks of other ideas. We take the ideas we’ve stumbled across, and we jigger them together into some new shape. The adjacent possible is a kind of shadow future, hovering on the edges of the present state of things, a map of all the ways in which the present can reinvent itself.” (The Genius of the Tinkerer, Wall Street Journal, September 25, 2010)The most important applications for emerging technologies haven’t been imagined yet. Business model designers have an important role to play in helping us to unleash the adjacent possible. Design helps us focus on outputs rather than just inputs. Invention is great but innovation is a better way to deliver value. It isn’t an innovation until it solves a problem and value is actually delivered in the real world. Far too many conflate invention and innovation. They are different. Design is key to getting the promise of these nascent technologies out of the lab, off of the white board, out of consulting decks and in to the real world. It’s time for designers to stop trying to make the argument that design thinking and process is important. We stipulate that design is important. It’s time for designers to create the conditions and tools enabling everyone to design. It’s time to move the design conversation to a new, actionable, place. Welcome to the sandbox of adjacent possibilities. Grab your pail and shovel. Let’s design a better future together.This post is adapted from the Forward I wrote for the book, Stories about the power of stories in transformation, business model innovation, community, healthcare, education, and the citizen experience, from the Business Innovation Factory.

A Crazy Week Getting Noticed By The Tech PressFinally, Tech journalists are paying attention to what i’m doing. It reminds me of London buses. You don’t see any for ages, then three you need come at once.So, this week has definitely been the week of the tech press for me. I’ve never had so much attention of tech journalists and bloggers. This will really help move forward my show How ironic, all the attention is on a website that has yet to become an app.Let me give you the highlights of the week (last week in October 2015).First, I managed to secure interviews with leading tech journalists and bloggers in the industry. The editor-at-large at The Next Web and a leading tech journalist at TechCrunch. Full interviews will be in future episodes 375 and 378 of I asked my tech journalist guests many of the questions suggested to me such asIt’s definitely worth tuning in to these chats which go live in about three weeks on Next, Mike Gurevich and I are working on the launch of ilys : I love your story (and used to write this article). Free your creative mind to experience pure writing flow . This biggest event for our launch was appearing on the home page of Product Hunt. The story really starts to take off. I showed ilys to The Next Web and TechCrunch. TNW loved it and wrote about it almost immediately. It was amazingly quick. After getting the heads up, Mike managed to create a special offer for Now, we had about 10,000 views over the week and some great links for SEO.Next, I was given a tip to reach out to a writer and blogger for TechCrunch in New York. Within a few hours, we received an email from Bloomberg. That’s right! Bloomberg. I remember these guys from my days working on a trading floor. Ilys was perfect timing because the journalist happened to be writing about creative writing block and the tools to get into a creative flow. This is so totally ilys.There you have it! After struggling to get into big tech publications over the years, three opportunities come at once.

My generation is lucky. Those before us had decades, if not centuries, of time for their dreams to come true. Now the gap between dreaming and changing the world shrinks to years and months — at least here in Silicon Valley.Last week we mourned they say of rock stars. Tech leaders, the rock stars of our age, never claimed the same. But we’re losing more and more of the tech community too early these days. David Goldberg, Steve Appleton, not to mention Steve Jobs — all left in their 50s, as Eric Griffith says, leaving a massive empty hole in the hearts of their colleagues, their friends, their fans.Sadly, now this list is one name longer. Satoru Iwata, Nintendo veteran who brought us Wii and DS, passed away very young at the age of 55. I want to express my deepest condolences to all those whom he inspired and who loved him — first and foremost, to the family of Mr. Iwata.Sooner or later, all men must die (Game of Thrones sometimes has the point, doesn’t it?). Many still think of the tech industry as a of mob of youngsters speaking weird languages in funky offices. But like it or not — we’re facing a first generation shift in the history of modern technology. Founders of tech empires came to business very young and shaped its face. Now this face grows older — this is as much a question as it is a challenge.The truth is, tech has not fully realized the need for succession. Unlike industries with time-polished processes and structures, tech is still a bit young and messy. Sure, we’ll see these processes later, but in its own way — just like the tech world does everything in its own way.Even though the industry will mature, one thing will remain the same — it will still be personalized. Can you recall the names of the CEOs of Coca-Cola, McDonald’s, Macy’s? And now — who are the CEOs of Apple, Facebook, Tesla? The tech industry does have a face, in fact, many faces of people with bold dreams and aspirations.Konstantin Tsiolkovsky, a famous Russian scientist and the father of space exploration, had a dream. Assuming that the day would come when Earth ran out of room for its inhabitants, he envisioned re-settling people on the Moon, long before Interstellar. This dream might not be true yet, but it gave the mankind the first space ships.Less than a century later, The New Horizons robotic spacecraft delivered us breathtaking images of Pluto and its moons, icy plates, mountains and mysterious cracks. A few pictures from three billion miles away. One more step beyond impossible.Compared to computing and internet industries, investments in space are relatively small. Although, as Stephen Hawking wrote commemorating New Horizons team and flyby of Pluto, “we explore because we are human, and we want to know.” Those who consider space and robotic investments a waste might be left out of this knowledge tomorrow.Ever wish to dig into the dreams of Elon Musk? Although one of his spaceships recently crashed on his birthday, his on-ground dreams are apparently coming true. Tesla Motors purchased another 2,000 acres to increase production of batteries for electric cars.“Gigafactory” means only one thing — giga-production. Musk plans to reduce the cost of battery production, thus make cheaper electric cars and finally bringing them to mass market. It is for sure an important milestone for Tesla. What’s more important, it’s a milestone for the whole industry. If someone still thinks of electric cars as the distant future, it’s time to reconsider.Seems like Ellen Pao should not have been blamed for new Reddit policies alone. Pao’s successor and Reddit co-founder Steve Huffman made it extra clear that the time for trolling on the platform has come to its end. During an “Ask Me Anything” forum with users, Huffman outlined his intentions to grow a business out of Reddit, and before that, to clear it of abusive and offensive content.One thing is obvious in the Reddit case. The community has won. “Wild West” projects like Reddit cannot go on without managing community expectations. This business was utterly build upon people and communities, without their support and contribution it doesn’t make sense.Of course, Ellen Pao picked a hard battle — banning some users for the sake of comfort of others. But the key mistake was to underestimate the preliminary work with communities of users and employees — planning, explaining, asking for feedback and adjusting the actions. Just like elections. It is a massive piece of work, and it was basically ignored by Reddit.We at My.com know it from inside. We are working with a great community of gamers and know that it is as exciting as challenging. Community reaction, and especially a growing outrage, should not be ignored. It’s easier to stop it on the early stage. Many CEOs have surely learned this lesson looking at Pao.The world must know its heroes: fifty young scientists is a good start to know their faces and dreams.I was honored to meet one of the fifty, Ken Caldeira. (The chances of meeting future-defining people like him in Silicon Valley make me value my relocation even more.) Protecting our planet from climate change, Caldeira addresses the dangers of quick fixes to prevent devastating effect on the human population.All fifty are the faces of the future — in high-tech, space, medicine, biotech, even human relations. So not only does tech have a face, the whole future will be made up of these achievers, thinkers and dreamers.BizDev  Communications at 

What you didn’t think about when you signed the $150k loan. Don’t worry, you’ll be alright.Congrats! You’ve gotten into a top business school and you’re one step away from getting your dream job in tech. With ample opportunity in Silicon Valley — just ask the The answer: you don’t have to. With the right head on your shoulders, you can do anything that you want to do. Sky’s the limit. While the business school firehose hits the moment you step onto campus, it’s important to remember these 5 truths if you want to land a job in tech.You’ll quickly realize that most pre-IPO tech companies are not itching to send recruiters across the country. Hiring Do you only date people who willingly fall into your lap? If the answer to the question is In reality off-campus job search isn’t so different from your on-campus job hunt, you just need to dig into the rolodex (yes, call your friend from high school who you haven’t talked to in over 8 years because he actually does want to catch up) and put your ego aside. Oh, don’t forget to sign up for a LinkedIn premium account and use the alum network. You are an MBA, right?Your school’s career services counselor will be drilling this into your head on day one, and it makes perfect sense. Priorities matter when you’re trying to set yourself up for success.However, this message often backfires and delivers the wrong impression for students — that it’s more important to find a job than the If your priority is to get any job, then go for it — waste the only real opportunity that you have to chase your dreams with minimal consequences. Understand your priorities and your risk tolerance.Students from non-technical backgrounds always stress out about their inability to code. If you think every job in tech wants you to code, then you are absolutely delusional. Does Pfizer want you to be a chemical engineer/pharmacist to work in its finance department? No.What Many first-year students often say “I don’t care what role I do as long as I get to work in tech.” This is where their plans go awry. Statements like that often convey the candidate’s inability to identify his/her strength or lack of interest in the company.While you could be the most brilliant person in the candidate pool, it’s impossible to get across the finish line if you can’t get the message across. Though this process is a two way street and the company needs to make sure that a specific role sounds exciting to you, it also needs to know that you have the skills that will fit the role. Don’t work in The best way to convince a company that you can do the job is by showing them your prior work. The resume is an obvious requisite, but for those who want to stand out and find the best job in tech (product manager, I know I’m biased), build a simple portfolio like I will be the first to admit that business school is the safer alternative to trailblazing my own path. While my risk tolerance isn’t extremely high, I took a riskier approach when it came to my career and stuck to my guns. Whenever I was derailed by the elusive consulting and banking firms, I put my blinders on and inched myself closer towards tech.If you find yourself hedging your bets, you’ll soon learn from your strategy courses that straddling is never a winning strategy. Don’t sell yourself short and work in another job that you hate — Like the post? Don’t forget to share, recommend, and follow perpetually dreaming. always curious. mba Product insights and analyses; perspectives on product management

It’s been more than two months since I arrived to London to work as a Techstars Associate in the Winter 2014 cohort, in one of the best startup accelerators out there. At least once every week since, I have been asked the same question: Well, in short — two years, luck and persistence.It took me two years of events, networking, meeting people, being a part of the community, reaching out, planning far ahead, connecting the dots and seizing opportunities while being on the lookout for new ones and tackling the enormously high administrative barriers.Is that hustling? Probably, for sure, but I’d argue it’s more than that. It’s a mix of believing in yourself and what you’re doing, not letting yourself get disappointed and not giving up, staying strong and persisting. It’s about enduring, regardless of the situation.Naturally, “luck” plays a part in everything as well. I could have easily not passed one of the exams, therefore not been able to finish my degree in time and therefore not been able to come to Techstars. Even though I do not believe in an accidental luck, I do believe that if you work hard, create chances and opportunities for yourself and your environment, something is bound to happen.Even though it took me a while, it’s been an awesome experience altogether, the climb was ecstatic and hard, but the view now is even better and was totally worth it. Advice for anyone trying to get into the startup ecosystem, or basically anywhere in your quests, is definitely to approach every single person, situation and meeting as a new learning opportunity, with a clear mind and without any assumptions.Seize opportunities, ask if you can help and make yourself useful in projects surrounding you and give first. Give your best, strive to improve and get better at what you do, care passionately about details in front of you and you’ll receive something in return for sure!When I think about it, a series of events took place over the last three to four years that led from one to another. Something like a big pack of dominoes, falling one after another, opening the other door and pushing it further. I’ll briefly go through those events.It all started roughly three years ago when I started blogging for Being a blogger back then gave me the opportunity to participate in the organisation of the Having participated in the organisation of the Seedcamp event gave me the opportunity to participate in the organisation of the In the meantime, I co-founded Also, having met all those Eventually, in my quest of going abroad, I got accepted for an Erasmus Exchange Semester in Brussels for the Summer semester of 2014. But, since I knew that I would be finishing my studies after that semester and therefore make myself available for more serious roles, I wanted to refresh the connections to founders, investors and mentors I had from before.So, I went to Months passed, I moved to Brussels and got an opportunity to go to London for a Champions League game, Bayern Munich against Arsenal. It was a perfect opportunity to meet Jon again. And so I did. The coffee ended with an information that there’s a I won’t go into much detail about it, but I eventually managed to find a way. Since I was still a student at the time, After Brussels, I came back to Croatia, spent a month on the seaside, came back to Zagreb, passed all the remaining exams at the University and in the beginning of September reapplied for the Techstars London program that was starting on November 10th.On October 13th, I received the good news from Tak that I was accepted for the Associate role and that the job starts on November 10th. Sounds awesome, but I now I needed to get the paperwork done (again!) and this time it needed to work.At that time, a couple of days after, while handing in my application papers, a lady from the University informed me that, in order to go on the Erasmus Traineeship (a.k.a. Associate role at Techstars), I have to finish and defend my Master’s thesis before I leave.I did have it half written already, with a good structure and research done, but it was still a long way from completely finished. Two weeks of tackling the administrative issues for the Erasmus Traineeship, minimum sleep, constant writing, finishing and polishing my thesis and coordinating everything else followed. Eventually, I defended my thesis on Thursday, November 6th, flew to London on Saturday, November 8th and started working on Monday, November 10th.I made it.*Croatia has entered the EU and is a member state. But, there still are some countries that have restricted Croatian citizens from entering their labour market. United Kingdom, France and the Netherlands are one of those and therefore Croatian Citizens need some sort of a work permit. In the UK, Croatian Citizens need to obtain a Purple Certificate (being sponsored by the employer). More details can be found program operator 

It can be difficult to like traditional work. That’s why, this week, I connected with 3 tech millennial entrepreneurs who are making it easy to like work again. My goal: to share some tricks and tips on making it easy to like work.A couple of weeks back, I listened to Lauren Mosenthal and Eileen Carey, female millennial co-founders of Glassbreakers, a Tinder-style peer mentor matching technology platform that aims to create more women leaders in business. Last week, I spoke with Maisie Devine, a female millennial entrepreneur and the tech startup founder of Savvy, a pocket recruiter (iOS and Android) for busy, professional women who want to work for the perfect-fit company (per her preferences). With Eileen and Lauren in mind, and with Maisie’s help, I put together 3 top tips on how you can like work:Here are my top 3 tricks on getting you to your “right fit” job and to like work again:All said and done, I am confident in your ability to find the “right fit” job and like work again! Go get what you want and deserve!Home to some of the best stories on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.

President Obama’s When it comes to criminal justice reform, the inside game is just as important as the outside game. America locks up more of its population than any other country on the planet, and more of its Black population than South Africa at the height of Apartheid. Police commissioners brag about being “tough on crime” and cleaning up the streets. But the fact is that more than It doesn’t have to be this way. The way we treat people in jail and prison has a direct impact on whether or not they will reoffend. Yet over the past few decades, prison officials and the agencies that regulate them have not only failed to invest in necessities like effective educational programs and cheap phone calls; they have actively opposed programs that work.A new movement in the tech world is seeking to change that. A class of social justice-oriented companies — what I call “justice tech” startups — has emerged as a counterweight to the prison-industrial complex. The founders of these startups come from a circle of activists, former prisoners and social entrepreneurs who understand that sometimes change has to come from outside the system.One of these startups is Upon his release, Hutson decided to start a company that would cater to the incarcerated directly. Pigeonly’s customers in federal prison purchase telephone time from their commissary, which usually charges inflated rates for long-distance calls. Pigeonly uses Google Voice-style technology to change the game so that all calls are “local”.This process shaves 60 to 80 percent off the cost of calls in federal prisons. His service is soon expanding from the federal system to state prisons and jails, where savings promise to be even higher — in some jails, for instance, calling home can cost more than 18 dollars for a 15 minute phone call.Another justice tech company is The tablet service has earned the early support of reform-minded sheriffs who are eager to disrupt the cycle of people repeatedly moving in and out of jail. Inmates who take advantage of educational programming are 43% less likely to return within three years than those who do not. These sheriffs see tech-savvy educational offerings as a practical and affordable solution to recidivism.As the long-overdue movement for broad criminal justice reform continues, we cannot forget the importance of what happens, or does not happen, inside jails and prisons. We need to improve our inside game as well as our outside game to ensure jails and prisons work, and these justice tech startups can help make that future come faster.Partner, Kapor Capital. Former President  CEO, NAACP.

Snoop Dogg brought out his latest album, Because Snoop didn’t go for the traditional music outlets. Instead, he posted it on Product Hunt, a young site traditionally reserved for discovering and upvoting tech products, and This might seem like a surprising forum in which to find a world-famous artist launching a major record — but in reality it’s not. Musicians venturing into the world of tech — and vice versa — is becoming the norm. The boundary between the two industries is being slowly eroded as music goes digital and tech becomes cool.When you hear the name Linkin Park, you probably think this:You probably don’t think And they’re not the only ones. Justin Bieber led a Why the sudden rush of A-list musicians getting in on tech investments? In short, because they’ve realised there’s a whole load of money to be made. Bono’s private equity firm Pick up any popular magazine from the nearest newsstand and you’re as likely to see a tech entrepreneur gracing the front cover as you are a musician. They’re Why have today’s entrepreneurs become celebrities? Gadi Shamia, president of Bizzy.com, puts it pretty well:There was a time when a role like Director of Creative Innovation would be filled by someone with a PhD in Creative Innovation. These days? His motivation for this, and for diving headfirst into the world of tech in general?And he’s not the only one who’s keen to get his hands dirty in the world of tech.Dr. Dre had been making music for a living for 14 years before he co-founded Beats Electronics. 8 years later, he sold the company to Apple for $3BN, in what is to date their largest ever acquisition.He’s an incredibly obvious example of a musician becoming a tech pioneer. But it’s not just in founding companies that musicians are leading the way in tech.Take Snoop Dogg. He’d been a keen user of Product Hunt for a while before he launched Or, if you’re Dr. Dre, just build the product from scratch.The cross-pollination between the worlds of music and tech makes complete sense, as the two industries get more and more similar. Both are fundamentally creative; both attract innovators; both have a famously high failure rate, but offer the tantalising promise of huge riches and overnight stardom. The only question is when it will swing the other way — when will Ev Williams get around to releasing that album he’s been planning. It can’t be long now.Founder of Words about music

Eric Schmidt of Alphabet — formerly known as Google — gave a presentation at From the time Google “left” China back in 2010 till present, Google has maintained a workforce of 500 employees to serve the area of Greater China including the territories of Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Google’s servers in Hong Kong continue to serve Chinese users.Schmidt says that Google still hopes to provide more comprehensive services to the Chinese and that’s why Google continues to communicate with the Chinese government.Some Alphabet businesses will return to China much earlier than others, according to the Wall Street Journal. Google Play Store is expected to return to China faster than even Google Search or Youtube. It is rumored some users are currently able to load Google Maps in China, AllChinaTech attempted to confirm this but has had no such luck.Schmidt talked highly of DJI, the Chinese Drone company. He said that the Chinese have invented something really useful for the world with drone technology and DJI.He added that the sky is the only area where there’s no traffic jams. City infrastructure in Asia can’t keep up with the speed of urbanization. Traffic problems also pose a challenge elsewhere in the world. Schmidt says that’s why using automated products will eventually take over manual deliveries leading into the future.Google are developing automated products themselves including self driving cars, Project Loon to provide free wifi for emerging markets and their own drone technology. Many things will become automated including drones. Schmidt says computers do a better job at visual recognition than humans do and will replace humans in this capacity eventually. Google’s self driving car is being tested on roads and in the future might even have the capability to fly.Google and other large tech companies are investing in machine learning. The technology will allow computers to be more knowledgeable than humans. Google are now leading this trend and refer to it with the use of another term, “deep learning”.Schmidt said than when people use Google Translate, the mechanism behind the screen isn’t a machine searching through a dictionary, deep learning technology is employed instead, to solve translation tasks by algorithm. Deep Learning understands the meaning of words and the structure of a sentence so that it can automatically integrate and translate meaning into other languages.Google has tested it internally, it can fulfill the basic work of an interpreter while people talk over the phone. The technology will likely be ready in five to 10 years. In about 15 to 20 years, computers will have the same cognitive capacity as humans do.A century ago, an education revolution in the U.S. gave Americans free high school education. To Schmidt, if China wants to compete with America, and to be creative, the country needs to provide better services and the Chinese need to be able to think more freely. Ultimately, they need to have a better education framework.Schmidt says Globalization has created an environment for people to learn in different ways and they don’t need to study alone anymore. The biggest achievement for globalization in the past 20 years is two billion people having roared to the middle classes from underprivileged backgrounds. China has more chances to develop than the USA.Schmidt says the iPhone has been very successful in China and it’s the most successful of Apple’s products.It’s hard to say which will lead the future, because Apple’s rival smartphone makers Xiaomi and Huawei are surpassing Apple in China. Every Chinese smartphone company has its own differentiated advantage, which has lead to a drop in the price of smartphones. Presently Huawei occupies the No. 1 spot in terms of smartphone shipments for the last quarter in the Chinese market.From this story, Tech-News-In-China officially became a part of You will find more news in Go China!Go TNiC!Go AllChinaTech!Tech-News-In-China brings you the most interesting tech stories and interesting tech products from China. Why not follow news from this interesting country?Here have plenty tech stories from China, that mystery country. Say Nihao(你好) Say Hi! : )

The Mark Cuban added to the hysteria when he published Jeez, that sounds bad. Like As we explore Mark’s claims, we’ll (On Angel investors Mark says:He goes on to say that most of them will fail and that the lack of liquidity will hurt:Basically, when the market shits the bed, you won’t be able to sell your stock to anyone. Those 225,000 angel investors will likely lose everything they’ve invested.So let’s look at the absolute worst case scenario: Every startup in the US turns out to be complete garbage. All valuations drop to zero tomorrow. Imagine the horror:So what kinds of numbers are we talking here? But what about our 225,000 angel investors? We’ll pretend for a moment that every single one of them pumped $1,000,000 into various startups. Their losses would represent $225 billion of real, actual money.In short: Between 2000 and 2002, the NASDAQ I’m not sure if there’s much more to say at this point. We’ve been extremely generous to Mark’s point of view, and we can clearly see that the current tech bubbleThis techie wan’t formally trained in economics or finance. But I’ve long had an interest in algorithmic trading and stocks. I’ve built programs that traded penny stocks and One conclusion I’ve come to on bubbles:Once “dumb money” is able to participate in a bubble, it can inflate to the point where it puts the economy as a whole at risk. Until then, its impacts are limited to the small set of specialized investors who have access to that market.The bitcoin bubble of 2013/2014 had no lasting effects on the economy, because there was no (or very little) “dumb money”.In 2008, your grandma’s pension fund was buying up CDOs or funding a hedgefund that would trade them on her behalf. Time to be scared.In 2000, your grandma’s pension fund was buying every stock that IPOed. Hell, your grandma might have even opened up a day-trading account.The point here is that it takes a Startups ‘n Tech

When the 114th Congress is seated in January, Silicon Valley will look to Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah to either promote its agenda or thwart it. Hatch is head of the Republican High-Tech Task Force and (in his seventh term) is the longest-serving Senator of the soon-to-be majority party. So no one is better placed to assess the chances that the new Congress might blow past the current gridlock that saw almost no advancement on tech issues. On the day after President Obama’s executive order on immigration, Senator Hatch was still steaming when he spoke by phone to To have an effective bill you have to include mandatory fee-shifting [meaning that if a patent troll loses a case, it must pay legal fees], heightened discovery standards, and a mechanism to enable recovery of fees against shell companies. It won’t work without having all of those provisions in.We’re hoping we can tip the scales. It’s inexcusable to have these patent trolls that bring this litigation against small companies, let alone big companies, and they do it with shell corporations—if they lose, they never have to pay anything, anyway. It costs up to two million bucks to defend one of these things. There is so much momentum behind this bill. Obama claims that he wants it and he wants a win in this. I think we can give it to him but it’s going to be hard.Not in these areas. Frankly, we could have used Obama really stepping in and fighting for [the patent troll reform] but he didn’t.I want to give credit to Chris Coons and Dean Heller who are with me on this. The LEADS Act begins a discussion on the complex and important issue surrounding data privacy in the digital age. The confidentiality of business data and electronic communications and their protection from arbitrary government seizure are really of the upmost importance. In order for our U.S. companies to achieve their full potential, for our nation to maintain its position at the pinnacle of innovation and competitiveness, our data business records and other electronic information just have to be protected from arbitrary government intrusion. I mean we just have to. The LEADS Act is a must-pass bill next congress. It would promote trust in U.S. IT technologies worldwide and it would enable law enforcement to fulfill its public safety mission. I don’t see how anybody could be against it.We’d have to see about that. We’ve got to be careful that we don’t go too far with the law so that it stifles innovation or that it stifles law enforcement or that it stifles the personal privacy rights of people.The last thing we need, in my opinion, is the government telling ISPs how to carve up bandwidth. I’m sure Congress will act if [the FCC] regulates the Internet. There is no question about that.Many of my Democrat colleagues have never met a merger that they actually liked. My belief is that government intervention risks harming consumers and innovations by protecting competitors from market forces. Consumers benefit when the government allows free markets to allocate resources. There is nothing that can tie things up for decades like anti-trust litigation.I think so. It’s in the tax expenditure package. I think if we could make it permanent we would incentivize investment in research and development. Over the long haul it actually pays off to do it.If I had my way, we would build up NIH to be much larger than it is. We get a pretty good bang for the buck out of NIH. There are so many things we need to do. We need to lower the corporate tax rates. At thirty-five percent our tax rate is the highest in the developed world and it’s a chokehold on the economy. If we got that down, we would keep our companies here and they’d be happy to stay here. I’d like to get the corporate tax rate down to no more than twenty-five percent. I’d prefer it to be lower than that.They are. And they would do better at home and they would bring that money home if they knew that they weren’t going to be gouged every time they turn around.The President demonstrated that his priorities are polarization and partisanship, not working across the aisle to get things done. Frankly, he doesn’t have the authority to do that. He has said he’s not a king or an emperor and yet he turns around and does this. It makes [visa reform] even more difficult, because now everybody’s mad. The President’s executive order cannot provide a permanent solution to our country’s inadequate and outdated employment-based immigration laws. But I’m going to work really hard on getting a good immigration bill that covers the whole area. We should start with areas of widespread agreement — like high-skilled immigration. The I-Squared Act, which is a bipartisan immigration innovation act, addresses most if not all of the tech industry’s immigration needs. We need to increase the H1-B visas. Currently the cap is 85,000 a year. This year alone we had 172,500 submissions. That means American companies were unable to hire nearly 90,000 high-skilled workers that we’ve educated. I mean, talk about stupidity!I was the longest-serving Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee before I left a couple of years ago. I lived through all the hearings, all of the top materials, all of the information about the FISA Court and how it worked and functioned. People who want to lessen those powers are really doing this country a great disservice because we are going have more terrorism acts. We’ve got to be on top of them the best way we can and that means doing what the original act says we should do. [The government does] collect data, metadata, but they do not eavesdrop until they get a warrant to do so and until they have the appropriate legal authority. But without the metadata collection we will not have the ability to try and catch these people.We Can you imagine? There are twenty-two people who actually look at the data today under the current law. And [the President’s] idea was to give it to the various telecom companies. There’s over 125 of those companies and thousands of employees who have access to this sensitive data. Now how is that protecting our privacy? It isn’t.Yeah but it would be a hell of a lot more than 22 top cleared science experts. The people who make these arguments are playing politics instead of worrying about our national security interests. There are at least two or more countries that have the capacity to interfere with our national infrastructure. When are we going to wake up and realize we’ve got to fight these kinds of things with every tool at our disposal? I don’t know anybody who wouldn’t give up some privacy to be able to protect themselves from these evil people if they really understood the facts.No, unfortunately I don’t know of any other way of doing it and I’ve looked at every other possible way you could do it. The simple answer is to allow this current system to work because it’s carefully monitored, you’ve got really careful leaders handling it, you’ve got all kinds of hedges to prevent any disclosures and leaks. You’ve got the courts involved. I happen to know the judges that have been on the FISA court and they think the system is a pretty good system, most of them. You’ve got an awful lot of members of Congress who have been on the intelligence committees who understand these matters and do not want to risk the health and safety of the American people. These important issues are not as simple as some tried to make it out with this last bill.Free markets determine the specifics of how broadband networks are developed. These networks ease the process of expanding the wireless spectrum so I think we should be doing everything in our power to encourage that. We should be using the limited resources of the Universal Service Fund to bring broadband to parts of the country to people who don’t have access now. The last thing I want is anybody interfering with all of the high tech approaches that we have today.Well I hope the patent troll bill is. But if the trial lawyers come in with their full weight we’re going to have a rough time getting it done.Well, thanks for calling. Now, don’t screw me!I’m just kidding. Hang in there.Follow Backchannel: I’m starting a tech hub at Medium.Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

Part 4 coming soon…Follow me for updates Check it out on Designer studying HCI 

Are we in a tech bubble right now — the kind of overvalued market that led to the famous Dot-Com Bust of 2000 or the smaller but significant bust that coincided with the global financial crisis of 2007–8? I worked through both of those events from within the tech startup industry so I’m going to back myself and say I know for sure: it depends.There are many pundits trying to argue the case for or against using data, statistics, historical graphs and chartist patterns and all that is interesting to read, but it entirely misses the point of what creates a bubble and what causes it to collapse so suddenly and spectacularly.Flashback with me to the third quarter of 1997: I’d accepted a job offer to be the second hire at Yahoo! Australia  NZ, at that stage still a wholly owned entity of Yahoo! Inc.I agreed to a generous share option grant as part of my compensation and the hardcopy paperwork took a week to arrive by secure mail from head office. I was sitting out a brief bit of gardening leave caused by a non-compete clause enforced by my former employer and couldn’t start work at Yahoo! until a month later.Immediately after I’d accepted my employment offer Yahoo! had split its stock 2:1. Within a few days the price was right back at the pre-split price.Yahoo! had doubled its market cap in a week.If my share options had been granted at the post-split price, I was very happy, but if they’d been granted at the pre-split price, that I was now sitting on a paper fortune. And I hadn’t done a lick of work for the company yet.That kind of thing doesn’t happen when your company is valued on traditional metrics, obviously.At the time, Yahoo! was one of the hottest stocks in the history of hot stocks, finishing the first day on the NASDAQ a year before at USD33.00 — up 270 percent from the IPO price — after peaking at USD43.00 for the day. It went on a rocket ride that failed to quit for almost a decade, one of a small group of companies blessed as the flag-bearers of a new generation of tech companies powered by the internet, with the theoretical ability to generate revenue from a global business and consumer market at a sales cost theoretically approaching zero.The rocket ride continued. When the proceeds of the sale of my first tranche of share options landed in my humble little St George cheque account, I got a call from my branch manager to check whether I’d been expecting nearly a million dollars AUD to arrive in a cheque account that hadn’t held more than $5,000 before.I thanked him, assured him I wasn’t laundering drug money, and ran straight down to my branch, asked the teller to print out a statement, laminated it and hung it on the bedroom wall of our humble little rented flat.In January 1999, Yahoo! acquired another tech sector darling Geocities for USD4.58 billion in an all-stock transaction, and then paid USD5.7 billion in Yahoo! stock for Mark Cuban’s Broadcast.com.I clearly remember the week it became a bubble.At the beginning of the week, I was working for a global online media empire with a vast lead in online audience share, more than a billion dollars in cash and we’d never reported a loss-making quarter in our history.At the end of that same week, I was working for one of the most over-valued NASDAQ-listed companies in history and the share price was plummeting down.It didn’t matter that our quarterly profits continued, or that our pile of cash in the bank continued to grow. The set of metrics being chosen to value our business had changed and the bears were now in control.It happened again in 2008 in less spectacular fashion, as the impact of the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage market spread through the economy.For a few years the tech sector had been fuelled by venture funds driving the new darlings — social networks — to grow reach and engagement as fast as possible and never mind about finding revenue, we could figure that out later.I was working for a venture-funded mobile social media network in the US at the time, and one day we were meant to be growing fast, and forget about the revenue plans until next year.The next week the sub-prime fallout had wiped out future capital raising prospects for the venture funds and the message had changed to “find revenue, and find it NOW!”We were still the same company, with the same metrics, but the bears had pushed the bulls out of the wheelhouse and were desperately trying to wheel us around hard-to-starboard. We capsized and sank before we’d even righted ourselves.Then, as now, I was reminded of the first meeting I had with Paul Manka and “But first,” Paul said, “I need to explain to you how the stock market works.”He drew an X and Y axis on the whiteboard and a diagonal line starting at zero and heading upwards and to the right. I thought he was going to draw some complex equation next, but he didn’t.“Whatever anybody tells you about their methodology for valuing stocks, it’s all post-decision justification for the buying and selling decisions they’ve already made, driven by one of these two emotions,” he said.“A share market is a bunch of people primarily driven by either greed, or fear. When enough of them flip from greed to fear as their motivation, you can wave any kind of valuation or performance metrics in their face and they’ll just bowl you over as they run for the fire escape.”So do we have a tech bubble in 2015? Not yet. But it’ll be the mob — not the analysts — who decide when it is.Growth at 

This post about women in tech has been sitting in my drafts, not even close to half-finished, for more than three years. It’s one of the many reasons I have an overwhelming feeling I’ve failed the tech community (admittedly in a small way) through my own lack of initiative, and that stinks.I’ve missed innumerable opportunities to help change the prevailing “bad behavior” regarding women in technology in our community. Every time a woman (or I) complained about a man “stealing” an idea and getting the credit, every time I’ve been interrupted in a conversation and didn’t say anything, every person I should have coached on soft skills and didn’t. They’re all missed opportunities for improving the situation for women in tech that I passed up. As a manager and someone who loves this industry, I So yeah- I’m not proud of the way I shirked my duty, and I’m sorry. But I want the generation behind me to know how I fucked up so they can do more for the community than I have so far… and without spending half their career learning the same lessons first.Aside from just running out of patience, a couple of experiences I’ve had in the past week are so very indicative of what I believe to be core challenges in making measurable progress in this effort. I think it’s worth writing about.I worked at Twitter — a company that values diversity and has a Here’s the thing about these efforts. Just like voluntary training for managers, the people who are already interested in supporting “the cause”, male or female, are already involved. 30 women attended that initial meeting last week. There were zero men. Zero! That’s a pretty insulated way to approach something as huge as changing the culture of such a male-dominated industry. I’m not saying that there aren’t men at the company who care and would participate- I know there are, and I would love to see them there. But they’re not the Target Audience for these efforts.Men do participate in Twitter’s group, but the same applies. The men (and a couple of women, let’s be honest) who struggle with treating women with the same level of respect as men are not the ones who engage in those discussions in a meaningful way. Most of these people feel like their behavior is appropriate and that discussions about women in technology don’t apply to them. Want to make a womeng group really effective? Make discussion and training tailored to your workplace mandatory for everyone in the company, starting with the managers. There are many I was a member of a panel (2 women, 2 men) about building SRE teams at a conference last week. Some brave soul asked something like, “The ratio of men to women in SWE functions seems to be improving, but SRE is still lagging behind. Why do you think that is? What can we do about it?”.Bless your heart, whoever you are. Thank you for asking those questions.Both myself and the other woman on the panel gave some honest, but kind of well-rehearsed answers, and then a strange thing happened: one of the men answered too! Unfortunately, his response only strengthened the opinion that men don’t understand the fundamental issues. But to those people who said afterward, “he should have just kept his mouth shut. lololol.”, I disagree. I guarantee his remarks not only offended the women in the audience (of which there were few), but many of the men as well. It sparked more conversation than anything else from that panel, and I say it’s a great thing it happened.What I need to apologize for is not immediately correcting the panelist, who I believe in his heart of hearts was trying to help. I just sat there, too shocked to say anything. Hours later, I realized that that situation was the best illustration of the problem that we could have ever hoped to have. And I failed everyone in that room by not having the guts and confidence to point it out and to continue the conversation right then and there. It’s a very typical scenario for many women in our field.I’m seriously disappointed in myself. For keeping my trap shut instead of defending myself. For letting my career suffer because I was too intimidated. For not doing more to pave the way for women who are just starting out in this field. For being too lazy with my time  energy to deliver tough messages to people who actually needed to hear it. That’s a lot of guilt to carry around, so I’m writing this in the hopes of preventing that experience for at least one woman entering the technical world. Because it sucks.During at least 80% of my evening commutes, I’m kicking myself about one or more of these. This is the advice I wish I could have given the ‘me’ of 15 years ago and what I should have been telling everyone during my career. But since time travel is still a couple of years away (!), I’ll have to settle for “being the change I want to see” now.Whether you’re a man or a woman, get involved in the discussion. We all want this issue to be a thing of the past, and the only way that’ll happen is if things actually change. If your company has a diversity program, participate. If it doesn’t, there are discussions happening on social media and in meet-ups across the country. Give it a chance before you dismiss it as “not applicable”. The issues apply to and affect everyone in our industry. Spending an hour a month is a small price to pay for fixing what ails us.It’s okay to be disappointed in yourself or in someone else. Just don’t make excuses. I catch myself doing this a few times a day:“Oh, he means well- he “He was just so excited he “He was so nervous about his presentation that he Sound familiar? Yep. I’ve done myself and everyone else in the organization a disservice by keeping these thoughts to myself. The majority of people will become defensive, even if you’re a master at providing constructive feedback. But those people Muster up the confidence to defend your position, idea, self. The more often you do it, the more lessons you learn about communicating, about people and about yourself. Communicating thoughts  feelings isn’t exactly the forté of the tech world, nor is listening to and accepting someone else’s position. If you’re uncomfortable, ask someone who has background with the organization and whom you trust for advice. It’s a fine line, and there are risks to voicing your opinion. But those should be acceptable risks. If it turns out to hurt your career, you should really consider whether the organization is right for you.There’s a lot of insecurity in our industry. That can breed misplaced aggression, taking credit for someone else’s work, being the loudest in the room, and many of the behaviors mentioned in this post. Getting defensive or taking it personally when it happens to you won’t improve matters, trust me. Do whatever you need to do to distance your personal stake from the situation — take 10 deep breaths, yell into a pillow, whatever. Just do it quickly, and provide timely feedback.Thanks for reading all the way to the end. If I work with you  you see me not doing any of the things above, kick me. Or maybe just send me an IM to call me out. I need the help. ☺Currently 

I am a Senior Strategist atThe desire to leave this world better than I found it has always been a central part of who I am. In that sense, being queer has shaped my career in two ways. First, it has been a core piece of the motivation behind the political activism that is the backbone of my career path. Getting stared at for holding hands with my partner definitely makes me want to dig my high heels in and fight injustice. Secondly, being queer has given me a perspective on privilege and oppression that has taught me to be more conscientious of language, assumptions and inclusivity, both on digital platforms as well as in the workplace.In my first interview. Since I’m femme, often people don’t immediately assume that I am queer. Instead, it just came up as the conversation turned to campaign strategies around the then-upcoming Supreme Court decision that struck down Prop 8 and DOMA. The ruling was a great campaigning moment, but it also meant winning the freedom to marry my amazing partner (now fiancee). I am thankful to live in a time and place where I didn’t feel like I needed to hide that, so I didn’t. It’s simply always been out in the open.My (future) boss and I were reviewing interesting campaigns that could be launched on Causes.com related to topical news issues. This was in spring of 2013, so I was sharing some potential campaigns that could respond to the Supreme Court rulings on DOMA and California’s Prop 8. It was a while ago now, but I mentioned something along the lines of how bizarre it was that a such small group of individuals was about to make a decision that would so significantly affect my own future.Make no mistake about it: despite some major recent victories we still live in a time when homophobia is a dangerous reality that queer people have to face, often on a daily basis. LGBT people can still be fired or evicted for their sexuality or gender identity in 29 states. Many LGBT people may chose to not take on that risk to their safety or job security by being out at work (at least for those of us who have that choice and posses privileges that accompany ‘passing’ within common gender norms). It’s hard not to internalize the repercussions of that reality. However, for those who do have the safety and support of an inclusive workplace, being out can be an important flag to fly. It signals that LGBT people shouldn’t have to hide their identities to feel safe and thrive at work. It further amplifies the fact that the lack of workplace discrimination protections in the U.S. is absurd and harmful.I’m out at work simply because I’m out pretty much all the time. It’s a core piece of my identity, and I’m proud of it. Being queer is a part of who I am, but it also Also, I believe that being out at work can help LGBT folks considering joining the tech industry know that they won’t be ‘alone’ in the sector. We’re here, we’re queer, we’re hiring!It’s been great. I get to come to work each day with an inclusive, diverse and talented group of people who are committed to using technology to scale social change and empowerment. When I started a staff LGBTQ and allies group at Brigade, nearly half the company joined. When my partner proposed, my colleagues organized a big lunch outing to celebrate the news. Working with an amazing team matters.I also like being able to support LGBTQ folks around the world who are using technology to scale bold and courageous grassroots efforts in places that are openlyLast but not least, connecting with groups like Lesbians Who Tech has been key. I am inspired by the brilliance and resilience of other queer women in tech. To me, the challenges of being a woman in tech are more noticeable than my experience as a queer person in tech. LWT has been a great support and motivator, especially as I was first navigating the transition from nonprofit life to the tech sector.I am a big fan a cohort hiring. Last year, Brigade hosted an event called #StartupDiversity to focus on specific actionable steps smaller, younger startups could use to increase diversity early in a company’s history. I like to focus on real action over words, and used an exercise to collect input from attendees on what they were going to take away with them and put into immediate use.Our team since has made strong efforts to engage in cohort hiring practices. I definitely suggest putting a diverse representation of your company on your hiring teams! It can help candidates from diverse backgrounds feel more comfortable and succeed in the interview process more readily. For example, in 1:1 conversations with female candidates, women will often ask other women about gender diversity at the office whereas they might feel intimidated to broach the subject with others. I like when hiring teams create that space for candidates to speak their mind comfortably.One of our values at Brigade is to #ownit, and this is especially true when it comes to diversity. It should not only be on women, queers, and people of color to move the ball on diversity initiatives. That commitment has to come from the whole company. Making sure folks from more privileged backgrounds know that they are a vital part of the solution is key for getting results.Trainings on hidden bias are spiking in the industry and have enormous potential to eliminate those evaluative cracks that can drain away the fairness of reviews of diverse candidates and workers. The trainings are particularly effective because they are framed in a way that replaces less-productive emotions of blame or guilt with strategies to identify and mitigate assumptions.I think tech is a remarkably curious and solution-oriented culture, but we all need to be more disciplined about not letting inclusivity shift to the bottom of the priority list. Inclusivity is absolutely vital to success. I think the industry would benefit from learning about LGBT history and culture, especially here in San Francisco. Companies should support tech workers in being good colleagues Sharing stories, providing actionable ways for everyone to improve LGBTQ+ inclusivity in tech, and giving guidance to navigate the industry as a queer employee.

It has been an incredibly busy year for tech media publications. May alone has been quite the month.AOL, which owns numerous media properties including The Huffington Post and TechCrunch, was acquired by Verizon earlier this month for $4.4 billion.Just last week Recode, founded by Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher both former journalist of the Wall Street Journal, was acquired by Vox Media. Vox is also the parent company of The Verge, another tech media property. The most recent round of funding raised puts Vox at a valuation of $400 million (The same day, To say tech media landscape has changed would be a gross understatement.I wanted to dig deep to see how each of these media companies matchup. After gathering data on 100,000 articles across 12 media channels I put together this infographic.Startup  Venture Capital Enthusiast. Past Co-founder of 3DLT a marketplace for 3D printed products. Follow me All things #startup, venture capital,  #technology. Content of all lengths and variations. Currently looking for writers. Email me: 

Show a designer a beautiful piece of work and 9 times out of 10, their first question will likely be, “How was it made?”. In other words, what software and what techniques were used to create the final product? The tendency to inquire as to the means of production is only natural and all too common. Perhaps there’s no problem with this production-centric mindset. It’s certainly easier to describe a project as “created with Photoshop and Illustrator,” than to explain one’s reasoning behind color choices, layout, typography, and all the design decisions and iterations that lead to the final product. Then again, perhaps the tendency to focus on tools  technology first has a detrimental effect on how we think about design and on the quality of what we create.Perusing some of the day’s popular design portfolio networks provides ample evidence of our obsession with tools  tech. Dribbblers often comment to each other with questions about which software they used. Behance even has a built-in “Tools Used” tagging system that puts the production method front and center with the project description. In my own experience, in both the classroom and the studio, designers and design students are constantly asking one another how they created this, that, and the other visual effect.All this talk about the tools available might be causing us some problems. Instead of getting to the task at hand, that of creating, we might stop and ask ourselves questions like, “Should I learn Photoshop or Sketch? Or both?” We start to think that great design work can’t be created without the best tools. We become anxious and stressed about our tech stacks and toolkits, and instead of focusing on creating, we switch things up, derail work-in-progress, start over, and throw out hours’ worth of iterations. Rather than focusing on what’s in front of us, our minds wander to distant and unfamiliar alternatives, the promises of which blind us to our own experience. It’s 2015 and, seriously, just about anyone can create an exciting new design software… that turns out to be rather useless and flushes hours of time and gigabytes of data down the toilet. Even big dogs like Adobe are failing to deliver actual improvements with their newest tech.What if we looked at design and technology from a different vantage point? How might a design-centric perspective benefit us?Good design makes people’s lives better. Good design doesn’t care whether it’s made of pixels or dots, or what its file extension is. Good design uses technology to proliferate itself, and this has always been the case.The printing press didn’t pre-date the letterform. People created written language to communicate more easily, and the technology for printing evolved to suit that need. The camera was invented long before Photoshop, and Photoshop only came along to make good photography easier to produce. Digital printers are faster and more accurate that silkscreens, but neither can be trusted to make poorly designed print work look good.Keyboard shortcuts are a lot easier to learn than design principles. I’ve been at this design thing for long enough to say with confidence that it’s far easier to learn how to use a tool than it is to learn how to design something well. With that, I would urge any designer to focus not on the tools and technology that proliferate the work, but rather to focus on making the thing, and making it damn good.Designer at Barbershop I/OThoughts and stories from BDW, a 50 week graduate program dedicated to re:designing, re:imagining and re:working the digital world.

Please engage with the writers! Post your private or public questions and comments on specific sections of a story using Medium’s great To submit a story:Contact Don at Sr Product Manager Stories and thoughts from minorities working in tech. Submit yours today.

COUPLE Nico and Terry Tuason’s two-year-old child loves to play on the iPad. This prompted them to look for educational games but found only English titles meant for children in other countries, none for the Philippines.Nico, an independent game developer, and Terry decided to make one for Filipino children. The two built Halina’t Bumasa, a startup that will create educational apps to promote early literacy and love for Filipino culture, and pitched it to IdeaSpace, the startup incubator and accelerator of the Manny V. Pangilinan group of companies.Last Friday, Halina’t Bumasa was named one of 10 startups IdeaSpace will be incubating for 2015. The couple got P500,000 in seed funding and an equivalent grant amount in incubation services to turn Halina’t Bumasa into a sustainable business.Terry said they would release the first app, which is in Filipino, in two to three months. Nico said they would sell it for between $1 to $3 since offering it for free and monetizing through ads is not an option because of privacy issues, especially that the users are children.Terry said they would also produce Bisaya, Ilonggo and other versions.Making it to the top 10 was another education-related startup by another couple: FrontLearners by Leo and Elaine De Velez. FrontLearners is a platform for “blended learning,” where lessons are supplemented by digital resources. The platform still works even in areas without an internet connection, via a Wi-Fi access point that broadcasts the resource within the local area network of a school.FrontLearners charges a per-student fee for private institutions but is free for public schools. The lessons are K-to-12 compliant, they said.Leo said the program is also their way of giving back to the country since he and his wife are “iskolar ng bayan,” having graduated from Philippine Science High School and the University of the Philippines, where tuition is subsidized by the government, and getting Department of Science and Technology grants.Leo used to work for Shell while Elaine was with Johnson and Johnson. They have retired and are working on FrontLearners, which used to be UberLessons, full time. Leo said they had to spend retirement money on it. He said the IdeaSpace funding will allow them to implement the program in more schools.The De Velezes have long been working to use technology in education, starting with the use of animated GIFs for Math lessons with math-center.com in 1998 to a portal to share lesson plans and an online review center for Philippine Science High School.The other startups that made it to the top 10 are Businessman Manuel V. Pangilinan told the other startups that didn’t make it to the final 10 not to be discouraged. “Every failure is a step toward success,” Pangilinan said.IdeaSpace co-founder Earl Valencia said the initiative is “another step to creating a Philippine economy powered by Science and Technology.”Valencia said IdeaSpace was conceptualized to solve problems of the country. In evaluating startups, he said they always ask whether there is a need, a specific technology edge for the team, and a significant market size for the product or service.IdeaSpace co-founder Marthyn Cuan said that in this year’s batch, they “front loaded a lot of the support” to startups, making the process the “equivalent to an incubation.” Each team got P50,000 to build a prototype for final judging.Valencia said that this year, IdeaSpace got more than a thousand applications. He said there were entries from 15 countries outside the Philippines.Max is a blogger and a technology columnist of a newspaper in Cebu City, Philippines. He is a co-founder of journalism startup InnoPub Media.Drafts of a retired deadline chaser

We’re sitting at the epicenter of startup culture. A place where It doesn’t feel like enough to simply say that I am smitten with the possibilities of technology and the idea of creating my own career. I give better answers: “I am going into [insert writing driven career here].” At worst I attempt to prove that I can understand code. Sometimes I explain I can’t make a career off of writing alone. It’s been fifty years since Hemingway wandered through Paris making a living off of selling prose and if you read If this seems nebulous, Employment is a very convincing counterargument to this suggestion. LinkedIn does a great job of illustrating the difficulties with marketing a liberal arts education versus that of STEM. STEM skills can more easily be described in concretions. There is a plethora of endorsement buttons for Having spaces to explain verbatim doesn’t offer much help. You can’t detail your winning qualities without sounding pompous or at least what Holden Caulfield would call a Companies demand a level of specificity certain majors just can’t offer. Without these specific skills, entering any large company is aggravating. Spotify wants an agile coach and a product analyst. Reading the actual job description offers respite — “these are certainly things I could pick up quickly” — but students wilt when looking at the necessary qualifications. We don’t have them. And we almost certainly won’t be hired and given the chance to learn.I wrote my first HTML tag around the same time I read my first poem. Both gave me the sense that I could create something completely on my own. This means a lot to a 2nd grader who is just beginning to get caught in a system where uniformity is valued over creativity. Neopets and Jack Prelutsky are comparatively small wins to True Ventures and Yale University, where I currently find myself. But what remains true is that I began creating in order to express myself and to help others. Technology is about solving problems. Technology is about building something. Writing is just the same. I went to college to learn, and I ended up prioritizing one academic passion over the other, but I chose the less limiting path.This is the point at which waxing poetic only seems to make a compelling argument for naiveté in a manner that undercuts this argument. To be clear, it isn’t easy and much of the time it won’t be successful. But failure is an opportunity to get better. Idealism can be unhealthy but passion shouldn’t be — especially in a world where investments are fundamentally made in people by other people. Daydreaming of being the next Facebook or Snapchat may not be productive, but we have been taught to be adaptable. There is nothing keeping us from starting something of our own.I study English because it makes me hungry. It keeps me awake at night with a flashlight under my blanket and writing until I have to ice my hand. Nothing is so essential to the practice of living as the written word. To love literature is to love the human experience at a most intimate level. Poetry is the act of wrangling someone through what it means to be so attentive. Poetry is essential.William Wordsworth teaches us to appreciate the details. Frank O’Hara teaches us to look and listen. Thom Gunn and Anne Sexton teach us how to touch. Derek Walcott teaches us not to forget home. Paul Muldoon teaches us to play. Charles Bernstein teaches us to create our own logic. Sylvia Plath teaches us to be unabashed. Patricia Lockwood teaches us to cut through the crap.The next time I tell someone at a tech conference that I study English, I’m waiting for a “me too”. The space between the liberal arts and the technological world is not so large — a love of one certainly shouldn’t bar you from competence in another. A blank space is just an opportunity. And LinkedIn, I don’t even do research. I start things.Student This is a collections for articles about business including startups, business developments, and management. Managed by 

Hi All,My desk is near one of our micro kitchens and it’s really distracting. I’m on a juice cleanse and I’m tempted every time someone gets a bowl of MMs. Can I move desks?— PhillipTeam,I noticed that we’re using 1-star ping pong balls. For a company that prides itself on quality, this alarms me. We should be using nothing less than 3-star balls.If we overlook quality here, where else are we cutting corners? Product? Support?— PhillipIs our barista using different almond milk? My Gibralter tastes way too nutty. :/— PBI thought our holiday party was good overall … but why place the photo booth on the fourth level mezzanine? Wouldn’t it make more sense to put it on the ground floor? Also, the costumes and props were a bit dated.— PhillipCall me hyper focused, but wouldn’t it be more efficient to have a food runner bring smoothies to our desks? How much can a person like that really cost?Cheers,— PhillipI find organic yoga mats to be more comfortable than the ones in our studio. We shouldn’t skimp on the thickness of padding. Can you also be sure the new mats aren’t coated in polyurethane?— PI find the music in our wellness suite to be distracting. It’s really hard to decompress during a massage when my ears are being assaulted by pan flutes.— PhilHey Everyone,I’m not trying to be nit picky but our sushi chef was using a Western-style knife to cut my sushi roll. Everyone knows that a “Yanagiba” knife provides the most precise and clean cut. I’d hate for this oversight to impact a recruit’s decision.My two cents,— PhillipI check emails from home nearly everyday. Have we ever considered providing fiber connections to the homes of every employee? Or maybe an Internet stipend? :)Thoughts?— PhilI’m feeling a bit discriminated against. Have we thought about creating a non-paternity/non-maternity “unlimited” paid leave policy for those who will never have children?— PhillipWhere we are and what were doing in the near future. We make videos at 

Smart digital takes place when you don’t realise it’s happening. When the experience is seamless, and where tech doesn’t get in the way of real life.For example a keen runner is passionate about achieving her goals. That sense of freedom when you get out in the open air and escape all the pressures and stresses of life. But all the while, your Nike running app is recording your progress; pulling in live data from your location to your pace. It’s giving you a nudge when you need it. But it’s not getting in the way of the scenery, or the precious time you get to relax and escape.This seamless digital integration into life — that’s what smart digital is all about. It’s not about looking through hundreds of pictures of other people’s lives when there’s a world around you to explore. It’s about helping eliminate tasks that get in the way of enjoying the real things in life.It’s sorting your weekly shopping with the click of a button so you can spend more time with your children when you get home from work. It’s fast track check-in at an airport so you can start your holiday reading sooner. It’s reminding you to not forget afternoon tea with your Nan. It’s informing you what that great song is playing in the shop. It’s letting you know there’s a sale on at your favourite shop round the corner.If you innovate for innovation’s sake, you won’t solve a problem. You’ll create one. Let’s create smart digital experiences that you hardly notice are happening. Fewer screens and more reality please.Dare is a New Digital Agency. Visit A New Digital Agency

Why are tech companies flocking to the Tenderloin district of San Francisco, notorious for its high crime rate and soaring levels of poverty?In 2011, the city of San Francisco offered tax breaks to companies to entice them to set up shop in this disadvantaged area of the city. The proposal was known in some circles as the “There was a catch, though. Twitter, Zendesk, Zoosk, Spotify, One Kings Lane and Microsoft’s Yammer were asked to sign broadly-defined This move was seen as a way to mitigate the effects of tech companies moving into low-income areas. (How have such agreements fared? It’s still a little early to know. But in spite of these efforts, CBAs have garnered a good deal of criticism. In a city where gentrification is a huge topic of conversation, many continue to see the influx of tech workers as the real blight on the neighborhood. (According And they have a point. Regardless of the benefits provided to the community by CBAs, tech companies and their influx of well-paid employees have raised rents, forcing out long-time residents. Such agreements also do little to offset the immense economic inequality between the upper class workers and those caught in the cycle of poverty. They also exacerbate a housing shortage that has reached crisis levels. (San Francisco topped Forbes’ 2015 list of the Del Seymour, the self-appointed “Mayor of the Tenderloin,” said the “tech community is here to stay and so are we.” Unfortunately, the anti-eviction mapping coalition’s data So are city-enforced agreements that require volunteer work and local investment from companies a solution to the myriad problems of gentrification? Do they really “mitigate” the effect? And is this something we should expect to see more of in the future?AJ+ is news for the connected generation, sharing human struggles, and challenging the status quo. Download the app to be a part of a global community.

Dans notre équipe, à Nous vivons dans un monde où la technologie est omniprésente, des ordinateurs aux téléphones en passant par les tablettes, et même, plus récemment, les lunettes ou les montres. La pléthore d’objets disponibles a considérablement modiﬁé nos habitudes du quotidien. Si consulter la météo le matin sur son smartphone, lire le journal sur sa tablette, ou encore répondre à un SMS juste à l’aide de sa voix n’étaient pas des choses habituelles il y a 5 ans, aujourd’hui, tous ces gestes sont devenus courants.Certaines La manière la plus simple de vérifier nos idées c’est tout simplement de les tester en prototypant l’outil que nous avons imaginé et en le confrontant directement aux utilisateurs. Ceci dans le but d’améliorer le concept et d’avoir un retour pertinent sur notre travail.C’est dans cet état d’esprit que nous avons réuni toute l’équipe. Dans le but de concevoir un produit en partant d’une problématique que nous rencontrons régulièrement.La NFC (Near Field Communication) est une technologie que la plupart d’entre vous utilise tous les jours, souvent sans même le savoir. D’un côté il y a un support qui contient des données, généralement un téléphone ou une carte. De l’autre côté, il y a un lecteur qui analyse ces données tout en effectuant des actions en fonction de celles-ci. Les exemples de la vie courante sont multiples : les cartes de bus ou de métro, cartes de fidélité, systèmes de paiement sans contact via carte bancaire ou téléphone, et bien plus encore.Cette technologie est intéressante pour plusieurs raisons : elle existe depuis assez longtemps et est utilisée dans de nombreux domaines. De plus, se procurer un lecteur NFC avec quelques cartes n’est ni difficile, ni onéreux. il faut compter une cinquantaine d’euros pour un lecteur NFC et 50 cartes.Seulement, la technologie ne se suffit pas à elle-même. Pour que notre projet soit suffisamment intéressant pour être utilisé, il faut réfléchir à la manière dont l’utilisateur va s’en servir et l’apport réel de l’outil.Pour rendre un produit intéressant et inciter les gens à l’utiliser, le plus important est de s’intéresser à notre public, pour bien comprendre quels sont ses problèmes et de quelles manières y remédier.Pour ce projet, le public cible est aisément accessible, puisqu’il s’agit de notre équipe et de nos clients. Nous avons donc travaillé, deux développeurs et deux designers, à concevoir cet outil de vote. Quelles sont les fonctionnalités dont nous avons besoin ? De quelle manière cet outil sera-t-il utilisé ? Comment rendre l’interface attractive ? Autant de questions auxquelles il est important de répondre avant de commencer la réalisation du projet.C’est dans cette phase de réflexion que l’essentiel du travail est effectué, le but étant de comprendre l’utilisateur, se mettre à sa place pour mieux imaginer un outil qui puisse lui correspondre et qui lui soit utile. On pourrait aisément penser que, sur un projet comme celui-là où nous sommes les utilisateurs, cette étape est facile. Mais il n’en est rien.Cette réflexion demande de prendre beaucoup de recul par rapport au projet, mais également par rapport aux utilisateurs. En effet, le point de vue des personnes qui créent le produit est différent de celui des personnes qui vont l’utiliser. Pour rendre le projet intéressant, il doit être le plus simple possible à utiliser. Aujourd’hui, les applications qui fonctionnent le mieux sont celles dont les interfaces sont les plus simples, les plus accessibles et intuitives. Seulement, une interface simple ne signifie pas qu’il y a peu de travail en amont, bien au contraire.En effet c’est durant cette phase que ressortent les différences dans la manière de penser de chacun. Un designer va d’abord penser à comment mettre en place le projet, comment designer les interfaces pour rendre l’outil plus attractif. Le développeur va plus naturellement penser à l’aspect fonctionnalité. Même si, techniquement, ce projet ne présente aucune difficulté apparente, en tant que développeur, il est primordial d’anticiper toutes les éventualités pour réduire au maximum le risque d’erreurs et de bugs lors de la réalisation du produit.C’est ainsi que l’on peut apercevoir la complexité de la relation entre développeurs et designers. Chacun a sa vision des choses, la plupart du temps différente de celle de l’autre. Pourtant, la nature même de ces deux métiers fait qu’ils sont complémentaires et que, dans l’univers ultra-connecté dans lequel nous vivons, l’un va difficilement sans l’autre.Pour le développeur, les fonctionnalités à créer ne seront pas toujours celles qui l’intéresseront le plus. Pour le designer, les interfaces ne seront pas toujours exactement celles qu’il a pu imaginer. Il est donc nécessaire que chacun comprenne le métier de l’autre afin d’appréhender au mieux quelles peuvent être les conséquences de tel ou tel choix sur l’utilisateur final.Sur notre projet, cette relation s’est passée sans encombre, d’une part du fait de la relative simplicité du produit et, d’autre part, car ce travail de conception s’est effectué dès le début du projet. Cela permet d’éviter beaucoup de problèmes d’incompréhension inhérents aux différences entre nos deux métiers.Le produit issu de cette démarche est donc un outil de vote et d’animation de réunion utilisant la technologie NFC. Une personne chargée d’organiser la réunion va créer un évènement sur la plateforme web que nous avons développé. Une fois l’évènement défini (date, heure, participants, etc.), l’organisateur crée et assigne les différentes problématiques qui seront traitées.Lors de la réunion, l’animateur connecte le lecteur NFC à son ordinateur et projette sur un écran les différentes problématiques à aborder. Les débats apparaissent un à un sur l’écran et tous les participants peuvent donner leur avis en votant. Le système de vote est simple : chaque participant possède 4 cartes NFC. Chacune correspond à une couleur allant du rouge au bleu.Le logiciel va prendre en compte les votes des différents participants et calculer une couleur intermédiaire représentant la moyenne des avis sur cette question. Cette couleur va s’afficher sous la forme d’un grand cercle avec, à ses côtés, les détails des votes des participants. L’objectif de cet outil est d’encourager le dialogue entre les différents membres d’une réunion. Il ajoute aussi du dynamisme et de l’interactivité, tout en restant concentré sur les sujets à traiter.La réalisation de ce projet fut une expérience très enrichissante sur plusieurs points de vue. Tout d’abord sur le plan technique, avec l’apprentissage d’une technologie. Mais, l’intérêt se situe avant tout dans la démarche que nous avons utilisé. Actuellement, l’outil est fonctionnel, nous allons bientôt le tester lors de nos réunions à Évolt, puis lors de réunions avec nos clients. En fonction des retours et des usages observés, nous allons pouvoir améliorer le produit et y rajouter de nouvelles fonctionnalités si nécessaire.Developer “La meilleure façon de prédire le futur est de l’inventer” — Alan Kay (1971)

Try going to this url.No, I did not embed the wrong url into the link. Try typing it into your browser yourself.It leads to Amazon.com because Relentless.com was the original name for the company Jeff Bezos conceived. In the book Relentless is perhaps the most apt word to describe the company that has completely changed the way we buy things. Amazon is a disruptive tech company which has revolutionized retail.But is it really a ‘tech company’?Let’s take a look at the headquarters of some tech companies.Microsoft HQ is angular, metallic, and the irregular pillars imply a willingness to bend the rules. Googleplex assaults the senses with the primary colors, and an eclectic mix of curves and right angles. Facebook’s gigantic thumbs up sign forces you to notice it as you drive by it into its Menlo Park campus.The peculiar, quirky architectural features of these tech companies are all statements of identity. Their facades scream “WE ARE THE FUTURE”.What about Amazon?If you weren’t paying attention, you’d completely miss it.Actually, even if you were paying attention, without prior knowledge or the aid of an app, you would still miss it. The Amazon office doesn’t even say “Amazon” at the entrance.Google HQ is called the Googleplex. Microsoft calls its office a campus, as does Facebook. Amazon’s office is called… an office. In corporate culture, words are not just words. Like the architecture of a company’s headquarters, they are a mirror to the soul of a business.Listen to the Amazon doctrine, the guiding principle as to how Amazon conducts its business:Again, let’s compare this to other tech companies’ missions.There is a sense of moral weight to these mission statements. Google went so far as to include in its initial IPO, the now famous motto: “Don’t be evil”. This has evolved to Alphabet’s new adage in its corporate code of conduct:Amazon professes to no morality. Its guiding principle is not some idealistic sense of improving the world, or empowering people. Its ‘God’ is the consumer.It’s a profoundly different creature than the tech companies we think of. This is why when the Amazon uses tech to achieves its goals. But it isn’t a ‘tech company’ as we tend to conceive them.What is it then?In the tech world, Amazon stands out for three reasons:In the past year, Amazon’s preoccupation with price points, cutting costs, and worshipping the customer, while hugely benefiting consumers, has led it into disputes with Frugality. Competing on price. Consumer sovereignty. Conflicts with suppliers and workers. A culture of secrecy. Calls its workers ‘associates’. Ring any bells?Amazon’s estranged sibling is not Google, Facebook, or Microsoft. It’s Walmart. Like Amazon, it’s about “everyday low prices”. Like Amazon, it operates on frugality. Like Amazon, it’s willing to battle suppliers and workers in its quest to provide the best value proposition to consumers.Hold up, you might say. What about Amazon’s focus on big data? And what about Amazon’s gadgets? The Kindle, or Amazon’s new line of Fire tablets for instance. Surely there’s some technological innovation there.Amazon does not make money on the Kindle, which is The Kindle and Fire are gateways. They open portals into Amazon’s ever tantalizing One Click Purchase retail haven. In a Fortune put it best in its Amazon Web Services competes on similar principles. Price, cost cutting, and consumer sovereignty but applied to cloud computing. Already its cheap and quick services have gained a One might say Amazon is Walmartifying the tech industry.Amazon defeated its early rival, ebay, by consolidating its supply chain: taking warehouse management into its own hands, partnering with UPS, and guaranteeing on time delivery. This willingness to get into supply chain management marks Amazon as first and foremost, a retail company and not a tech company.It’s no surprise that Walmart is now Looking forward, what can we expect from the company? To answer the question, I think we can return to the question of names.Why did Jeff Bezos decide to adopt the name ‘Amazon’ in the end? He named it so because the Amazon river was the biggest in the world, and he wanted Amazon to become the biggest store in the world.Amazon’s ambitions leave consumers giddy with excitement and suppliers trembling in anxiety. Whether this relentless momentum becomes a flood, or dries out, one thing is for sure: like the river, Amazon will shape the landscape that we live in.Scatterbrain. Foodie, techie, activist. Writes on Southeast Asian politics at duriandemocracy.com

I just came back from the Yes, there is a “but” coming.The talk that came before me, BUT as I watched everyone clear the room and not many more coming back in, I felt my heart drop. First, as I often do, I internalized it. “I’m a nobody, who wants to come see me speak?” “That’s what I get for not doing a technical talk at a technical conference.” “People are not going to respect me as a technical person if I keep giving these ‘soft’ talks.” Standing in front of all those empty chairs, I kept smiling and tried not show disappointment.Note that there were other talks going on at the same time and Angular is generally a popular topic. However, I did a I spent a lot of time and effort putting the talk together. Losing sleep, adding to my already packed work schedule, flying in and out to the west coast in two days, putting myself out there by sharing personal stories and potentially burning bridges. For what?Because it’s important to me. And it’s important to the people that took the time to come. Chatting with the attendees after the the talk reminded me of why I chose to speak on this topic. It wasn’t for Twitter fame or job opportunities or to boost my personal profile.It was to present a different viewpoint on the topic that is not often shared. It was an attempt to spark a change instead of keeping it to myself, leaving the industry or just complaining about it.It was to let others know that they are not alone.Need a diversity talk? Get at me. Web Developer  Educator. Technical Lead at Ladies Learning Code. Free agent. Fuck em, we ball. 

I turned 48 last February. It wasn’t a particularly symbolic birthday, but it was marked with significant change in my life: after 30 years in the Bay Area, my family and I hightailed it out of California to the land of rain, impeccable bar food, and a more dialed down lifestyle. Yep, Portland, OR. This, to me, was symbolic because the city I hightailed to in 1985 (San Francisco) and later, the industry I have lived and breathed for the last 2o-plus years (technology) have become anything BUT dialed down.Unless you’re living under a rock, you are aware that In 1985, I was college-bound and starved for excitement. I chose to go to school in San Francisco because I knew it afforded me culture, diversity, a kick-ass music scene, and I wasn’t too far from home that I couldn’t spend a weekend with my folks every once in a while. Within a few years, I dropped out of college, met a wide array of artists, performers, waiters, activists and retail clerks. By the mid-90s, I ended up in tech.I’ve had many a conversation with women over the years about the fact we started at a pretty level playing field with the guys in the 80s. It was never much of a He vs. She thing. Unfortunately today, sports metaphors don’t work any longer (and I don’t have to post a bunch of links here to acknowledge this fact). What happened?While I appreciate how much dialogue is taking place with the ongoing gender gap in tech today (and yeah, you’re absolutely right, most industries), I find myself craving more voices who’ve been around the block a few times. Women who have spent many years figuring out how to navigate, pause, advance, reflect, etc. and who can share that with us.I decided to ask around. Hence, the start of this blog series: Women, Tech and 20.Twenty years ago, the Internet was kinda sorta known, but the Web was not commonly used to explain what we were creating. Think about it. At the time, there were plenty of women migrating out of There’s a few reasons I’d like to share my perspective and then encourage other women to share their perspective:Why no one ever took the initiative decades before, I will never know (and if they tried, we should know more about why their project wasn’t realized). However with this act, Tracy has become a celebrity. I hope for Tracy’s sake that she doesn’t succumb to what we all know as the Cult of Personality. I hope Pinterest won’t make her some PR ploy. Worse yet, I hope she doesn’t hire her own agent. This is not what Tracy, women and this industry need; we need people who are in it to change that crummy data.Look for my next post soon. And thanks for reading.

Have technical leadership.Have a good mentorship program.Care about code quality  testing.Promote collaboration among disciplines.Have language specific style guides.Dedicate 20% of work time on side projects.Force pairing upon the developers.Have architectural decisions solely made by the leadership.Say “I’ve always done it this way”, “Everyone does it this way” or even “Pivotal does it this way”.Believe that a ping-pong table, a beer fridge, a company t-shirt or a free lunch is culture.contemplating existentialism and the mastery of software craft

This is a little story floating around Weibo and Wechat lately about a Chinese tech startup called To truly understand the context of this story, we need to take a look at Chummy’s founder and CEO. Lisa Liu’s last job was as the Vice President and Chief of Public Relations at none other than the Chinese tech behemoth Chummy is a shared-economy platform that links Chinese travelers with local Chinese expats. The local Chinese host shows the traveler around the city, and gets reimbursed for giving the traveler a unique experience. In other words, it’s like a Chinese Airbnb for travel experiences.As you can see, the company’s landing page also bears an uncanny resemblance to the landing page of Airbnb. So yea, we kind of get what they’re going after here.Chummy also offers a special service that links its users with Chinese employees of Silicon Valley tech giants such as Facebook, Airbnb, and Twitter. With the founder’s background in tech, this comes as no surprise. These tours of Silicon Valley tech companies was an easy way for Lisa Liu to use her tech connections and industry authority to create a unique value proposition for Chummy’s users.Being posted up at companies such as Facebook, Chummy’s first hosts were certainly in no need of the extra cash. They were probably just doing a favor for the high-falootin’ Lisa Liu and her budding startup.Like I mentioned earlier, this is all gleamed from these viral posts on Weibo and Wechat, I have yet to talk firsthand to anyone involved in the incident. But this is what happened.Some of Facebook’s Chinese employee’s were hosting guests on Chummy, giving them tours of Facebook during working hours and charging them for meals in Facebook’s fancy employee dining hall. Facebook’s management found out and fired Weibo is rife with other allegations. Some people are saying that these Chinese employee’s weren’t fired for making extra money during work hours, but the real issue was that they were hosting Chinese employees of Tencent around Facebook’s campus. An apparent conflict of interest, Facebook would rightfully fear the safety of it’s intellectual property with Tencent employees wandering around it’s campus. Tencent is Again, unverified! Wow wow wow, easy guy, don’t put words in my mouth, I’m just the piano player. Easy. Not The plot thickens when Facebook’s lawyers sent a letter to Chummy telling them to cut it out, their shared economy platform is not welcome on Facebook’s campus. In response, Lisa Liu published an open letter addressing the incident. To any sensitive viewers out there, I advise you to look away, serious Bang, there you have it, Zucky. Just trying to change the world.比特妹客 in shanghai.



It’s never been more clear that Tech and San Francisco are a great match. We don’t have time for political games and old-world politics. We need the fresh energy, ideas, and passion from tech to help solve our crises and start shaping our future.Growing up, I always loved computers. From our original Macintosh in the ‘80s, I was excited to come home every day from school to draw, to create, and to interact. Technology was my escape, my outlet, and it became my passion.When I chose a college, I decided against a technology-focused program and instead found I moved to California in 2003. A good friend grew up in the Bay Area and needed a fourth roommate. I had no job and no prospects, so I packed my bags and a week later found myself in California, with almost no expectations. I could barely afford the rent (which today feels absurdly low), but I was determined to find a path. After a number of months, I landed a part-time job working retail in downtown San Francisco. While selling products was hardly my skill, it was income, I found a community, and I fell in love with San Francisco.My part-time job gave me full opportunity to truly enjoy the city. Despite making barely as much income as I paid in rent, San Francisco welcomed me with open arms. Spending time in Golden Gate park, sitting at a cafe for hours writing, riding Muni to every neighborhood I could find. I discovered a welcoming, diverse community of people. I could stay up all night debating politics, cook dinner with friends discussing environmental justice, get beers at Toronado and argue about physics. The breadth and passion of San Franciscans seemed endless. There was a renaissance spirit in the air; the people I met strived to work with as much purpose as possible, but enjoy life even more. I’d never been exposed to so many outward-focused people in my life, people who pushed the envelope of change.After a year in retail, I landed my dream job: a designer at Apple. Wide-eyed and devoted to my craft, I gave the job my everything. Long nights, weekends, you name it.There were no tech shuttles, no Ubers, and no iPhones. I blasted music from CDs in my 1994 Dodge Neon to make the 50 minute drive down the peninsula a little more bearable. Most of my coworkers lived in the South Bay and would often ask why I lived in San Francisco, despite the cost and the commute.“San Francisco feels like a home,” I replied. “It feels like When I was at Apple, I had the opportunity to work on iTunes and help shape the Apple TV. I remember vividly the first time I met Steve Jobs and subsequently had the opportunity to interact with him on multiple projects. You can say many things about the man, but he had an acute understanding of humanity.One night, Steve was in my office working on a project. On my wall I had a half dozen printouts of visions for the Muni Metro. They caught his eye briefly and he turned to me, “Are those real?”“I’d love them to be,” I responded.“If you can make that happen, San Francisco will be forever better.”I’m ferociously passionate about design, technology, and information. But technology is, and always should be, subserviant to humanity. What purpose does technology serve, if not to empower and improve the lives of us mere mortals?For grad school, I studied at the MIT Media Lab, where I was surrounded by and helped create projects that push the envelope of technology and humanity. It became clear how much opportunity there is for technology to create a more equitable future and a more human existence — to push the world forward.What I see today feels different. My own blindness and love of technology surely blinded me before as well, but I never thought that the industry I loved, that was my hobby, my passion, and, incredibly, my employment, would ever be something causing harm to my city. That it would play a role in the loss of people’s homes, communities, diversity, and cultures. That money would come before people, and that collectively the tech industry would turn a blind eye in the name of profit.Here’s the problem: as much as many of us want to believe otherwise, it’s not simply other people’s faults. While there are countless things that we could have done as a city (and region) to better prepare for the rapid increase of well-paid white collar jobs, hindsight is 20/20. In 2008, the city couldn’t find a single developer interested to build along Octavia. In 2001, the bubble had just burst and it wasn’t clear what exactly the future of tech in the Bay Area would hold. The rapid growth of hiring is somewhat unprecedented. Even I have predicted that this was a bubble, and could pop at any moment.Today, San Francisco faces a number of challenges, from rising inequality, crime, and homelessness to the loss of diversity, culture, and community. Those who talk about change in tech often look at solving world crises from hunger to climate change. These are incredible and noble goals, but they can’t blind us from also looking at our own world and the injustices that exist around us. Most revolutions ultimately start at home.People have often labeled Ed Lee as a “tech” mayor, as a criticism for his administration’s failed policies. The theory goes that he caters to tech, rather than people. But the problem isn’t The problem is money. And money is ultimately power.Both locally and nationally, the corrupting influence of money in politics leads to backroom deals and campaign donors getting special treatment or winning inflated contracts. I’m a strong supporter of groups like This corruption and pay-to-play politics model is all too familiar in San Francisco. Nobody was surprised to hear that These reports should lead us to seriously question the ability for our current administration to lead us forward.I look at San Francisco and see incredible opportunity. There is literally no city that’s better equipped to lead the world today. A compassionate human city at the cutting edge of technology? I can’t even begin to imagine what a powerful force for good in the world we can be together.So let’s stop debating our issues and start fixing them. In addition to my push for Let’s recognize that disruption can be both good and bad; if it creates profits at the expense of people, it’s probably not the good kind. If it disrupts our crony political machine, it probably is. So let’s use disruption for good and change how we think about government.San Francisco is a magical place like no other. It has a raw humanity to it that you can’t get from hanging out on Twitter or Facebook. There’s genuine community support—neighbors who will come to your help when you need them, not because you pay them. If you spend time walking through the city, you see outside of yourself, outside of your socioeconomic class, and outside of your world view. There are parts of San Francisco that make us uncomfortable and parts that bring us inspiration.I challenge everyone who works in technology, if you don’t already: embrace where you live. That doesn’t simply mean a team event volunteering at a Tenderloin soup kitchen. It means getting to know the owner of your corner market instead of ordering food at home. It means riding Muni — the great democratizer — instead of taking an Uber, which 80% of the city can’t even afford to regularly take (For perspective, Taxis, Ubers, Lyft, etc. make up fewer than 3% of trips in San Francisco.) It means discussing these issues with other people who don’t work in tech. It means showing up to a neighborhood meeting, getting involved with an advocacy group or a social organization. It even means having a side project, tech-related or otherwise, just to do something great for your neighborhood or San Francisco. Embrace what you do best, and share it with those around you.For those who don’t work in technology, understand that the displacement and evictions come from bad policies, pay-to-play politics, and profit-seeking, not simply “techies.” The root of our problems is misbalanced power, and at the root of this power is money, corporate interests — tech companies and otherwise — and cronyism politics, not technology. You’ll be surprised how effective we can be when people in tech and communities really start to work together.Above all else, it means having pride in your home, your neighborhood, and your city. Our City. We truly live in the greatest city in the world. Let’s make it even more incredible.Let’s stop the politics and start the If you’re passionate about changing the conversation and helping to shape a real vision for San Francisco, please help out with my Candidate, Mayor of San Francisco 2015. Passionate about humanity, equality, mobility, technology, design, art, culture, San Francisco. 

TL;DR Joining Techstars Boulder was the single best decision I have ever made. If you are on the fence about applying, just do it. Feel free to reach out to me for application help, interview prep, or any random questions you have at Wednesday is Demo Day, and the last day of Techstars Boulder. In the next couple months, companies will be starting their Techstars journey in the NYC, Metro (Detroit), and Cloud (San Antonio) programs.Below are the 5 tidbits of advice for any company going into day 1 at Techstars.In Techstars the days are long and the weeks are short. Don’t let the time slip by, 3 months goes by extremely fast. The relationships you make will last a lifetime.Co-Founder @ adHawk. Xoogler

Remember when a huge economic recession hit America six years ago, gutting people’s savings and pensions and causing unemployment to soar? Well, if you’re new to San Francisco or Silicon Valley, chances are you don’t.New skyscrapers are thickening the downtown skyline. Rents are astronomical — the worst in the country, and the thought of buying a house anywhere in the region is a joke to anyone who doesn’t work for Mark Zuckerberg. Meanwhile, the rest of the country is struggling to climb out of the recession. U.S. GDP — which accounts for the total value of American goods and services—is trending downward. Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Chicago, NYC all have higher unemployment rates than the Bay Area.Those two things — a weak national economy, and a booming tech industry — are linked. The economic slowdown is what has allowed tech to boom. Think billion dollar valuations of companies like Instagram, SnapChat and WhatsApp. I’ll explain why.The nation’s central banking system, the Federal Reserve, controls interest rates to help regulate the economy. After the big crash in 2008, it set interest rates to zero. The idea is that when loans have no interest, it loosens people up to borrow and spend, stimulating the economy. The interest rates hovered around 5 percent before the economy crashed.Those interest rates might be nominal to the average person, with a marginal impact on your ability to secure loans. But for richer companies, hedge funds, and investors, it’s not smart to leave money in savings when there’s no interest. It’s better to invest in something that might have a high payoff. So where can they spend it?Housing and real estate are not great investments now in most parts of the country because there is still too much inventory, and that overbuilding (and overlending) was a main facilitator of the crash in the first place. Manufacturing is still struggling to make money too. So people have turned to tech. Lots and lots of tech.Venture capitalist Fred WilsonVenture capitalists — those lenders who look to invest in an early-stage company in hopes that it will be the next Uber, Airbnb, Facebook — are pouring money into tech companies. Billion-dollar companies, known as “unicorns” for their rare qualities, are springing up more often. In January 2014, there were 42 venture-backed-companies worth more than $1 billion. Now, there’s more than 100, Many tech companies attracting investment are not yielding a profit. And, as another venture capitalist argues, many employees at those companies, the same people buying up real estate across San Francisco and Silicon Valley, may not realize the risk they’re taking.He continued: “And as more and more people make that decision, the risk is constantly increasing. No one makes the implicit decision, ‘I am going to go to work for a money losing company!’ However, slowly over time, a large portion of the employees in the area inherently are. And then, when the bubble bursts, the consequences are far greater.”So what happens when the economy improves and the Fed raises its interest rates again (But the local economies where tech is thriving might be another story. A report from SPUR, a San Francisco planning advocacy group, said economists are watching closely the risk of changes to interest rates. “The investment pouring into the Bay Area is partially motivated by historically low federal interest rates,” the report reads.Even if venture capitalists stop investing as much in tech, it is unlikely to gut local economies that have thrived. It just might mean tech companies will take away some of those employee free lunches or other perks, or maybe they’ll trim their number of employees.If you’re in tech, this might be bad news. But if you’re not, well, an affordable apartment may finally be in your reach. Maybe.AJ+ is news for the connected generation, sharing human struggles, and challenging the status quo. Download the app to be a part of a global community.

One of the things I’m asked about most is the art of recruiting software engineers. I’ve done a lot of it. I would estimate that I’ve personally interviewed and hired almost 100 engineers in the last decade. In order to do that, I’ve probably had preliminary conversations with 500+ engineers. My friend Jeff Appelbaum from The level of froth seems more intense than ever. Is it? Maybe. In any case, you have a job to grow your team, so stop worrying about how things are, and just get out there with a nice approach. You will succeed.So you’re a CTO or Engineering Manager and you need to hire 10+ elite engineers? You have to be completely dedicated to recruiting until the job is done. There are no shortcuts. You should be spending 120% of your time on recruiting. That’s 80% of your regular day, then 40% of all your nights and weekends. Really.At Beachmint we started with a team of two and recruited and hired over 40 engineers and product people in 18 months. I had dinners 3–4 nights a week. The local coffee shop was my other office. Lunch time was recruiting time. I had at least eight external recruiters working for me at any given time. We lost only two engineers in our first 18 months. Read more below on “Culture is King.”Software engineers are some of the most genuine and sincere people you will find. They’re just the best. If you treat them with respect and you empathize with how their minds work, they will stay by your side and give you their best energy.They don’t care about your Rolex watch. They don’t care about your cashmere sweater. They also don’t care what your stupid valuation is, or how hard you crushed it at Stanford biz school.They just want to build rad stuff, to solve cool problems, to talk bytes and code and db’s and repos and distributed architecture and containers and continuos deployment and cacheing and IOT and arduinos and raspberry pi’s and drones and pull request process. Their minds are always turning with cool ideas and infinite scenarios. Embrace these characteristics and be proud of them, but also help them achieve, help them with constraints, help them build frameworks for success.INSIDER TIP: Engineers judge you harsh if you don’t know the difference between Java and javascript. Don’t try to trick them. They know. They’re honest people. They can spot a non-technical person a mile away. Do your homework, study and be sincere. If you lie or scheme just to sound smart, they will never forget that.There are two engineers I’ve worked with who were younger than 28 that I would bet my career on: Furthermore, I think our industry has turned its back on craft, on mastery, on apprenticeship, on our skilled trade. There are certainly some young engineers who break the mold, and what a glorious experience it is to work with them. But generally speaking, I want to work with learned masters, I don’t want risky cowboys and cowgirls who shoot first and ask questions later. Any battle tested engineer has learned how unpredictable software is. She knows a healthy fear of software systems, but also how to pragmatically mitigate risk and establish frameworks for success while still leaving space for creativity.Your culture will only attract engineers that thrive in your type of environment. Talk to most investors and founders, and they will advocate for a relentless employee culture of working 80 hours per week, free meals, eating and sleeping at the office. Where did we acquire this mentality? It is completely unethical. Thankfully our industry seems to be changing for the better, but we still have a long way to go. If our engineers or product developers need to work 80 hours per week to achieve success, maybe we should rethink what we are building and re-prioritize their workflow.Consistency, predictability, cadence. These things carry our team over time. Teams that frequently work through the night fueled by the latest energy drink are prone to erratic and emotional behavior, unreliability, and health crashes. If we encourage developers to keep a healthy work-life balance, they will surely use some of their free energy to solve problems and create efficiencies. Their brains will also solve our problems with less fatigue. They will operate within any constraints our culture mandates.The single thing that has saved me the most time with recruiting is requiring code tests from every engineer. I have found that recruiters with strong relationships are always able to get their candidates to complete a code test in advance. Recruiters (and candidates) who refuse to comply are not worth your time.Spend sincere time with candidates. Take them to lunch and dinner. Drink beer with them. Learn about their personality. Learn about their families. Talk code, talk process. Tell jokes. Have a laugh. Don’t talk too much business.They made it in front of you for an interview because they’re smart. Everyone knows that. Smarts only carry one so far. Can you work with this person every day? Will they mesh with the personalities of your team? If you spend time with them away from the office, your intuition can tell you what type of fit they are for your organization.Going to every tech Meetup every night is a waste of time. The only events worth your time are the hardcore, specialized tech meetups. Even better if you run/sponsor said hardcore tech meetup. Avoid anything ‘entrepreneurial.’ If there are a lot of recruiters at an event, just leave. It’s the wrong event, and you have sleep to catch up on, or a relationship to salvage.Good recruiters are invaluable to our industry. Recruiters are often the first people to know when the top candidates get back on the market. This is because the good recruiters build long-standing relationships. Good recruiters EARN the trust of engineers over time. Good recruiters can weave a strong web across different segments of a city’s industry.Engineering is not an overly social pursuit. In our industry, rock stars are built on open source commits, not charisma. When evaluating new opportunities, engineers value TRUST over almost any other thing. Engineers will generally reach out to the safest, most trusted resource when searching for a new gig.Get out of the office, have some fun, be sincere, and build some relationships. The stronger your relationships, the easier it will be to find great people during your long career.Author of Rocket Fueled Process (42Hire.com is the most shared hiring content

The team developed technology that would transform PHC’s data organization and resource management. Here’s what inspired the project — and a look into the process behind it!In 2004, SF Mayor Gavin Newsom and the Department of Public Health created The figures alone are appalling:Furthermore, support can be difficult to find. Gaining access to basic resources, such as housing and job assistance, mental health services and addiction recovery, means first passing waitlists and numerous forms.These are massive events, which gather dozens of service-providing nonprofits and over 2000 clients together in 1 location. Individuals are provided the various services they need, ranging from eye care to free books and foot washing. Information about the clients also adds to a central database accessible by smaller nonprofits in the area.PHC used paper forms for every transaction at its service events, which gave way to a number of problems.During such events, thousands of sheets of paper holding names, social security numbers, and other sensitive information would be thrown into cardboard boxes and folders. For days following, data-entry volunteers would work on inputting this information into spreadsheets or online file. But inevitably, some data would get lost in the process.Unfortunately, the information that The app would:The team also began cleaning and reconfiguring parts of the database to provide better, more usable data to PHC.Blueprint then tried using Heroku’s newly-built HerokuConnect service, which provides bidirectional syncing between Salesforce and Heroku. However, the nonprofit could not afford its $10,000 annual charge.The main users of the application would be To accommodate to a broad range of technical backgrounds, the app incorporated:The team also underwent multiple rounds of user testing throughout the year.To accommodate to these inaccuracies, the app used:1. Fuzzy string matching of their names using the Ruby gem textacular2. And showed results of many possible users, offering birthdates to distinguish between possible candidatesBecause 1. App flow that prevents unintended actions2. Validation and confirmation screens for all tasks3. Feedback toasts for all tasksAnother main concern was security. To accommodate for potential security risks, the team1. Set up lock screens on all the tablets2. Required all requests to contain the correct authorization token. Should a tablet be stolen, the authorization token could be immediately changed3. Hid social security numbers within the appSince the app would be used mostly on service days, which take place inside the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium (a massive building with multiple sections and thick walls), internet speed was a concern.To accommodate to slow internet speeds, the team set up unique settings.The app would display an alert prompting users to connect to the internet.The app would display pop-ups with spinners in all parts of the app waiting for responses, so that users knew that their requests were sent.This would also stop them from repeatedly resending the request or navigating to other parts of the app. Furthermore, all requests would stop after a designated time (i.e. 7 seconds) and ask the user to press “retry.”The app would also prevent users from pressing the buttons until necessary information had been retrieved and loaded.Since Blueprint has only 1 year for each project with a nonprofit partner, the code we write must be robust enough to pass on and handle future events with minimal changes. Keep an eye out for To bridge the gap between technology and social good.

So we had a few options, get some ping pong tables and swanky furniture for the garage or help a startup kick some ass, we choose the kicking ass. We are give away 2 tickets to exhibit your startup at TC Disrupt, this can really kickstart your startup, but you gotta work for it, good shit is never free in life. That being said it’s not a difficult task, it just involves you sharing your startups story on Well first you can follow us on Twitter and say hello, that would be nice ;) If you watch the nerdiest show on HBO (Silicon Valley) then you get it. For those of you who don’t it’s only the most bad ass place to launch your startup, and show off your startup to a hyper targeted tech audience. This is also a really great way to meet investors, the press and acquire new users. Some notable startups to launch at TC Disrupt are DropBox, Yammer, FitBit, Zenefits, Trello, Postmates, Venmo, Mint plus many others, so don’t worry you’re in good company.Check this video out for a overview of what you could be a part of. Its basically prom for startups lol.We do have some funding, but since we are doing this we will not be able to attend TC Disrupt this year, It was an easy decision. Please send us lots of pictures, or maybe do a Periscope? or Meerkat? whatever the cool guys are using ;)Best of luck!!@koridhandy  @_mitchellporterDesign founder UX design, and Startup ups and downs

Professional networking events are terrible.There, I said it.Don’t be ashamed if you feel the same way. I felt it myself when I first moved to the Bay Area. And I hear it from many of my friends who work in Tech.A little under 5 months ago, I moved from New York to San Francisco. I knew only 1 person, so I hit the networking circuit to meet friends and break into the Tech scene. The results after 2 months of nightly professional networking?I have one piece of advice, learned the hard way, for anyone new to a city that’s building a network: avoid tech meetups.Let me share the ugly realities of startup events, then we can discuss some alternatives:Fortunately, if you are set on attending startup events, all of these problems have You can bring a friend from work along with you. You can avoid groups of people, and start conversations with individuals standing on the outskirts of conversations. You can attend early morning meetups. You can even grab a quick bite to eat on the way to an event, so you aren’t subjected to the same food night after night.Instead of finding small ways to improve the process, I decided to try something completely different.At My after-hours networking test had failed for 2 consecutive months, but I refused to do anything about it. I expected things would change after a month of overcoming my initial shyness, but 2 months in, I hadn’t noticed an improvement.I finally had enough, so I took a page out of my work playbook.Then, everything changed.In the past few months, I’ve assembled the early building blocks for a network that wouldn’t have formed through networking events.If you‘re unhappy after every meetup you attend, it’s time to try something new. For me, a combination of the following tactics have been I’m a B2B marketer at a high-growth startup on weekdays. I want to be a great marketer, and that means I need to surround myself with great people who are better than me. I attended a few Marketing Tech events, but they attracted people new to marketing, or people who wanted to break into the startup scene.Now, I have an alternative to attending events:Today, I don’t depend on luck to meet people at a random event. I drop notes to specific people with whom I want to speak, and if they respond, I’m one step closer to meeting a new friend.This is my favorite tactic. If there’s a new skill I need to learn (like building a team), I look for people that my CEO is connected to, and ask her if she wouldn’t mind making an introduction.More often than not, she’s happy to, and the recipient of the email is quick to respond.Thanks to a few quick introductions from I cannot overstate the value of Twitter.During a 1:1 last week, my boss reiterated the importance of developing my voice. “Plant seeds now, and build a platform for yourself.”It will take years to get there, but I write every day to refine my voice and create content that creates values for others. That content typically takes the form of blog posts, that I wind up sharing on Twitter.If it’s a good piece of content, it will start a conversation. Instead of chasing someone down at event to give them your business card, you have the luxury of people coming to you. And unlike an event, where conversations are forced and connections are superficial, you are able to create legitimate friendships.I mentioned friendships earlier. This is the key to networking.If you attend startup events just to collect business cards, your network will decay quickly. By the time you get home from an event, you will have either lost all the cards you collected, or decided that you don’t want to follow up with anyone.Instead of going to startup events with the express purpose of meeting people in the industry, go to a non-tech meetup with the express purpose of enjoying yourself.You won’t be uncomfortable the way you are at a professional networking event. You will be yourself, and meet people with similar interests, who just happen to work in Tech, or who have friends in the space. Since you actually enjoy these people, and aren’t just introducing yourself to grab a business card, the chances of you making a legitimate connection increase.Those are the types of connections that will help you make new *friends* in Tech.Marketing A Collection of Posts from the Mattermark Team

Learning to code let you break the saying “any technology sufficiently advanced cannot be distinguished from magic”. Apps are magic for most of us, and we are blind sheeps.By learning to code, even if we don’t become programmers, we look behind the curtain, and the algorithms that rule our lives become a bit less magic. It’s a good thing that citizens can build the tools they need, or at least understand the ones provided to them, so that we are all actors in our modern society.Father. Husband. Entrepreneur. Developper. Education 

Changing human behavior is much like forging a new pathway through the forest; most people will continue to follow the old path until enough pioneers have cleared another one that seems safe and well traveled.For populations facing corrupt governments and unaccountable institutions, fighting the established norms and taking an unmarked path can be much more difficult or even dangerous than accepting their current situation.People are also dissuaded from speaking up if their government leaders and community institutions do not respond to or even repress their concerns.As a USAID democracy officer in Russia, I witnessed how challenging it was for the average Russian citizen to access independent information to build a more economically stable life for their family. With the legacy of 75 years of communism, government institutions were not accustomed to being held accountable by their citizens.At the turn of the century, only 4 percent of people outside of Moscow and Russia could access the internet. But Russians were thirsty for information and NGOs popped up across the Federation with USAID and Western support.Although in recent years space for civil society has dramatically closed, when I returned to Russia in 2012, I was thrilled to see that many of these NGOs were continuing to provide voiceless citizens with access to information and helping them hold government officials accountable.Now, any citizen can report a corrupt politician or ignored city service with a few taps on their phone. These new tools are a strong vehicle for holding government leaders accountable and ensuring that all people have access to justice.The More than 544 applications were submitted. Ideas were diverse, ranging from using SMS text messages to monitor elections and report water supply problems to new mobile tools that improve access to data on where local governments budgeted resources.Imagine living in a place where speaking out against crime, even to the people who are supposed to be protecting you, may seem more harmful than helpful. This is what it is like in Liberia, where citizens have little trust in the police.To give citizens a voice and to foster a dialogue on corruption with members of law enforcement, a new SMS hotline was created. Led by USAID partner Search for Common Ground, the new reporting tools enables anyone with a cell phone to monitor corruption in their community and report it to the police without fear of repercussions or shame.When the root of a problem is fundamental — like the lack of access to cell phones for some rural areas of Kenya — the most effective approach to improving governance combines existing communications tools with new technology. That is why the organizers behind Caritas-Kitui worked with women at a grassroots level to create songs and poetry about community issues that could be shared with their legislators in person and on broadcast radio — a medium that continues to be popular in Kenya.In democracy building, as in many life challenges, solutions may be right in front of us. With this in mind, USAID is increasing its efforts to reach problem solvers who have great ideas for combining technology and citizen engagement to make their communities more resilient and peaceful.New paths are emerging, and with time and the continued growth of tools and grassroots reform, I can envision a world that enables every citizen to be heard.USAID works to end extreme global poverty and enable resilient, democratic societies to realize their potential. Privacy: Ending extreme poverty in this generation.

The answer, as you can see, is Additionally, we have many users from schools around the world who we just couldn’t visualize here (but we love you all the same). Our users attend university in India, Germany, England, Australia and many other countries. It’s exciting to have a global reach at such an early stage! Every school truly matters to us as this is central to the thesis behind 500 Miles.We give companies access to talented candidates across the country and even world. Marissa Mayer attended Stanford, Marc Andreessen graduated from the University of Illinois, Drew Houston did a stint at MIT and Aaron Levie graced the campus of USC. John Zimmer of Lyft attended Cornell and his cofounder, Logan Green attended UCSB. Yes, some of them dropped out before receiving their diplomas but you get the point of geographical dispersion we’re trying to make. Tech companies are largely located in Silicon Valley but that does not mean SV is where all the talent comes from. Or will come from. Ultimately, the next tech superstars will come from well, Questions? Concerns? A remarkable stroke of genius you’d like to share? Contact us at The leading mobile platform for talented candidates to discover, evaluate and engage with high-growth tech employers.

November 20, 2014 8 am, yet another day at my cushy, Bay Area, tech job. Three and a half months into my first job ever and I am already pondering the next step in life, but why? I was a software developer at a medium sized, fast growing, tech company with awesome people and more benefits than I had the attention span to read about, and still I couldn’t muster up even an ounce of excitement when coming to work every morning. I sat at my desk blankly staring at my screen trying to look engaged but failing miserably with the thought of playing pool (we had a game room on every floor and arcade games in the lunchroom). After a few hours of dodging task requests and stealthy visits to the pool table I decided it was time for lunch. Little did I know that this was the last time I would be walking out to lunch already dreading the return to my desk.As I settled back in from lunch I went through the usual routine: chat with friends on Facebook, read some RT articles, and check my email. Scrolling through my inbox I stumbled upon the email that would change my life. A message from my soon-to-be co-founder and CEO, Rudy. The message read something along the lines of:I had met Rudy during my master’s program, where he was doing consulting work for one of my professors. He had recently quit his consulting job to start a company with one of his coworkers and now needed a developer to build their vision. Upon reading this my mind was buzzing, thoughts of starting a company, building a product, getting users, and of course going public and becoming rich. I immediately responded and we scheduled a call for that evening. The rest of the day was a blur as all I could think about was the startup, and how, for as long as I could remember I had wanted to own a company.We talked that evening he told me all about his decision to leave his old job to start this company because he had a real vision to help people on a large scale. Everything he said had me envisioning a grand future with this revolutionary idea and we went on to brainstorm further iterations. After an hour and a half of daydreaming about this company, I let him know I was interested and that we should chat again after the Thanksgiving holiday. We disconnected and suddenly my mind was in a frenzy of thoughts.Despite numerous suggestions from both family and friends to not quit my new job and start a company, I told Rudy I was still interested. We scheduled a weekend for me to fly out to New York and work with the two of them. Needless to say, it went very well and I had made up my mind: I was going to quit my high paying tech job to go live on a couch in New York and try to build something from scratch. Everyone was skeptical and supportive. I quit my job and a month later, whether I was ready or not, I was now an entrepreneur.The team consisted of four of us, two developers and two business guys, and we all got together for the first time in a small conference room in Rudy’s PhD alma mater (we spent the first few months sneaking around the university finding places to work rent free). It was now real and there was no turning back. In the early weeks we worked to get a grip on this completely foreign startup thing. We assigned roles to each other to get some real structure and for the first time in my life I had to design and build a website from scratch. Over the next couple months we created prototypes, did an enormous amount of user testing and were on our way to creating the first full MVP.On the business side we were eagerly looking for money to support ourselves. We raised some initial capital that would allow us enough time to build a beta prototype. On top of that we applied to a startup accelerator that, if offered a seat, would give us an additional $100k and a major brand name supporting us. Our application was accepted to the second stage which was an interview in person in the Bay Area. As soon as we found out, we spent the month leading up to the interview writing code like crazy during the day and conducting mock interviews with one another at night. The days were long but the adrenaline was high.The day of the interview arrived and we were feeling great. We had released our beta version two days before and started to see activity on our site. We had practiced day after day and now had answers ready to shoot. It was proving time. Then it was over. The interview was a blur and before I knew it we were back at my parents house scarfing down hot wings and warming our stomachs with whiskey. It was what felt like the first break in months. The mood changed abruptly, however, when we received an email indicating we had not been accepted due to a “small total addressable market”. The initial shock hit pretty hard as we had been very confident about our chances at getting accepted. What had moments ago felt so close was swiftly pulled away. A few whiskeys later though, our spirits were back up. Just because one person said no it couldn’t change the vision that rooted itself in our minds.Back in New York things were in full swing. We forged through iterations of every piece of the product; building, testing, iterating, shipping. It was like a well-oiled machine. To top it off we learned that we had been offered a year long coworking space after participating in a pitch competition held by my Master’s institution in Manhattan. Whatever bits of gloom remained from the incubator rejection promptly disappeared. We moved into the new office in June and I must say it is absolutely splendid.Through the summer we continued development in much the same manner. About halfway through the summer we also began raising our “Seed” round of funding. This is a significantly larger sum of money than the previous “Angel” round and will allow us to build a fully functioning product that we can properly sell.Now here we are. It is October and we have been steadily building for more than 8 months. Many lines of code, emails, phone calls, meetings, rejections, yeses, nos, maybes, late nights, coffees, three apartments, two offices, two patent filings, one hire, and endless camaraderie. It has been a rush to say the least. We are not by any means close to rich but we are steadily working towards a grand vision. The winter is imminent and we have many many tasks ahead of us. But there is something oddly relaxing about the pressure. A year ago I was floating along with minimal work a large paycheck and a seemingly constant drain of personal satisfaction. Now, I feel more alive than ever doing the one thing I have always dreamed about. Looking back to when I made the decision, the one thing that kept bringing me around was potentially regretting missing out on a new opportunity. Now I can say, definitively, that I have learned more in the last 8 months than I could have ever imagined and would make that decision again a hundred times over.Designer, Co-Founder 

As I was graduating college and pondering my career path, I found myself in my North Berkeley flat saying to my favorite friend in our feminist circle, Linda, “I think I want to go into tech.” This was in the 90s, and Linda, a blunt, blond, blazer-clad tech sales executive, simply nodded and said, “You know, it’s pretty male dominated, the tech industry. They haven’t made any investment in my career.” I was a recent graduate in Micro Economics and French Literature. I retorted, “I just want to build something, you know, make it my own. Be in the middle of where it’s all going.” “Alright,” Linda conceded, “call Laura — she just interviewed at Oracle.”Linda understood then what I tell mentees today: No career is a ladder, and sometimes sidestepping or zigzagging provides the greatest of professional advancement. My first career was in sales (selling Scuba gear, of all things!). It held a great deal of promise and I was up for a promotion — but in this case, expanding outward into a new industry was both the bold and better move.Six weeks later, I was at Oracle headquarters: 20 Davis Drive in Belmont. After an initial screen, I came in to meet with the Chief Cultural Officer, Larry Lynn. He was well-known and one person even warned me that he could put you on the spot by asking forward questions like “Are you smart?” and “Do you think you can handle Oracle?” His job was to spend an hour with the candidate to see how he/she reacted to a rough-and-tumble environment. Maybe it was something I said (or didn’t say) but I passed the “test” with Larry Lynn and my offer letter went to Larry Ellison without ceremony. At Oracle, culture seemed to run the place.I ended up in the basement of 20 Davis, among the QA, development and support folk. It was Version 5 and 6 of the Oracle DBMS Kernel and you had to drop down to C-Shell script to do anything. I was assigned to UNIX and made my way through an organization of experts. My manager, Walter Lindsey, was a Computer Science graduate from Harvard and believed that anything was learnable. He shaped me culturally and professionally, largely by tasking me with things that seemed to border on unreasonable.Among these was object-oriented programming in C, but it truly spoke to me and Walter compelled me to read every book on it. I now realize how much I owe that tall, gangly blond from Harvard who took a chance on a quiet kid with not much more than her unbridled passion for tech.Years later and a few jobs removed, the experience of managing all types of information became that problem I could not let go. Though it was pretty radical in 1997, I embraced the idea that I could build a piece of middleware that accessed all types of data — structured and unstructured — and transform them into recommendations and insight while making the software smarter. No one had combined artificial intelligence techniques across mobile agents and machine learning was not at scale. My advisors said it was too ambitious, my professors said that the science wasn’t yet out of the technology and “venture catalysts” said I would never get the right team to build it.Despite the critics, I founded Black Pearl Inc. in 1997 and our Series A funding helped us build a beta of the technology. Merrill Lynch was our first customer and other top financial institutions like UBS, HSBC, Allstate and Citigroup followed as the company grew. Running Black Pearl really taught me that, as CEO, you only control three things: (1) hire leaders smarter than you; (2) articulate an easily-digestible strategic vision; and (3) chart out an uncompromising set of principles around operational excellence. There was also an unstated lesson in all of this that I couldn’t have possibly known before doing the job: you have to be an “A” student at all of them simultaneously.Learning to be a leader, especially in the face of adverse market conditions, was humbling but saying goodbye to my idea was even more so. While I might never replicate the magic of Black Pearl, I looked forward to a new chapter at IBM. In hindsight, the Analytics team at Big Blue ended up being one of the most strategic career moves I ever made.Putting one foot in front of the other and taking that next step is often what defines us. And, hearing Joe Guglielmi out even though I was happily ensconced in graduate Bioinformatics after selling Black Pearl, was that next step. Joe was dynamic, determined and charmingly deferential and he immediately engaged me to sell his company to IBM. We agreed that it was an asset sale — a quick in and out — a negligible six-month leave from Stanford…though I remained for four years.IBM’s strong AI and semantic web roots and catapulted me to MA lead. I worked with a team that drove the Cognos, Master Data Management and Information Integration acquisitions over a three-year period. I poured all the passion I have for technology into tackling the problem of how to grow an incubated business into $1B in revenue. I would still be doing it today if IBM was not a New York-based company. Ultimately, being a mom and seeking work-life balance curbed travel to and from NYC.IBM was gracious about my desire to stay in San Francisco and helped continue to define my career. One of the smartest people I met during my MA work at IBM was Sarah Friar, who eventually lured me to Salesforce. It’s strange that, in so many ways with Sarah and Salesforce, I now have come full circle. Sarah is the self-made, steely, successful, feminist-turned-businesswoman; a coach in every way, she is the Linda of my present.In fact, some of the best advice to my mentees lies in a panel I hosted with Sarah and the amazing Cathy Benko, Vice Chairman of Deloitte. Cathy and Sarah said, “Get off the ladder.” They were underscoring the idea that careers are a lattice and sidestepping is okay. I always add the reminder, “Just make sure to take that step!”All the while, I am reminded of the lessons that Walter taught me about being fearless and thinking boldly. Salesforce today reminds me why I fell in love with this industry in the first place: it is a place where people are emboldened by the possibilities of our own audacious contributions. Walter gave to me the power to share wherever possible — my career is living proof that by sharing our intelligence with one another we amplify its impact and help realize the future faster.The Customer Success Platform

For two days in May, 21 active duty and veteran service members traveled to the San Francisco Bay Area for our first ever Veteran Technology Trek. Trekking and tweeting under the hashtag The trek was oversubscribed, spanning two days and eight stops ranging from large companies to a high profile Bitcoin startup to a unique government agency focused on digital innovation. The following is a recap of our itinerary —We hope you’ll consider While it probably needs no introduction, For a startup that was founded less than 3 years ago, We had the pleasure of joining a class taught by The veteran employee resource group at We feel incredibly grateful for the hospitality we received during our two days in the Bay Area. Best of all, Applications are being accepted now and itineraries are being built for future VetTechTreks to Washington DC, Seattle and San Francisco. Please don’t hesitate to reach out to Product and Growth at SPARK Finance • Help companies hire veterans w/VetTechTrek.com • OEF Bomb Squad #NavyEODDeploying veterans to tech companies.

A common issue that occurs in initiatives that address diversity and inclusion is that, by nature of esoteric vocabulary and seeing the same people over and over again, they ironically become exclusionary. A word like “intersectionality” gets tossed around without being mindful of the idea that perhaps similar terms are not part of EVERY DAY vocabulary. There is nothing I want more than to have discussions surrounding this language and how it has evolved. I want to talk about how language is such a powerful tool in fostering a culture, though I understand that it can be so intimidating. So what can we do to fix that?If I say I want discussion, I should foster that, right? Going forward, I will fully disclose that I am not perfect, I am certainly not an expert, and I can only speak to my own experiences. Intersectionality, if the word is unfamiliar to you, is…well, it’s google-able and you’ll find some academic papers and list-icles and whatnot, but what it is to me is:orI had a good friend tell me, “When it comes to choosing between being gay and being black, being black always comes first.”The idea that folks with multitudes of identities HAVE to choose between one or the other highlights the pain points of intersectionality. It propagates this notion that while the simultaneous existence of your identities is impossible, you are still able to be criticized for each and every one individually. I personally choose to identify with “queer” before “Korean,” because outing myself as “Korean” or a person of color in a queer-space seems more important than the other way around. Which brings me to the main idea of this article: This article is not meant to be a direct response to Being Asian in the tech industry is a privilege. It is a privilege to fall into the cookie-cutter image of what a hard-working and studious employee should be. By default, to a workforce at large, it deems you “low-risk, low-investment, consistent payoff.” A lot of this privilege, however, is accompanied by the perception of being well-educated, upper-middle-class, AND Asian. It is the value that people place on you as a combination of all of these factors. On the flip side, I have found in some spaces that being Asian and speaking English without a Korean accent can trigger this response:First of all, you well-intended-but-ever-so-condescending boob, it is “You speak English This expands to the idea of blending privilege and intersectionality. As someone who is more masculine presenting, I have the privilege of being able to navigate several spaces in the tech industry without feeling like I’m going to be harmed. This presentation, however, is also tightly coupled with my gender identity (still figuring that one out though…genderqueer? gender-squigglyscribble?) which makes me feel like an imposter on many levels. If people find out that I’m not Several facets of my privilege always come accompanied with factors of intersectionality. It creates this really interesting, nuanced, robust, and complex ecosystem in my identity. Privilege and intersectionality, in my opinion, can be intrinsically tied and instead of feeling guilty about privilege or feeling like we don’t deserve it, it can be used to shed awareness and connect on a multitude of levels rather than just the demographic fields we use to count our diversity numbers.To a lot of folks, I have been or have become that token “we don’t know exactly what you’re doing…but you’re SUPER different but NORMAL enough to be cool” diversity trump card. I used to shy away from that label, but now I’m ready to own that trump card. I’m ready to use my privilege as leverage and intersectionality as common ground to be a better advocate and be a better ally. There is certainly a lot of work to be done, and there is every reason that I should feel discouraged, but showing up is so important. Being open to discuss is so important. Particularly, listening to the needs of those that are marginalized and then giving them the fucking cheat sheet to cross the line with you is so. so. important. So if you are, like me, in a group with power, let’s put it on ourselves to be better, show up, and support those who have not had the luck we’ve had. I will hold you accountable if you do the same for me.Developer in SF | 

It is without argument that the vast rise in number of mobile devices appearing in consumers’ hands and the impact of technology within our everyday lives has happened faster than ever imagined. As is the competitive nature of the tech business, manufacturers are flooding the market with devices left, right centre. Consumers have responded in kind by developing an insatiable appetite for the latest gadget. This has given rise to a number of side effects that is not bode well for the long term future of the industry.According to Our current addiction has done more than create a thriving industry that lines the pockets of tech giants. It has had a detrimental impact on our environment. As we throw away the old, replace with the new, we are contributing to landfills of technological waste — or in short e-waste. Currently, mobile phones are the biggest culprits followed by computers. Globally we are generating As mentioned, the shorter product lifecycles are probably being commercially driven by technology giants who want to sustain their profits. On top of this, phone retailers have somehow managed to coerce their customers into signing up to two-year contracts knowing a lot of their customers would be willing to pay hefty fees to upgrade halfway through. The barrier to entry is high due to the scale needed to compete as the likes of Blackberry and Nokia are finding out. The likes of Sony and LG have considered selling their mobile divisions in the face of such dominance. It may not look like it, but there is clearly a monopoly developing in the market and that goes without saying — is bad for consumers.We all want what’s best for the industry and the consumers that buy into because that’s what drives it. If we want to continue to innovate, maybe it is time we took on a new way of thinking…Deep somewhere within the Labs of Google’s headquarters, some of their brightest minds are working on Project Ara — a smartphone that allows you to only replace and upgrade the parts you need. The ultimate form of customization that brings new levels of flexibility for phone owners. This Google invention along with To be honest, with most things today this is entirely new just that it has received a lot more attention than before. PC Gamers for example have already been leading the way in the market, updating their graphic cards and hard drives as they optimize their stations for the best gaming experience. Even if they are not driven by environmental reasons, their approach to the technology they use is commendable.And now there is another industry taking this route, albeit still in its infancy — smartwatches. A company call No longer do consumers have to be sucked into the Overall the benefits are universal, and we should all make an effort to embrace this new technological movement.Tech Enthusiast who works in Marketing. Views are my own.

It may seem like I have the wrong job, but our statement-of-intent is to tackle VC by employing software-engineers, not associates.Before building anything we wanted to have some principles for how we develop the platform. Not an architectural vision or a software development process, more a few simple guidelines.These might seem obvious but they warrant over-stating. We want to focus our development efforts on bringing core proprietary value to InReach, not on re-implementing wheels. If this means paying more to have someone build and run something we could have done in-house, we consider their expertise totally worth paying for.But we’re just starting out. We haven’t hired anyone yet so the development team is, well, me. I haven’t even had a chance to build a ‘hiring’ page yet!What we have been doing is gluing together a platform for our own use. Iterating on-top of different data-sources and technologies to change the way we invest in companies.The interesting result of combining our principles and limited user-base is just how sophisticated a data-mining system you can develop while keeping under the free-tier of the Internet’s various PaaS / SaaS providers.Just as we’d advise our portfolio companies to do, we want to iterate on our core product and not try to scale prematurely. I wanted to mention a few techniques I’ve been using to keep us in the free-tier while giving us the ability to scale up when we’re ready.Depending on the hosting provider you tend to get a little server and equivalent across a variety of data-stores. The small instance can do a lot as long as you’re able to efficiently use the resources and, crucially, keep the behaviour constant. Users cause peaks and peaks cost money. You have to scale to your outliers, so avoid having outliers.Programming languages with good (or just any) concurrency abstractions help here but the tools I’ve found the most useful are:In particular, using a rate-limiter to normalise access to data-stores means you encourage yourself to avoid burst-y usage patterns. This will lead to partitioning workloads, which lend themselves to task queues — and so the virtuous cycle continues.Auto-Scaling. Resilience. Microservices.These are all other people’s problems. For now I just want to reduce the amount of time I spend on OPS and make sure my users (both of them) can use the system most of the time. Frankly I consider having to use Puppet / Chef a bit extreme at the moment (actually, I always have).What’s impressed me while building our platform is that the path-of-least-resistance to shipping to a single instance is the same as to your n’th. Using a Oh, but you can keep your microservices 😜Co-Founder / Partner / CTO @ InReach Ventures

After two days of high-energy, interactive workshops and problem-solving sessions at The conference, organized September 19 and 20 by World Learning in the eastern Algerian city of Constantine, brought more than 150 young civil society activists from across Algeria together with local and international experts in social media and information communication technology (ICT).Under the theme Communicating Success: ICT for Capturing Social Impact, the event aimed to promote exchange between the young activists and help them identify new ICT and social media tools to highlight social achievements and share success stories.“These young Algerians are developing innovative solutions to real problems they face in their communities,” Leah Bitat, World Learning field director in Algeria, said at the conference. “And in overcoming these obstacles, they can reinforce not only their technological and organizational capacities, but also their knowledge of communication strategies and techniques to better promote their success.”Participants reviewed issues they deal with as civil society activists, brainstormed potential solutions, and worked with nine ICT experts, or“SuperGeeks”, to develop and share their successes through mobile applications, e-communication strategies, media relations, and content development strategies for social media, among other methods.“Serving as a guest speaker, or ‘SuperGeek’, was like being a rock star!” said Chris Iverson, program officer for World Learning, who presented on the benefits civil society organizations can gain from using social media. “The energetic and intelligent Algerian youth maximized the most out of their time with us to learn about new ways of incorporating the use of social media and technology to make a positive impact in civil society. Working with the participants — enthusiastic, inquisitive, talented and intelligent Algerian youth — was by far the most enjoyable aspect of TechCamp.”Over the course of the conference, the activists developed projects include new online civil society directories, apps to help youth find volunteer opportunities, and ready-made communication strategies for youth organizations.According to participant Hadjer Tennah from Adrar, connecting with other young activists and the experts at the conference was an “awesome, life-changing experience.”World Learning organized TechCamp Algeria under the This is the third TechCamp organized in Algeria by World Learning following previous editions in Ouargla in 2013 and Bejaia in 2014. TechCamp is a global program consisting of conferences in more than 90 countries worldwide that connect technology experts with civic groups and young activists in interactive groups to identify technological means to overcome local challenges.World Learning empowers people, communities, and institutions to create a more peaceful and just world.

Young Thug has been called many things, but “the Slack of rap” is probably not one of ‘em. Nevertheless, Young Thug’s hard-earned ubiquity in 2014 was mirrored in the tech world by Slack’s impressive uptake, all via organic, word-of-mouth endorsements.A great human/product that you’re hoping will “win” in efforts at disrupting the Wall Street/male stranglehold on finance/rap.This one’s pretty meta, but the controversial startup that started out as Rap Genius and this rising Rap Okay, a different sort of “tech,” but funded by the Taste makers turned taste chasers, these behemoths in rap/tech are constantly clamoring for your attention despite everyone cool having passed or moved on long ago. Drake’s rushed signing of ILoveMakonnen is like Facebook’s purchase of Oculus Rift (anything to stay relevant with the kids!)Uber has been Young, talented, and likable; it’s obvious these guys are going to continue prospering, much like Airbnb’s inevitable path towards IPO.Your favorite rapper’s favorite rapper and your favorite blogger’s favorite platform are both subject to endless hand wringing about living up to their potential, despite consistently putting out hot shit!While Young Thug cites Lil Wayne as his primary influence, it’s hard to imagine a world where his kind of rap “weirdness” is accepted by the mainstream if not for the path blazing undertaken by Lil B. Along those lines, it’s hard to think of an app that has done more to increase people’s openness to removing the barrier between online and offline interactions (after proper vetting, of course). Both hugely positive developments IMO!Open Mike Eagle is a smart, funny, “indie” rapper with an ear for beats. Little Bird is a savvy, smart, Portland startup with a nose for network analysis!Product Manager 

Like junkies shaking down their Rolodexes for leads on more skag of a Friday night, anyone running a team or company in tech seems to be endlessly asking each other this.… we all tell each other and then promise to share any leads and shuffle on. Always Be Hiring! Why does it seem so desperately difficult?I sat down and collected some observations, mantras and received wisdom I keep hearing about working in tech, and hiring great tech folk, in order to figure this one out for all of us. What I found may surprise you: it doesn’t make sense. Consider the following propositions:Individually, I dare say these are recognizable as things people say, a lot. But most groups don’t make sense side-by-side.Reddit’s erstwhile CEO Ellen Pao even suggested they view negotiating salary as Talk of sticking to “market rate” sounds a little like collusion to not compete on price, so, let’s not say that. Because the There are good, but ultimately orthogonal, arguments against big pay discrepancies: it rewards slick negotiators, it creates internal resentment, etc. But why is this so off the table?But nobody apparently bats an eye at acqui-hiring good engineers to the tune of This brings us to Reqs for something like “software engineer” are almost by definition hopelessly broad. It’s like hiring an “athlete”. Just, an “athlete”. Reqs may be born from a real need. We need someone to take over these Python scripts and productionize our video recommendation process from it. But even in a no-nonsense small startup, the reqs turn into wish lists: Python experience yes; let’s say lots of it. R would be nice too. Is an advanced degree in math important? probably, put that down. Candidate should know Hadoop, Hive, Spark too and have a winning smile. And now adjust that for a big company filtering through a shared recruiting team. You get things like They become reqs for a unicorn, or nonsensical, and by asking for most everything they ask for nothing, and suddenly people who just fit some part of the bill apply. Why do we do this to ourselves?Just kidding — I have no idea what the answer to all this is.But, then I remembered a post by a smart person at a well-known tech company, which sticks out in my mind so much that now I can’t find to save my life. The gist was, sort of: attract talent by offering honest career growth. The conversation should turn around why a role would get someone from to the next career step on the scale of 4–5 years. It’s learning and professional network that are on offer in return for doing great work for market-rate compensation. The company does need someone to get a job done, and not merely contribute to the awesome culture, rate the kitchen’s artisanal froyo, and be deeply pumped about a shared mission to gamify a pet dating site.So, maybe that’s why we can go back to accepting that market-rate salaries are fine for everyone. As employers, we need to be specific and clear about what we need to get done and what skills that definitely requires. But equally we need to advertise what Candidates: be clear about what you can do and what you want to learn to do by the time you’re 4–5 years further on. Find a role that can reward your talent with growth rather than focus on money or title. The best talent can certainly demand excellent growth prospects.As far as I know this is the answer.By the way, do you know any great tech people looking for an opportunity?Director, Data Science 

John Berryman knows search. His work has focused on using Elasticsearch, Spark, and Python to analyze complex event categories and ever-changing inventory to help people discover events of all types that fuel their passions. We sat down with him to talk about his work on the Discovery Team, his hopes for growing Eventbrite’s recommendations engine, and his recent return to Nashville to join the new team there.Eventbrite has traditionally been a site that caters to event organizers. We provide them with a platform for marketing and managing their events and take care of the messy details of payments. But with 1.7M new events a year we have become the place where prospective event attendees are coming at a high volume to find upcoming events.The Discovery team is building new features at Eventbrite that allow our users to find events that they are sure to love. Ultimately, our goal is for Eventbrite to become a highly curated personal event planner — the place to go to look for what’s happening.I started out in Aerospace engineering only to find out too late that it was the math and the technology that turned me on. After leaving Aerospace engineering I worked for some years as a technology consultant and then as a developer in a database monitoring startup. As an engineer I learned enough programming to write code that worked — but boy was it ugly. At some point I invested time in teaching myself better practices, and along the way I picked up some good mentors that helped me hone my skills. Eventbrite caught my attention with their entrepreneurial culture, and the exciting projects that I thought I’d be a great fit for.In many ways we have a more difficult problem than other companies. Unlike the products recommended to Amazon users or the movies recommended to Netflix users, our events have a relatively short shelf life. Sometimes an event has already ended before we have collected enough user behavior information to make a sound recommendation. Because of this we are building recommendations as a combination of both collaborative-filtering and content-based recommendations. But how do we combine these approaches? How do we find the right balance? These are the problems we are currently solving.We just finished building a new service for serving up recommendations. I feel like it’s a pretty novel implementation. We are using Elasticsearch to store several different signals and quickly serve up related events recommendations.More-o-the-same. We’re on the cusp of several neat opportunities in Discovery. We are getting more sophisticated with our techniques, and I’m looking forward to seeing this make an ever more meaningful impact in how our users interact with Eventbrite.One of my old buddies from my days as a consultant approached me to see if I was interested in coauthoring a book with him about building relevant search applications. After a couple of weeks putting together a proposal, we pitched it to Manning and they excepted! We’re done with 8 chapters and have 3 more to go, The question contains the answer. I joined because of the I like the dynamic nature of Nashville right now. Things are changing, changing fast. And things are changing in the right direction. There has been a huge influx of outsiders just like myself into Nashville which is giving the city quite a mix cultures and ideas. This is most obvious in the quirky, artsy neighborhoods that have popped up all over the place since the I last lived here. And along with the influx, Nashville is becoming more connected to other big cities. Eventbrite itself is based in San Francisco with a growing satellite office in Nashville (it’s only other office in the U.S.); so Eventbrite itself is an example of this connection of Nashville to the national scene.But I would be remiss to not mention the old school Southern charm still present here in Nashville. I often think about this in the evenings when my family and I stroll around my South Nashville neighborhood and look at historic homes. This also made most obvious in Nashville’s fantastic music and food scene.As a technologist, I think this links back to the active and changing nature of Nashville’s tech scene. Although I’m still getting wired into the community, there is obviously no lack of things do with meetups organized for any variety of technologies and topics that you can imagine. And as for the changing nature, I feel like everyone is looking forward to new opportunities that are unfolding in Nashville right now. For an outsider looking in (me), Nashville appears to be abuzz with entrepreneurship right now with several groups working to spur on new, young businesses. And Nashville is getting attention from outsiders besides me — we got Google Fiber — that’s gotta be a good sign, right? I wonder what will happen next!I hate to keep treading on the same points — but connection to other tech hubs is going to drive new interesting things in Nashville. Here I’m especially thinking about the connections that we’re establishing with the venture capital community. Historically, venture capital has focused attention on large, historically entrepreneurial communities — Silicon Valley, New York City, Boston, Chicago, etc. Our newfound connectedness is driving more attention (and money) to the good ideas coming out of Middle Tennessee. What’s more, technology is making it ever easier to connect. Want a face-to-face meeting with a venture capitalist? Hop on a Google Hangout and say “hi”!Meet the Britelings. The team of engineers, designers, marketers and more who help power live experiences. Want to join us? Eventbrite.com/jobsMeet the team building the platform powering millions of live experiences a year.

Trying to self-learn tech skills is already difficult. Add on a full-time job Sound familiar?What if you came home from work and felt rejuvenated and excited to sit down (or stand up) and start learning again? What if it felt like you were moving forward every day, way faster than before?Here’s how you can become motivated to learn tech skills and stay focused… even when you spend 8+ hours/day at work.When you come home from work all exhausted and feeling down, learning a new skill is not as easy as just sitting down and powering through the work.If you dont feel like learning, youre less likely to retain anything you try to pick up. Studies show that our emotions can have a detrimental impact on our learning abilities.Do you have a recurring thought that comes into your mind every time you come home and think about self-learning? A reason for why you dont want to learn today?Think about it.For example, are you Start to notice those recurring thoughts that accompany your resistance.Begin to question them.Are you really so tired?If you are, then try going to bed a little earlier. Make changes to your routine, adjust your wake-up time, or get a sleep monitor. Check your diet and add more vegetables.But stop for a minute and consider that maybe, just maybe, you use your tiredness (or whatever your recurring reason) as an excuse.Then ask yourself what emotions are tied to that excuse. What do you feel when you say those words?Resignation? Defeat?Emotions are closely intertwined with self-regulated learning. If your excuse comes with unhelpful emotions, then you may fail to retain information even if you try to power through with the best intentions.For example, instead of “Im too tired” try “Im a powerhouse of productivity” or “I will have a breakthrough today”.It sounds cheesy but it works.Your mindset has a direct correlation with not only your success in learning, but also your motivation.What do you do when the rest of your life keeps interrupting your learning time? How do you make the most of the precious, limited time that you have allocated to learning tech skills?Ask yourself the following question:By external interferences, I mean distractions (irrelevant to the task at hand, like a phone call from your friend) and interruptions (multi-tasking, like trying to answer emails while listening to a podcast)For example, I am easily distracted by Twitter alerts on my phone.It’s especially bad when Im in the middle of learning something new. The pieces are still forming in my mind, and theyre fragmented. There’s a lot of room for distractions to get in and push those pieces apart.I hear the alert, pick up my phone, and if the preview looks interesting, I immediately swipe to view it.I lose my concentration with what I was doing . When I come back to the problem at hand, I have to get re-situated. Sometimes I even need to re-learn something I was just starting to comprehend.Your brain relies on connections between the visual parts of the brain and your prefrontal cortex in order to perform well on a task (such as learning). When you are interrupted or distracted, these connections are compromised and your performance drops.We can’t anticipate or control every circumstance. But we For example, I am able to stop the distraction of Twitter alerts from happening again by identifying the trigger event: the alert popping up. Then I plan an alternate reaction: turning the phone on silent and putting it away so I cant even see the screen.What are some alternative reactions you can have for predictable circumstances, distractions, or interruptions that get in the way of your productivity?What would it be like, if you could get excited for learning on days where you dont feel like learning? If you could make the most efficient use of your limited time and stay focused?Here’s your homework:The eBook is free. You can get it Joyce advocates for career transitioners, specifically for those going into tech roles like coding, content marketing, or product management. In this beautiful, amazing digital age, it IS possible to forge a new path based on true interests and self-learned skills rather than traditional degrees! Joyce can be reached at I help self-taught coders transition from their full-time jobs into freelancing so they can be their own boss and experience freedom and flexibility every day.

This is what Wikipedia says about ecosystem. I am going tell you a bit about the Techstars ecosystem, with all its living and nonliving components.OK, we can all agree that startups can be described in three words — blood, sweat, tears. Or to be precise, I quote Giuseppe Garibaldi: “I offer hunger, thirst, forced marches, battle, and death.” I feel free enough to add — In order to thrive.OK, so a thesis is set. So, under which influences is the Techstars-London-fall-cohort-2015 modeled? (For simplicity we will refer to it as Techstars-London-2015. Or just Techstars…It’s TS).So, lets start from the obvious — What can I do when I love smiley people. How is this relevant to TS? When you are an associate in TS, and you are working for 11 teams, the fact is that you are partly paid by the quantity of smiles. You smile to me and I will make a hell of that competitor analysis. And this cohort has the most irresistible ones. Smiles, not competitors.One of the main cultural components are We went from the culture, to the rituals and came to the last invisible part of the ecosystem — Short espresso lover. Wannabe ballerina. Currently exploring London wonders. Business Associate A collection of articles from The Startup Magazine and, writers we like on Medium. Covering startups, tech, business entrepreneurship, and working life. Web: 

I want to make things again. So I’m excited to announce that I am pivoting from tech lawyer to product manager, actively looking for my first PM position with an innovative technology company. It’s time to get back to my engineering roots and follow my passion for technology. In what’s now been firmly established as a rite of career passage, here’s my Medium post explaining why.Don’t get me wrong; I’ve enjoyed being a tech lawyer and product counsel for the past eleven years. And, granted, a good product counsel does solve problems and is, ideally, an integral part of most product solutions. But the legal role is too removed, can be too much of a drag on innovation, too cynical and creatively conservative. A lawyer’s job, much of the time, is thinking about worst case scenarios, about limitations. Instead, I want a more direct relationship with technology again, and the designers and engineers who are making things. Although I don’t miss my prior software engineering career, I do miss the creative, problem solving aspects of it. At this stage of my career, having worked closely with so many PMs at Twitter and Google, I know product management is the ideal role for me.I’m a deeply curious person. In fact, if there’s a single thread that runs through my career and my hobbies it’s that: How do things work? What would happen if I did X? How do these two seemingly unrelated fields interconnect? Is there a better way? I’ve always been that way.As I’ve mentioned After getting a BS in electrical engineering, I went straight into graduate school for computer engineering, focusing my research on artificial intelligence (mainly neural networks) and fuzzy logic on a stipend from the Air Force. This was 1993–95, when I basically lived in the computer lab I shared with a PhD student and learned to love Sun Solaris and XWindows, the first GUI I had ever used; I went straight from DOS to Unix, thankfully never seeing Microsoft Windows until my first job a few years later. I became so enamored with Unix I made it my vanity plate in 1995 (little did I know I’d be using a phone and wearing a In grad school, circa 1993, two of my fellow computer engineering grad students and I decided to start a company called Soft Technology Corp. (great name huh?) that would, among other things, offer high-speed internet access to cable subscribers. However, we were in the wrong place at the wrong time — it was too early and none of the cable affiliates in upstate New York could see what we saw. In hindsight, we probably should have moved to Silicon Valley. But it was my first taste of the startup life, one I revisited several times in my career.I worked as a software engineer for another six years. Working at IBM gave me the practice and discipline I needed in designing and writing reliable, low-level AIX-based chip-testing code for a large corporation. But it was the more dynamic, fast-paced experiences working as an engineer at various startups that shaped my engineering career: the touch-screen kiosk code for UMS; WAN and VOIP gateway software at Technologic; and TCP/IP acceleration software at Circadence. I loved collaborating with whip-smart engineers on tight-knit teams who just wanted to make something great. But I was also increasingly concerned about troubling developments in technology policy.So it was this passion for technology that motivated me to go to law school in 2000: I wanted to help shape technology policy in some fashion; more specifically, to help protect consumers from misinformed technology policy. In the late 90s, it seemed like most lawmakers, judges, and lawyers didn’t understand technology. Both the Telecom Act and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act were fairly new and introduced a lot of uncertainty for technologists. I was inspired by people like I was fortunate to land at Fenwick  West, a well-known Silicon Valley firm, where I counseled technology clients large and small in IP, privacy, and cyberlaw. Fenwick’s generous pro bono policy allowed me to devote some time to policy work; for example, counseling organizations like the By 2009, when I was ready to leave Fenwick, there had been a number of positive developments in tech policy. And the lawyers I knew at the EFF, ACLU, PK, et al had things well in hand. So I went in-house. As an audiophile and cinephile I was thrilled about joining Dolby, who, at the time, was making some interesting moves in both the mobile space and theater technology. However, that stint was short-lived. Because as early as 2008 I had set my sights on Twitter (I caught the Twitter bug early in 2007). I used to walk down the street from the Dolby offices and inquire about legal openings at Twitter. But they were too small, hadn’t even hired their first lawyer yet. So I waited until they hired a general counsel — Despite the consumer advocacy impetus behind going to law school, I’m glad I ended up as a product counsel at companies like Twitter and Google, companies whose ethical and policy compasses were influenced by their close ties to the EFF and Public Knowledge. I loved working with I’ve been lucky. I got to work at Twitter when it was going through insanely rapid growth and exploding popularity. I counseled the ads/revenue team and the sales team from day one of Twitter advertising. I learned a ton about startups, product development, design, advertising, and, of course, myself. Almost every PM I counseled was smart, dynamic, passionate and fun to work with. And they worked hard.Seeing my product manager clients at Twitter and Google do their jobs and interact with other stakeholders gave me some idea of what the role entails. In talking to my PM colleagues since, and learning about the role in preparation for this transition, I’m excited about its varied nature, and the way customer goals inform design and technology. I very much want to contribute positively to a team that’s collaborating to create a useful, unobtrusive product that improves customers’ lives.I like that product managers wear different hats, that they coordinate and collaborate with engineering, design, user research, data analysts, marketing, sales, customer support, business development, and legal. I had to do this as an in-house tech lawyer (from an admittedly more cramped perspective). The idea of doing this in a more positive capacity appeals to me.I have both an organized side and a creative side. So I like that product management is both creative and project/schedule/milestone-oriented. I can think big picture and stay focused on the details at the same time. I like that it’s both social and analytical.Product managers often have to find a middle-ground and synthesize differing viewpoints. As a lawyer, I have plenty of experience integrating viewpoints and finding constructive compromise. And I enjoy doing so.I can speak both engineering and legal. If you follow me on Twitter, you know that I love keeping up with technology innovation. Most of my Instapaper articles are about tech and new media; tech podcasts are my most listened-to category.In short, I’m excited to move from thinking about what’s possible (engineering) or not possible (law) to what seems impossible.After leaving Google last year, I spent a few months in More importantly, I’ve been brushing up on my technical skills, and really enjoying it. In the past few months I’ve learned Swift and explored what’s new in XCode 7 (I threw together a few iPhone apps back in 2009 but my legal career kept me from polishing them for public release). I’ve learned Ruby on Rails, which didn’t exist the last time I wrote code. And I’ve refreshed my knowledge of some old favorites: Perl, C++, PHP, Python, and JavaScript.For fun, I’ve been noodling around with both a content-blocking app, an experiment with the Twitter API, and an app that leverages the FourSquare API. I have no idea if any of these projects will see the light of day. But it feels good to be playing in the sandbox again.On the advice of a colleague, I took the Preparing for this transition has also meant reviewing the data analysis methods and Excel formulas I learned so many years ago in college (back then we used I’ve been talking to a few startups who are disrupting various aspects of the legal industry. I’d be thrilled to join a legal startup since legal technology services and the legal services industry in general are so ripe for disruption (as Axiom and others have shown). But my interests and passions are broad. My first priority is being part of a team that’s building something great.At the risk of sounding too Pollyanna, I’d like to join a team that’s creating a product that makes the world better in some way, improves people’s lives. Listen, I’ve read It doesn’t have to be a startup. My experience at Google reminded me that a large corporation can foster innovation.Having just moved to NYC for personal reasons, I am focusing my search on NYC opportunities.As cliché as it might be, I agree with Steve Jobs; the transistor — and everything it has given rise to — is the most disruptive and awesome tool humans have invented — There’s never been a more exciting time to work in tech. As Although someone will have to give me a chance to prove that I can make the transition, with my engineering background, my passion for technology, and my experience working directly with product managers for the past six years as IP attorney and product counsel, I know I can hit the ground running.I’m excited to make things again. It’s time.Product/tech nerd, lawyer, writer, former software engineer. Tweets stuff 

So, one day my dad approached me for a new email address, and as a techie, I had to help him. Hence I created an email and also managed to find a complex password for dad. Naturally, I was concerned about security! The After a year, when I was home for Eid, dad came to me with the same pocket diary and asked me to open his mail. I gave him my laptop and told him to access it himself — again my concern was his online “privacy and security”. But my dad’s reply was shocking and funny . “How will I know this?”, he asked. I asked him how he accessed his mail frequently for the last one year. He said “I go to some Internet cafe/booth and give the password to the cafe boy. He will do rest for me.” I asked him out of curiosity, “ What about the security of your email? Will they sign out?”At that moment, I realised that like thousands of old generation men and women, my father too has no idea about signing out or cookies! When I visited the near by Internet cafes, I realised that most of my dad’s friends as well as many others, follow the same method of giving the password to the cafe boy.So, I started teaching the Web to students, teachers, auto-walas, friends, house wives, relatives etc. When I visited and talked at many Engineering colleges in Kerala, I found that most of the so-called engineering students thinks that they do not know anything about technology and are wasting their time in college. When I asked them, “Do you know I told them to think about the 65%* including their own mother, grandmothers, father, friends, neighbours who don’t know what a computer is or how to turn it on! And asked them to teach what they know to others. Today, when I hear stories of how they changed others’ life, I feel happy and proud. And it has inspired me to write this note, even though I am the laziest cat in writing.Now I feel accomplished when I watch my father proudly teaching his friends how to sign-out their mail or what a mac book pro is! Today, when I write this note on Engineer’s Day in India, a feeling of satisfaction and achievement envelopes me as I realise that I could play a role in changing many lives. I am thankful to WebMaker campaign for An Ideapreneur who codes and design experience. FOSS Lover. Mozillian. UxDesigner. LiteratureBuff. OnlineFreedomGuerilla. Evangelist. Organizer. Gourmet. Hodoph

Traveling. It’s great. We all do it. Sometimes, it’s for pleasure. Other times, it’s for business.At all times, however, you’re incredibly susceptible to identity theft. So, how do you protect your digital identity while flying friendly skies?By taking a few precautions.Maybe you’ve never heard of a VPN. Well, now you have, so take this seriously, friend. A VPN allows you to create a secure connection over a public network…essentially adding an additional layer of security. While you’re at it, don’t use a free VPN, spend the few dollars to make sure you’re truly protected.You know what hackers like? Hitting you when you least expect it…like a few weeks after you get back from your trip. Just in case, you didn’t use a VPN or you still unfortunately got hacked, be proactive and change your passwords and pin numbers when you get back home. That’s sure to anger a few criminals. ;)Don’t check your bank accounts and credit card statements on your laptop that is connected to public network. Just don’t do it. Instead, check them on your phone via an app or while connected to your cell network, not the wifi network.You’re in Prague about to hit the club and what do you do before you leave the hotel? Lock up your passport. Don’t take it with you. In fact, don’t ever carry your passport with you while out and about, exploring the city. Instead, use This post was written by Stay in the loop with all things The Missing Piece to Your Virtual Wallet

Nearly a hundred and twenty years ago, two brothers, Auguste and Louis Lumière revealed something so shocking that it is rumored to have caused widespread panic amongst it’s onlookers. In January 1896 the very first There is no doubt that the way we interact with technology is changing. It’s also no surprise that it’s changing us — how we eat, sleep, talk and think. But will technology change the way we experience mystery? As you can imagine this question is one I find myself asking often. Will the craft I’ve practiced tirelessly become ubiquitous, replaced by a piece of technology far more interesting? Will my life’s work thus far be distilled to a novelty? A cute, antiquated hark back to a simpler time. Quite often I come across this now famous quote from science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke:The last of Mr. But in my opinion, although technology changes the way we experience the world it will never replace our love of wonder. David Mamet says it perfectly in his play The technology around us can be as incomprehensible as magic. Even as wonderful. But we’ll continue to chalk it up to a series of screens, chips and algorithms. But like a good film, novel or piece of theater we’ll never cease feeling a sense of beauty and wonder because we realize there are some experiences that require no explanation. The tools we use to tell stories might change, but the experience of a good story, one that evokes magic, can never be replaced.Mentalist. Mind Reader. Charlatan.

Today was my last day with Mrs. Natalia Piermeyer.It has been an amazing journey with a truly wonderful woman. Natalia took a chance on me well before I had a track record worthy of being wed to one of “U.S. News and World Report’s Top 200 Wives in Tech.” But she did, and I have learned so much over the past 36 months.The experience I gained from Natalia, her money manager Dave, and her yogi/life coach Neo have helped me climb to a level of husband I could only dream. All while serving our marriage’s vision of “quality relationship through locally-sourced materials.”The question I’m The answer will blow you away. I’m moving in with a YouTube improv sensation I met on Tinder, and her roommate/lover (whom she met on Scissr).Now hold on, “meh”-sayers. Many of you might say I’m out of my mind. Some of you may even be men. How can I give up being a husband with literally everything going for him on a lark? And I do mean “literally,” grammar nazis. There is not a After conversations with some of my wife’s hottest friends and my son Brock’s most millennial teachers, I decided that a “side piece” was more about the thrill of the rush. And I had that rush with Natalia — when she cheated on her first husband with me.This might be hard to explain. Natalia and I tried everything to get things exciting again. We even fool around in her office. There was head in the Business Development division… head in Operations. It got to the point I was turning down positions. I just felt I was meant for more!They are super So what’s next for a Personal Trainer turned Pharmaceutical Salesman turned Startup Crowdfunder turned Investment Banker turned Trophy Husband turned Meat in a Millennial Panini?I walked away from being a top level husband to follow a dream. I walked out on a wife that other men dream about. And, heck, I may not end up even liking Stacey and Jennnn and the weird hyper sex drive that millennials seem to have. But I’m taking a chance! And deep down, I think that the significance of one man’s journey says a little something about the way even the smallest dreams really can change the world, really. Let that marinate for a while.Don’t be afraid, people. One day I was flying high in a wonderful husbanding career. Next day I “swiped right” into a threesome. Now you go do it!Editor @ “It’s Not That Serious.” Closet optimist, a pantry pessimist, and not a writer — just enjoying putting thoughts on Medium.A place for humorous takes, silly rants and musings about popular culture. Our days need more laughs. Let’s reclaim the word “bemused” from the bad guys.

Now-a-days, it seems like there’s a new shiny gadget, app or service being launched every hour, and it looks like the pace is only picking up. Being a technology enthusiast myself, I’m often near the front of the line to try them out. But it’s becoming clear to me that searching for the value in these new tools takes time. Time that can negatively effect more important aspects of our lives, and sometimes it’s easy to forget that technology is actually here to make our lives easier. That’s why I’ve found it extremely important to regularly audit the tech in my life to make sure it’s actually adding value. Below are three questions I’ve found useful in my continuous audits. I hope you find them valuable too.________________________Thinker • Social Entrepreneur • 

Tomorrow will mark 2 weeks since we joined We have been heads-down building If you have any TS or digital advertising questions, feel free to reach out P.S. Any of my New York friends, Co-Founder @ adHawk. Xoogler

Een verhaal over algoritmes, leiderschap en super-instincten.Ha Robin,Algoritmes zijn het nieuwe goud. Met liefde en aandacht opgebouwde start-ups vertrouwen er volledig op om hun ultieme doel te bereiken: opschaling. Waar we bij de start van Facebook nog zelfstandig onze vrienden benaderden om te linken, krijgen we inmiddels automatisch suggesties geserveerd…of we geen vrienden willen worden met de opa van een collega?Je vraagt me: Staat de groei van online organisaties gelijk aan het verliezen van persoonlijke liefde en aandacht?Is de paus katholiek? Eten kinderen liever snoep dan spruitjes?Online groei en ontmenselijking gaan hand in hand. Maar hoe erg is dat? Er is namelijk zoveel meer. Dezelfde algoritmes die ons voorspelbare en onpersoonlijk voelende suggesties serveren, stellen ons in staat om oude vriendschappen digitaal te onderhouden en nieuwe te maken. Dezelfde app waarmee we leuke filmpjes voorbij zien komen en vrienden nabij houden, zorgt voor een suffe verslaving waar we op vakantie vanaf moeten proberen te komen. Dezelfde dienst die ons helpt als een local te leven op vakantie, concurreert de plaatselijke hotelier kapot. Ons online gedrag verandert ons slaappatroon, de manier waarop we naar de WC gaan, onze sociale etiquette, hoe we in de trein en restaurants zitten, ons taalgebruik. Tegelijkertijd versterkt onze online verbinding de democratie — denk aan de Arabische lente — , speelt mobiel internet een belangrijke rol voor de economische ontwikkeling op het Afrikaanse continent en vormt de smart phone momenteel een life line voor vluchtelingen. Om maar wat te noemen.De exponentiële groei van online veroorzaakt van alles in ons leven, ten nadele en ten goede. En niemand had de veelzijdige gevolgen vooraf kunnen voorzien. En zo wel, hadden we het dan anders aangepakt? We zijn geïntrigeerd door wat online ons kan brengen en daarmee bevinden we ons in een experimenteel continuüm van trial en error. We gaan vooruit en zullen onderweg moeten bijsturen. Maar wie, waar naartoe, en op basis van wat?Zijn na Griekse filosofen, Chineze keizers en Franse verlichte denkers, Silicon Valley entrepreneurs de regisseurs van het wereldtoneel? Zijn het de online thoughtleaders Jony, Mark, Daniel, Jeff en Larry die onze levens van democratie tot WC beinvloeden? Zijn we, samen met het grootste deel van de wereld die Apple, Facebook, Spotify, Amazon en Google gebruikt, niets meer dan de figuranten in hún toekomstdromen? Of is er geen sprake van figuranten en sterspelers, maar zijn we een zwerm vogels die gezamenlijk de beste bestemming probeert te vinden? Waarbij we onszelf van koude wind afwenden en doorvliegen naar waar de warmte vandaan komt?Biologen hebben lang gezocht naar Super-instinct. Klinkt goed toch?De mens is continu uit op vooruitgang. We weten niet wie er stuurt en eigenlijk ook niet waar we naartoe gaan. Maar ik blijf vertrouwen op óns super-instinct, onze menselijkheid. En nu Mark Zuckerberg binnenkort voor het eerst vader wordt, zal het zijne ongetwijfeld hard worden aangewakkerd om de goede kant op te blijven vliegen.Onze super-instincten als ontwerpers, schrijf me dáár eens je gedachten over. Met een pen misschien wel.Groet, MerijnMeer lezen? Eerdere edities van onze briefwisseling vind je hier:design strategist at Fabrique.nlA design agency’s thoughts and things

Typically, only time you will read about Pakistan is when a terrorist attack happens or when Pakistan is blamed for a terrorist attack that happened elsewhere. This time, it is totally different.Although, the tech sector in Pakistan on the whole is nascent, it continues to grow at a steady rate. Chances are one of the mobile applications on your smartphone, or at least a part of it has been developed in Pakistan. With an increase of focus on entrepreneurship by the government through initiation of an And this is where NASA’s International Space Apps Challenge ’15 comes in.This year, teams from Some 200 sources for data sets, services and various tools have been put at the disposal of the participants. A diverse group of competitors; tech savvy citizens, scientists, entrepreneurs, experts, educators, and students have come together here at Institute of Space Technology to find solutions and answers to questions relevant to space exploration and broader subjects that impact life on Earth.Today, the participants have networked among themselves and have completed their teams. They also got to attend two keynote sessions, and had the chance to discuss their ideas with the mentors. Tomorrow, they will begin developing their concepts into practical applications. We are really excited to have all of these brilliant innovators with us and truly wish that one of these teams goes all the way to the finals!We are tweeting live from the venue under the hashtag #SpaceAppsISB. To follow global conversations, look up #SpaceApps. Find us on Here are the links to the photo I know a little bit (or more) about almost everything. Student. Working on a would-be-startup. I read too much, think way more, and speak sporadically.

A month ago, I crashed the Churchill Club’s I gravitated towards two trends in particular, Rebecca Lynn’s prediction of the decline of traditional banks and Bill Gurley’s prediction of the end of auto nation. Yet, I feel most trends missed the mark with their robotic car and virtual me jazz. Though I wasn’t invited to join the panel, I thought I’d chime in with my two opinionated trends.How is this not already a thing? Soon politicians need only switch between their porn and local twitter feeds to see how their constituency is feeling in real time. A quick citizen informed vote and it’s back to favoriting porn gifs. The future is looking hot indeed.It’s plainly obvious that male techies have largely been designing apps not just for the 10% but also to replace their moms. Be it on-demand house cleaning, cooking, laundry or taking you to soccer practice, we’re only beginning to see what is surely a growing trend.Editor at Absurdist, Writer at Message, Product Designer  Cassette Jockey 

Coming from Germany, I immigrated to California last year in order to start my next tech startup. Being 51 of age, I was prepared for the worst regarding ageism because I read a few articles like yours before. To my big surprise, I realized I’m in good company as a founder around 50. I visit a lot of meetups, speeches, events etc. for startups, both here in San Diego as well as in the Valley, and when I look around I always see all age groups. I love my Clojure meetup here in San Diego and also there I meet people of all age groups, all very enthusiastic about the Clojure programming language. At least to me, I don’t feel discriminated here at all and I didn’t feel discriminated in Germany either. I think — as with most things in life — it’s all a question of how you feel inside. There are some people who think of themselves they are “old”, and that just radiates to the outside world and other people will avoid them. As long as you feel energetic, smart, full of determination and drive, the world will embrace you no matter how young or old you are. And you can approach the tasks at hand in a more easygoing, more active and less reactive way because of your life experience. :-)Serial Entrepreneur, Founder of antsle

Yes! The model for the culture of most SV tech companies is college campus life.I like finding things, noticing details, and thinking about what it all means. Currently Riker Studio with Jason Riker. Formerly 

This happens way too often in gaming and, I dare say it, in tech companies too. Manchildren put in charge by other manchildren.Brit in the US and geek of many colo(u)rs, who says Beta and water wrong, apparently.

Age brings experience which simply cannot be acquired through any other means but tech companies don’t want that kind of experience.They want the 22-year olds (or preferably even younger) fresh out of college, with minimal obligations. Tech companies will proudly do their laundry, give them food, and make sure they make their dentist appointments on time. The company becomes a pseudo-parent and what child wishes to disappoint their parent?So the children give. They give everything they have and when they are utterly exhausted, they push themselves to give more. They expend their ambition and life-force at the tech company until age and experience teaches them to do otherwise.Younger people, sometimes gladly, become part of the machine that is Silicon Valley, adopting its values and culture as if it was their own. The core of a young person is not yet fully formed, it is still malleable. But perhaps because of this, the office becomes the symbol of individualism and autonomy the young person is often desperately searching for.Look at the quirky posters, look at the individually named rooms, isn’t that fun, isn’t that unique? We begin to identify and associate with these objects, these colors, shapes, and fonts. We form our perception of self inside this massive machine because we are often loose, we are yet without roots.Young people believe they have an abundance, even an over abundance of time, and it is happily handed over for a branded t-shirt, for a place to belong.As we age, we begin to protect this time more fiercely. As life teaches us over and over how fleeting and rare this time is. We find new ways, new places to belong, and families, obligations, or simply desire, prevents us from giving of ourselves completely — or at least in the way SV demands us to.I write about people.

I work in the heart of San Francisco in an open office with incredible engineers and talented designers. When you walk through our front door, the first thing you’ll see is a big bright yellow painted wall. My desk is perfectly centered in the middle of the room, lightly covered in sticky notes with brand reminders, and displaying the latest issue of Bitch or Ms. Magazine. While I was (and will always be) an east coast queer feminist, advocate and organizer, I’m also now part of the 3% of Latinxs in the tech sector. This is an ongoing journal of my experience.Before my 18th birthday, I was told I wouldn’t graduate from high school or go to college and that my dreams for a successful future were far from my reality. As a young woman, I was navigating through a complex and negative environment that cheered for my failure. Yet I realized that I had to make a decision: let those around me dictate my future or redefine it for myself. I chose the latter.But what does being a queer Latina with a tough teenage life have anything to do with tech? Everything. Our mere presence is an act of revolution. So when I landed on this new path, I made a promise to never close a door behind me; that any obstacle I removed from my path would never be thrown onto someone else’s. As someone who struggled a lot, I knew that my journey didn’t have to be as hard as it was. And now that I find myself in the tech industry where young women of color are rare, I wonder how I can make the journey less difficult for others.We know about the many factors that contribute to the stark reality of diversity in this field. Across the US, incompetent educational systems and lack of representation make many young people feel that landing a tech job is unrealistic. Truthfully, it’s also just really hard to aspire to join something that has distanced itself from people like you. Because when tech companies fail to ensure diversity within every layer of its thriving system, they replicate the very system that we so desperately need to dismantle and that’s not exactly an enticing option for oppressed communities. But there are options.After I accepted a position at a startup, I was relieved and honored to join because I knew I could offer something valuable to the work. I also quickly realized that I now play a role in a larger geographic and cultural community of underrepresented people in tech. And our presence is meaningful. According to the My identity is an asset and the lack of diversity is not a reflection on our abilities, worth and value. Women of color are informed, creative, and tapped into the communities most likely to use so many of the services and products that companies are innovating or reinventing. So if you’ve been considering coming into this field, please know that you’re needed. You don’t need to code because startups need communications, public relations, marketing, legal, and administrative team members too. And over the next few months, I will be sharing my experience and learnings from the sector.revolucionaria in tech

In 2002, I co-founded Frey Norris Gallery, an international art gallery in San Francisco that I helped run for ten years. In one sense, my partner and I accomplished something great: we created an appetite for serious art collecting in a city with lots of money but a weak taste for it. And we built a solid international business, developing a network of artists, art professionals and collectors on six continents.So why did I feel like a failure? Our vision was to be part of catalyzing a new generation of art patrons who had for the most part made their wealth in technology. Sure we sold some art to some technologists, but we didn’t really find art champions amongst technologists. There really aren’t many. Not only has this not happened — Marissa Mayer’s presence on the board of SFMOMA not withstanding — but having time to reflect, a new perspective dawned on me. This was not a difference in preferences or consumer behaviors. The reason for this disconnect between the “Technorati” and Bay Area visual artists was shaped by a large and growing gulf in values.Now there are as many kinds of artists as there are tech-born millionaires. Truthfully, San Francisco is not a global art capital, in the way that it is a leader in design. There are a lot of reasons for this.One chief difference is whether a community views dissenters, contrarians and critical thinkers with disdain or gratitude. Many great writers I’ve admired over the years grew tired of the art world’s culture and withdrew or were marginalized. I think here of I’ve found San Francisco’s art community is fractured and often unwilling to unpack their passions for a general audience. Although this intellectual insularity is to some degree true of the art world everywhere, it is less so in more fringe places like Dubai and Mumbai, where there is a greater eagerness to develop loyal audiences. This elitism leads to a failure of storytelling. Many of the art world big wigs I’ve met scoff at smart people who are eager to learn but who haven’t mastered the specialized vocabulary or sets of concepts in contemporary art. Intelligent and wealthy friends felt put off by pretense and condescension; they avoid galleries and feel they need PhDs in art theory to enter them. The attitude they encountered is unnecessary. Growing arts audiences requires patience, empathy and a willingness to state things clearly and simply.For all its impressive vitality and variety, another way in which our Bay Area art community cripples itself, is through a deep suspicion of wealth, fame and influence, along with anyone who can claim any of these achievements. I see precious little celebration of local artists doing well. The notion that if one or two younger artists broke through to fame and fortune locally, they might lift all tides and make a “middle class” artist’s career more likely; this idea is just plain alien. I don’t speak here of a “trickle down” effect, but rather a branding problem. The brand “San Francisco Art Community” is far weaker nationally and internationally than the reality (good news actually); a few big “winners” would change this. In my experience, the opposite is true of L.A. where they have master marketers galore. I tried to be part of “bigger pie” conversations in San Francisco and again, feel a failure that they didn’t really manifest. And while this suspicion of success can be in some ways healthy — skepticism can lead to new thinking — it can also be stifling, with the net effect that major artists’ careers almost never launch in San Francisco, nor are they sustained here.The cliché of artists leaving for New York or London or even L.A. to gain greater career traction was true in 2000 when I arrived from New York City and is still true today in 2013. My former business partner and I did all we could to stem this tide and offer decent income and recognition for our artists. She still does that good work. When I arrived, I naively hoped that San Francisco would become the next evolutionary step forward, the next great art capital, born from the most creative and intelligent population in the United States. In my opinion, the tendency of artists to leave San Francisco has less to do with cycles of boom and bust (high rents are often blamed) than with a fragmented and self-defeating culture that refuses to galvanize to pursue common betterment and larger audiences. And frankly artists often exhibit a palpable dearth of trust in people who have the wealth and power to provide things like cheap or free studio space, or patronage. I still today watch artists blame and demonize the wealthy and technology elite; their mistrust towards them remains the greatest impediment to the floating of ideas that could blossom with the resources these successful entrepreneurs might bring to bear. The conversations, in my experience, rarely even start. There are a lot of idealists in tech who would I’m guessing love to spark something transformative. To use the cliché, many of them live for “disruption.”One great exception to the Bay Area punching below its weight has been the At the risk of over-generalizing, the technology community comes across to me as far less pretentious, but they are bursting with hubris, in a good way. “We will change the way the world works” is not an uncommon attitude. Tech startup creatives are pretty darn good at projecting “reality distortion fields.” And the willingness to try new things, the ethos of good ideas can come from anywhere, the putting aside of egos in the pursuit of fast experiments and the creation of a well evolved new solution; I just see a lot more of this in technology than art. Tech companies break stuff and make mistakes publicly and aren’t stigmatized for it. Ask any artist who has had a failed show and poor (buying) audience if this is true in the art world.Some of the criticisms leveled at the technologists who increasingly populate San Francisco aren’t unfounded. Case in point: there is a real lack of appreciation for the humanities among our technologists. Linear thinking, quantifiable results and sometimes weak empathy can also be common. Objects that do not present with self-evident utility are dismissed (again, another values disconnect, as artists often aim for or embrace ambiguity). And as with any nouveau riche, there can develop a smug sense of entitlement along with the money and access to power. But I cannot help but admire the sheer force of will of the entrepreneurial spirit; the knowledge that anything you touch can be made better, with the right application of creative, collaborative thinking and follow through. Some of the world’s greatest thinkers and writers on the very nature of creativity call the Bay Area home, including Serial entrepreneur and CEO of famo.us, There are no simple solutions or silver bullets for the current situation. Together, artists and tech entrepreneurs have the intelligence and raw creative talent to invent whole new paradigms of art making and paths to viable art careers. The Bay Area has this talent in spades. At the intersection of these two complementary communities, who have so much to teach and learn from one another, is a chance to invent new ways for artists to thrive and technologists to support them. How this might happen is a thrilling creative challenge we might all tackle as a community.Good People and Bigger Pie

A few weeks back we published a post aboutIt would be super awesome if we motivated all tech companies to push towards being the leader of our “Top Female Hiring Companies” Stack. If half the world is made up of women, companies are only hurting themselves by not improving their gender diversity. A diverse and well-rounded work force is the most capable and innovative in our eyes. Diversity isn’t bullshit; it’s a competitive advantage. If you’d like to take a look at the “Top Female Hiring Companies” Stack, you can download the 500 Miles app here:At 500 Miles, we help college students and professionals discover breakout companies and launch their careers. We get up each morning to provide people with the information they need to find a company where they enjoy working and can make a significant impact.We would love for this post to spark up a deeper conversation about why the diversity numbers are what they are and how we can move towards a greater female presence in the tech world. Whether you are a job seeker or employer, please do chime in.The leading mobile platform for talented candidates to discover, evaluate and engage with high-growth tech employers.

I don’t have an issue with Dan’s choice to move to Linux, and I understand and sympathise with his reasons for doing so. It’s a path that several friends have gone down — and one which I However, something about Dan’s motive for switching to Linux doesn’t sit well with me, because I believe it’s based on a fantasy: a fantasy of liberation, a fantasy of regaining control, which for most people is nothing more than an illusion.Here’s what Dan says:The counter to this, in Dan’s mind, is the freedom of Linux.However, unless you’re a coder — and, in fact, quite a specific kind of coder — the idea that Linux is a tool which delivers control to the user is illusory. In fact, you are handing control of your tools to a group of people with whom your relationship is more like vassalship to a feudal lord than something which belongs in the 20th Century: the developers who actually create it.Linux is great for tinkering. But unless you can actually contribute code, you have no more control over it as a tool in your life than you have when buying a Mac, Windows machine, Chromebook, or whatever other platform you choose. You didn’t make it. You can’t influence its direction. And it’s actually sometimes harder to fix if things go wrong.Instead, you have to get someone who can code to fix or change your tools. If you’re rich, of course, you can pay someone to write some code. Or, more likely, you have to petition the Lords of Code to change things, which may — or may not — elicit any response.How is this different — how is this If I stop using Linux, what effect does it have on anyone who develops it? None. Even if a hundred thousand unhappy Linux users stop using it, no one will really care.That’s not true of commercial tools. The mass rebellion of Microsoft’s customers against Windows 8.1 has led the company to reintroduce elements like the Start menu, despite it being arguably a step back. Could the same happen with Linux? Sure, there’s always another distribution to use — but that just means handing control to a different set of unaccountable coders.If you don’t create a tool yourself, or you don’t have a direct relationship with the people making it where you can ask for and receive changes, you don’t control it. And it doesn’t matter whether the people who made it are corporations with customers, fluffy non-profits, or backroom coders. They control your tools, not you.I do content strategy by day, and tech journalism by night. Like Batman, but without the outfit (mostly). The day after yesterday. Today.

It’s been more than 3 years since I left my assignment on a fast attack nuclear submarine and I can say without hesitation it was the most important professional experience in my life. Some days were more challenging than others: I would deploy for months at a time, couldn’t call or email my family or friends, and no one seemed to figure out how to deliver a Seamless order under the polar ice cap. In fact we even ran out of coffee…When I began thinking about my transition from the Navy, I wasn’t sure how to write a resume, how to contact a recruiter, or what I should say in a behavioral interview. But what I did have access to — and in hindsight, I didn’t even realize it — was the You may already know this, but veterans tend to stick together. Maybe it’s part of our basic training, but the camaraderie developed as a result of shared experiences — and often hardships and struggle — is felt long after we take off the uniform. And while we might be harder to pick out in a business suit or in a startup hoodie, our sense of community doesn’t fade.That’s our We’ve already run three treks: two to San Francisco (The meetings are When we have our lineup confirmed our host companies get recognized. Some of these companies may be established leaders in their field and have strong ties to the defense industry or may have an established veteran employee resource group.And some of the companies we visit are tech startups that need experienced, operationally-minded managers to help Regardless of a company’s current affiliation with veteran initiatives, hosting VetTechTrek provides a We know how important social media is to getting the word out, so we try to do our part. Follow us on Twitter Employers and hiring professionals may be familiar with the benefits that the Department of Veterans Affairs outlines ==What you may not be aware of is that almost all veterans have But nearly And they probably did so halfway across the world.We are still finalizing the details about our next trek to NYC on November 12th and 13th, so please don’t hesitate to — partner Deploying veterans to tech companies.

Two reasons why there are fewer older people in tech: older people are perceived as less nimble in learning and less in touch with newer technologies. If this effect is true, it should only really affect hiring decisions in engineering.The second reason is that most tech companies are young, which means it doesn’t have the time to have older senior people who’ve been at the company for 10 or 20 years. There are many fewer older people job hopping or looking for new careers in a brand new company, or taking career risks by joining a startup tech company. New grads looking for jobs will always drastically outnumber older people.If you consider both those reasons, it should be obvious that naturally there will be fewer older people at young companies, especially if the senior position people (founders) are already taking the spot of the old people. Old people really should be the ones starting the companies.Founder of Instapainting.com and the A Manufactory network of artists.

Damn… I’ve always known things were shitty out there for women in tech as a matter of fact, but this piece drives it home harder than anything I’ve ever read. I’ve never really I truly appreciate that you wrote this, and admire your strength.Human, novice programmer and game dev, lifelong gamer, design enthusiast, general technophile, and professional barista ☕️

You never drive as carefully as when there’s a body in the trunk. You’re not a dangerous driver, you spunked that from your system in the unpoliced roads of your childhood town, but your Ford Focus But tonight you play it safe. What with the body and all. You imagine yourself a balding man with a ghost of moustache, trundling home from his job as a freelance health and safety advisor.Sitting at a suburban junction, the lipstick red of stoplight mesmerises until you realise that the banging, like the neighbours during one of your late-night jams, from the boot has stopped. Is this good or bad? Good — passersby will less likely suspect you’re hiding a body in the trunk. Bad — the body might have died.It’d been a proper ballache forcing the body in. He’d been no help. He ended up with his knees around his ears. The college student who’d sold you the car six months back had ‘fessed up at the time about the lack of luggage space. She’d blushed like she was admitting some sexual perversity. She’d been gifted the car by parents celebrating that their investment in private education had resulted in a daughter gaining a place at Stanford. Within a week of freshman life, she’d put the Ford on Craigslist. You were already paying a quarter less than the parents had paid and when, on the immaculate lawn outside her sorority house, she’d admitted the trunk lacked space, you’d haggled the price down even further. Boy, you’re a badass.A squad car crawls around the corner like a drunk collapsed on all fours. You follow its progress. You want to look away but you’ve caught the eye of its police-officer, a mean-looking woman, and to break her stare would make you look well guilty. A car sounds its horn. A green light. You drive on.You turn Drake down. It’s unlike you to feel this emptiness in your chest … like bad cocaine. How’d you get here? Not the suburb, Google Maps had sorted that, but cruising on a Saturday night with a body in your trunk? You ought to be in the Mission district, listening to slam poetry, uploading dope images to Instagram. You measure out your worth in followers, not the increasingly fucked-up choices that recent experiences have forced.Life had turned freaky on your first day at Scouter (pronounced — ‘scooter’), a start-up that aimed to do for motor scooters what Uber had done for taxis. Had you felt nervous sitting in the foyer of the Tenderloin building? No. You’d followed the receptionist, pretty, Scandinavian, on Twitter and had spoken to her about the account’s images of her revealing Halloween costume. Sure, your line manager, Laura, seemed both like she had a broom up her ass and sucked constantly on the sourest of Skittles (these impressions were later proven true) but as soon as she’d taken you up one floor and you’d realised that everybody working at Scouter was a less attractive version of yourself (albeit in different shades of gender and ethnicity — this is 2015, bitches), the vague tingling sensation in your stomach that other, weaker tech workers may have allowed to develop into nervousness, was dismissed. Laura said she’d introduce you to your co-workers during tomorrow’s morning briefing as you’d arrived too late for that today.‘Let’s visit Marty. He’s our Psy-Ops dude,’ she said. You asked whether this was true and she paused. A beat. ‘No,’ she said, shaking her head. ‘It was a joke. He’s your PTPM. Part-time Project Manager. Think of me as your mom and him your dad.’You didn’t like the idea. Your father had been an accountant who’d loved shooting deer more than spending time with his son. You could never place what your mother was like.Marty was important enough to have his own office. You weren’t impressed, though, because the guy possessed a sufficiently fleshy jawline to be in his mid-forties and if you were still working on the first floor in twenty year’s time, you’d film yourself leaping off the Golden Gate. You only need check that image of you in a suit at a friend’s wedding to confirm you were destined for the fifth floor, at the very least. 4.5k hearts that’d received.Laura introduced you as Marshall’s replacement and left.‘Check this out,’ said Marty. ‘You like soccer, bro?’As a twenty-something American with a funky haircut and a closet full of ironic t-shirts, of course you liked soccer. But you didn’t like to give too much of yourself away to strangers. Marty turned his iMac around so you could see its screen. A green approximation of a soccer field. Shitty representations of soccer players running about.‘Soccer Manager,’ said Marty. ‘I’m Liverpool. Top of the EPL. Sit down.’He swung the screen back.There was no chair. This was a management technique. You’d experienced worse. You were water-boarded once. So you stood awkwardly, thinking of the Scandinavian receptionist (Had she followed back yet?) as Marty clicked away.‘I’m emailing log-ins for our social media accounts. One of your myriad duties will be to respond to criticism, tweet nice things about Scouter. Like as a member of the general public. Here,’ he said, swinging the screen around again, ‘Here’s one of my favourites. Marshall, may he rest in peace, did a top job with this profile. Just beautiful. Dude deserves respect.’A serious-looking woman with cropped hair, holding up her left arm and tensing its bicep. The arm was covered in heavy tattoos. Marty pulled back the screen.‘She’s mad popular,’ he said. ‘But not always work-appropriate. A reply, check this: You didn’t worry. You needed a piss. If Marty wasn’t bothered, you wouldn’t be. The success of your Instagram account meant you understood the extent of the legions of jealous asshats out there.In your car, a thump from the trunk. You turn Drake back up. You smile because it’s good that the body isn’t dead. You’re guilty of kidnapping, nothing more (torrents aside). And, should you ever be caught, any court, any jury, Laura even, would realise all this had been done reluctantly and like in self-protection. Honestly, it’s not as if you’ve killed anyone.Would things have turned out differently if Marty had taken the tweet more seriously? Maybe. Who knows? One thing you knew for sure — the Scandinavian receptionist never did follow back.Buoyed up by knowledge of my greatness, indulged by waiters, favoured by the women in the market and adored by passers-by.A tech serial

It’s true. What’s also true, unfortunately, is that while there are front page examples of individual women who have made it big in tech, as a group, women in tech are severely underrepresented in the media. We only seeWhile it is essential that we make sure there Sukhinder Singh Cassidy, Founder and Chairman of Joyus, stated it eloquently in her It’s intolerable to remain invisible. But it can be just as damaging to perpetuate a negative narrative that promotes the untrue idea that women in tech are flailing. Michelle Peluso, CEO of Gilt, rightfully points out that “the network of strong, talented female tech leader is alive, well, and inspiring. It’s high time for those stories to be shared.” We have to take ownership of the narrative, to give women role models and success stories. They are out there. Yes, there should be more to draw from. Yes, there’s a lot to be done to make that the norm and not the exception. But what’s in our control to change right now is our ability to lead by example.There’s a widespread need to build awareness and clear pathways for girls and women from diverse backgrounds at every level of their education and career to become a part of the tech ecosystem. Susan Lyne of BBG Ventures summed up the need for a concerted and persistent effort in order to change the ratio of women at top tech companies during a Julie Samuels, Executive Director of ● ● ● As Julie tells it, one senior editor lamented “you can only reach out to Sheryl and Marissa so many times.” These women have done a phenomenal job telling their stories and being out front as experts. But there are so many more women we can celebrate who are leading the way in an industry that drives our economy and our future. There’s often a reticence on the part of women to go on the record, and I believe part of that can be overcome by embracing our own successes and learning how to convey that.I wish this were an issue contained to one industry, but the reality is it’s reflective of the wider trend of lack of representation of women in all kinds of media. Women are featured in news coverage and media far less frequently than men. According to As media trainer and founder of Glen Echo Group, Maura Corbett, points out, the incessant pace of today’s news cycle and the fractured state of the media landscape can be frustrating or seem impenetrable. This environment, she rightfully points out, also creates ample opportunities for us to strategically reach and connect with new audiences. Because we do our day jobs well — run companies, design tools, launch products — it’s ever more essential that we contribute in meaningful ways to conversations about our business. By doing so in a diligent, deliberate and consistent way we change the image of women in tech.Seeking out opportunities to speak with press may feel self-serving or of little interest when that aforementioned day job can be 24/7. But it is about so much more than one story. It’s about ensuring that we consistently see powerful, smart, creative women in the media. We have a responsibility — for ourselves, for our businesses, for the next generation — to speak up and be seen as the experts we are. It’s our responsibility to recognize the women who are already leading the way, and in doing so widen the path for those who will come next.Bloomberg Media, Bloomberg Associates, former Commissioner NYC Mayors Office of Media  Entertainment

Bolt Threads is engineering polymers inspired by spider silk. While this makes for convenient decorating around Halloween, we’re about so much more than spiders. To really understand In the first half of the 20th century, the palette of materials available for textile applications expanded. The invention of nylon in the 1930s created new textile properties that were so beloved that the first sales of nylon stockings caused riots.Nylon and the materials that followed, like Lycra and Kevlar, are made using petrochemicals. Today, we know that there is a host of issues with these hydrocarbon materials, including their reliance on petroleum, their persistence in the environment, and the toxic chemistry used to manufacture them.Yet even with these issues, petrochemical-based materials are still omnipresent. Unlike other industries, tOur Engineered Silk™ platform allows us to create We’re also eager to address the environmental and health issues associated with current textiles. Approximately 20% of global industrial pollution is attributable to textiles, making it the dirtiest industry on the planet. In particular, textile manufacture relies heavily on chemicals which we now know to be bio-persistent and bio-accumulative, meaning they build up in our environment and our bodies over time.At Bolt Threads, our completely new material creation pipeline gives us the opportunity to make responsible choices based on much more information than was available during the previous waves of textile innovation. Our fresh start and our ability to tune material properties will allow us to avoid many chemicals currently used to manufacture textiles and imbue them with performance properties. We’re working toward To learn more about Bolt Threads, visit chemist and chemical biologist by training, building something 

I actually do not completely agree with you on this. I love technology and I love the internet. It has connected me to things and to people I could have never been able to had it not been there. It has given me wisdom and knowledge that only years of experience could have. And I cannot imagine a world without it, simply because I feel it does more good than harm.I also like to joke around and say that if all the classic poets and novelists (such as Virginia Woolf) lived in today’s society, most of them wouldn’t have committed suicide, simply because the internet enables you to express in ways you could have never before expressed yourself. People who have social anxiety or extremely introverted personalities finally get a medium to connect with other people without getting overwhelmed.But here is the thing, if something is a powerful force in your life, its implications on both sides of the spectrum (good and bad) are equally as powerful.There is one thing that technology fails to do that human interaction does for us: tuning into emotional cues. Intuition, such as when you (sometimes) just know who to trust, is built upon years of observing and dealing with social and emotional cues. You cannot observe people’s expressions or body language when you are connecting with them on technology. Perhaps you could say that you don’t need to, but my god you do.We are not living in a world of robots, and at some point you have to survive… not only with other people but also with yourself. Which means you have to develop social skills and coping strategies that can only be developed through real world social interaction.Let’s say years down the line we do actually start living with robots, and technology suddenly becomes a deeply entwined part of our lives (not that it isn’t already… but it hasn’t reached its potential yet), we will all be very, very lonely. Intimacy, warmth, touch, looking into someone’s eyes… these are all important aspects of psychological and even physiological health. For a baby to develop normally, the first thing it needs is a mother’s touch. Which means that intimacy is as important to our survival as food and water.Maybe you can say that we are interacting socially, but technology fills up the holes that were previously left unattended in the past. That could be true. I mean, if a moment is an awkward moment, it is still going to remain awkward with or without technology… might as well have a phone to divert your attention to.But there are a lot of holes that need to be dealt with, not filled up. We all need to learn how to be there for each other, to fill up the deeply rooted holes of loneliness, that technology can never, ever fill up.You said there is nothing wrong with ‘capturing a moment’ when someone posts a picture of their next fancy meal on Instagram. There is absolutely nothing wrong with it. But posting a picture on Instagram of the food you are eating also opens up a whole lot of self esteem issues. Suddenly, your self esteem is based on whether someone tagged you in a post, or on the number of likes you get on your picture… or simply on showing the world about how good a time you are having. That is a lot of energy being wasted on things that aren’t really that important.And lastly, the most important negative point of technology:It is making us careless. Careless about other people’s feelings, careless about the person who is sitting next to us. It is making us INDIFFERENT, and no one is questioning the indifference, perhaps because no one really understood its value even in the past. Earlier, it was a given that you had to attend to the person sitting next to you, almost like a social ‘obligation.’ That is wrong too, simply because it was an obligation, but not something that was valued.So what am I trying to say from this?That we need to realize what technology isn’t doing for us, and what it actually is stripping away from us. And then, we need to realize the importance of the values that it is stripping away from us, and then recognize that we still need those.Technology is fucking awesome, but let’s not forget that we are all still human. If we don’t respect nature, intimacy, courtesy, and humanity, I’m afraid we will all, too, become robots.I don’t want a straw. I want real human moments. I want to see you, I want you to see me.

Tech has no monopoly here. Unfortunately. :-(Digital media educator, writer, evangelist; transplanted Southerner; teach newbies to ride motorcycles. #rabblerouser #pushy

[1:37] Margaret: HopeLab just by way of background is an organization, a non profit. It’s an operating foundation actually started by Pam and Pierre Omidyar, the founder of eBay and his wife.[1:47] Margaret: It was started actually with an idea that brought together technology and kids and young adults. And the idea was hatched by Pam Omidyar. She was working in a lab, working with kids with cancer. She was also a gamer. And she was really interested in the potential of using a video game to try to help kids with cancer and to try to solve a problem that they were discovering with these kids which was they would get into remission and they would need to take chemo drugs for a couple of years and they weren’t taking the drugs.[2:20] Margaret: The project that really first launched HopeLab became a videogame called ‘Re-Mission’. And now ‘Re-Mission’ and ‘Re-Mission 2’ are both out there on the market.[2:29] Margaret: So, ‘Re-Mission’ was the first of a series of efforts that have kind of defined HopeLab. Which is really using technology to try to improve health and wellness for kids and young adults.[2:59] Margaret: HopeLab is a research based organization, so there was very very rigorous research done on the intervention. And it demonstrated that kids who were participating and playing the ‘Re-Mission’ game were actually having much better outcomes, much more adherent to their drug regimen than the kids who weren’t. And they did FMRI brain imaging studies that showed a big difference between the way a kid’s behavior changed in the kid interacted playing the game, vs just receiving the information passively.[3:29] Margaret: So, if I’m the doctor telling you just, “Unity, you’ve really got to take your meds, because we don’t want you to relapse.” It was very very different activity in the brain than when you were playing the game — attacking the cancer cells — using the chemo as your sort of weapon in participating in kind of your own care.[3:47] Margaret: So, really interesting insight. The lessons that were learned in ‘Re-Mission’ were taken into HopeLab’s next project, which was the development of a physical activity.[4:17] Margaret: So ‘Zamzee’ was created. ‘Zamzee’ was created as an effort to get kids to be more physically active and get all kinds of kids, but particularly low income kids and kids who are at risk of sedentary behaviour.[6:27] Unity: Great, well you know, one of the things that I think would be an important maybe lesson to share, is the power of having a big mission as your foundation. How have you guys leveraged that or focused on the mission as sort of the core starting point for what you’re doing with ‘Re-Mission’ and ‘Zamzee’ and maybe some of your, the future things you’re working on?[6:57]: Margaret: Well it’s a great question. I, you know, I feel very passionate about this and I’ve been trying to sort of think about how to bring a mission focus together with early stage companies and capital and think about taking on big, risky, audacious projects. The work I’ve done in the past and the work that I’m doing at HopeLab.[7:15] Margaret: HopeLab started with this big idea, not that crazy an idea, that technology and kids could be brought together and that technology could be a powerful agent in helping improve health and wellness for kids and young adults.[7:49] Margaret: So, HopeLab has that big mission. And a big mission of really trying to work in new groundbreaking areas of scientific research.[14:03] Unity: Yes, so you have this interesting collaboration with Welltok that I think would be really interesting to talk about.[14:19] Margaret: When we went into the development of ‘Zamzee’ we were looking to target a really big market. Kids, kids who need to engage more physical activity which is a lot of kids. And one of the big challenges we then faced, we’re an organization that sort of prides itself on experimentation, was how we could do something that would actually scale much more broadly.[14:40] Margaret: And the idea of trying to take this product out to the market; commercializing and marketing a product was not something HopeLab had done or actually had the skills and abilities internally to do.[15:26] Margaret: Maybe one of the other insights we had is that maybe actually this was a product not a stand alone company. And so we talked to a number of different companies from health plans to healthcare providers to a couple of platforms and it turned out that Welltok was actually interested in the potential of acquiring the product and then working with us to integrate it into their platform.[15:50] Margaret: And so we made a deal with them to actually have them do the acquisition and basically take over the running and maintenance of ‘Zamzee’. But that we would actually work with them as HopeLab to do a couple things. One to integrate it onto the Welltok platform and second to continue to do research.[17:31] Margaret: You know it’s one of those fantastic conversations where I started having a conversation with Welltok and they said you know, we have actually been looking for, and spent the past 6 months actually thinking about how to find, where we might find a kid, a kid focus product that we could integrate. Because we believe we believe that we need an offering for the entire family. And it turned out that that timing was great for us, that we were looking, and they were looking, and they were looking for what we had.[23:28] Michelle: So Welltok is a health optimization platform and a little bit about that — so basically, we’ve created a platform in the industry that helps organize all the different resources we’re seeing now. Condition management programs, mobile apps, communities content. Brings it together, creates personal health itineraries for consumers, and then helps them optimize their health by rewarding them both intrinsically and extrinsically for doing various activities.[24:33] Michelle: And so, we had actually been looking for a while at different companies and technologies in the market that tried to focus on children and help them address physical activity and increasing their physical activity and I have been a big fan of ‘Zamzee’ for a couple years and then when Margaret came on board I thought this would be a great time to talk about having a collaboration.[25:59] Michelle: We’re actually phasing it later this year. Actually ‘Zamzee’ will be available for our clients and then we’ll be working on the full integration early next year into our core platform.[30:20] Michelle: I guess I would just say make sure you’re focusing on solving a real problem. I feel like I still see a lot of really interesting apps and websites that are kind of cool and fun in the healthcare space, but at the end of the day are they solving a problem a population health manager really has?[30:45] Michelle: Because if they are, those are the type of partners that we’re looking to bring into our ecosystem, so we can help our clients solve key challenges that they have.[30:56] Margaret: I echo that one, I think that’s a really important one, but I would also say really be mindful. The word frictionless was used a lot downstairs in one of the sessions I was just in and every time I see something where you have expectations but the person or consumer is going to enter a lot of data, do a lot of things, take a lot of, basically go through a lot of clicks, I immediately turn off. And I think really understanding what someone’s — we talk about workflow — what someone’s life flow is like, and thinking about how these things fit into the day of a person and kind of what they bring to them, as well as what the person needs to do to take on a complete the task. So thinking about how you can both engage and hopefully delight the consumer is really important.[0:05] [0:15] [1:37] [1:37] [1:37] [2:20] [4:17] [11:20] [14:03] [29:10] StartUp Health is a global health innovation company dedicated to growing and scaling startups focused on transforming healthcare. 

This week at Techstars was all about getting to know the other Awesome companies next to NomNom’s desk were hustling the whole week. First day induction session. Little did we know we were going to spend the whole afternoon running after clues in a scavenger hunt! It was the beginning of a very intense week.Max Kelly MD at Techstars shows off his scavenger hunt skills.The next week will be all about mentor madness. We are getting ready to meet over 80 incredible mentors and investors in a speed dating style session. More office hours and deep-dive sessions are in the diary too. Want to see more pictures and updates? Follow NomNom on See you next week for the next update!SofiaFounder and CEO NomNom Insights All your customer feedback in one place

In 2005, a boy was born named Kyle Russell, and former lawyer Michael Arrington and entrepreneur Keith Teare created 

During the mid 1800s, a wave of Americans risked everything in search for precious gold and to make a name for themselves. Like those Americans, I rushed (by plane instead of horse or train) to hunt for wealth and to become a great software engineer. This is a quick overview of my first year alone in California.During the first month, I was to find an apartment, feed myself, set up PGE (energy  gas), and gather my basic needs. My first challenge: become an adult, alone. To put the situation into perspective, I recently graduated and didn’t have any money saved for moving out. In fact, I was not expecting to move from out of state. The original plan was to live at home with my parents, while I worked in New York City. After accepting a job offer from TuneIn, I was granted a generous relocation package that was just enough for a month.Walking at night, from downtown Redwood City to my apartment, hidden emotions were always triggered. At every block, there was a household where I could hear laughter, smell steak on the grill, or even see children running around. The ability to cope with loneliness was my second challenge.I always missed my family, friends, and my girlfriend. The only way to beat it was to keep my mind busy. So I found different ways to keep me busy and stay connected with my family and friends. Facebook Messenger kept me up to date and connected with my friends. In order to keep in touch with my family, I had to get into the habit of calling during the week. My weekends were dedicated to road cycling and riding my fixed-gear bike.Another way I went about dealing with being home sick was going back home. During the first year, I went back home for Thanksgiving, Christmas and Mother’s Day. After a while, traveling back home began to feel less of a vacation and more of just being back. This made me realize that I didn’t really miss home. Instead I missed the experiences that I had with my family and friends.As a an extrovert, I needed to build a new crew. Creating a new network of friends takes time and patience. If you find yourself trying to create new friends, do not rush it. Rushing friendship will come off to others that you may be needy, crazy, or even desperate. My third challenge: making friends.Friends don’t fall out of the sky. You have to look for them! The good thing is that you are not alone, there are plenty of people in the same or similar situation. Some outlets where I have met my friends are at work, meetups, conferences, parties, and through other friends.Save, invest, and forget about those uptowns (Nike Air Force 1s) you wanted to buy. Entry level software engineers are paid well here in Silicon Valley. Depending on how much your rent is, each month an engineer could have a good amount of pay left over. Challenge number four: money management.Learning about how to invest in a 401k is confusing and a bit stressful at first glance. Figuring out how much money to stash into a savings account can be overwhelming. Deciding to put money into long term stock options is a mental trip itself. However, these are important decisions that can better prepare you in the long run. My first goal was to pay off credit card purchases and create an emergency net. At the same time, I made sure that I was contributing to a 401k plan while I had a job. After I completed my first goal, I then began saving a piece of my paycheck into a savings account.Just having a job as a software engineer didn’t satisfy my hunger. If anything, being in Silicon Valley grew my hunger to become a better engineer. It feels as if everyone you run into either works for a tech company, has worked for a tech company, or knows someone that works in a tech company.Here in the Bay Area, there are plenty of hackathons and meetups. You will learn from the events you go to and from others that are also attending the event. My first hackathon was at the Wix.com office in San Francisco. At the overnight hackathon, I arrived alone and left with a full wolf pack. I built my own team by convincing others that my idea was worthwhile. I learned a good amount about Wix’s developer tools, and I also learned about the Firebase (a real time database library).Meetups are hosted by different tech companies and by engineers ranging from different skills. Usually, serving pizza and beverages, you get to surround yourself with like minded individuals looking to learn and broaden their knowledge about new technology and overcoming hard problems.Those are my tips for surviving the first year in California and staying on track to find that lump of gold. I hope that from reading this you are able to either connect with my experience or have gained some type of awareness of what it is like to be on your own and reaching for your goals.Next on my agenda is to convince my long distance girlfriend to move in with me and join me on this West Coast adventure. Wish me luck!New Yorker — Engineer — Music Head — LatinoStories and thoughts from minorities working in tech. Submit yours today.

Thoughts become things, things become thoughts.I’d been looking forward to the My strategy was to join all the I like to say ‘plans are just the things from which we deviate’, and my deviations included an opportunity to mentor with I introduced myself as someone who has been a software engineer for a long time, and pulled the punchcard out of my badge holder owning that I’ve done everything from Another wonderful deviation from my plan included two ‘speed mentoring’ sessions, where people rotate from table to table for introductions and conversation. Along with the great conversations there were many more ‘punchcard selfie’ moments. Several young women asked if they could hold it, as if it were a fragile fossil from days gone by. Punchcards were designed to be durable; I love the feel of the card stock and can’t bring myself to laminate it.By the end of the conference, my lucky punchcard became a thought. The card has seen many jobs and technologies come and go. It’s worn, complete with coffee and wine stains, but it is durable, perfectly functional, and can still be used to create technical outcomes. It’s my avatar, my elevator speech.During punchcard moments, I would share that when the card was punched I could not have imagined the tools I use today: .NET, Node.js, React, NoSQL. I was involved in early efforts to transfer CAD drawings between IBM locations through the emerging I challenged my younger colleagues to imagine what their punchcard moments would be like when they return to the conference in twenty years (a keyboard was one of the popular answers… “you mean, you used to type???”). I know I’ll be there, and I’ll still be in tech.Thank you ABI, for an amazing conference, and for the opportunity to connect with these bright and capable women. See you next year!If you’d like to connect over a punchcard selfie, please look me up.Adventures in tech: programming at IBM, tech consulting in the bubble, .NET ‘app dev’ at Microsoft, couple of tours in corporate IT, table flipper, teacher.Women learning the hard way. Submissions to 

A couple of months ago, I had the chance to be selected for the “Well, it depends on the version you want to hear. The official one is that I am a 22-year-old French engineering student who is passionate about tech stuff and meeting inspiring people. But what most of people don’t know is that I am one of those kids who has no clue what they want to do later because engineering means everything and nothing to me at the same time.When I applied to be an intern at Techstars London, I had just a vague idea of what it meant. I still had classes but I knew that I wanted to do something challenging during this summer.The interview process was long. Very long. I think I saw six different people, and did everything from technical tests to personality interviews. One of the questions I remember was : “What is the most exciting thing you did yesterday?”.After being accepted, I had mixed feelings. I was excited because I knew I would meet awesome people and be challenged like I had always wanted. But, I was also scared. Scared to live for the first time in a foreign country. Scared to not meet the expectations. Scared to fail.It’s been more than a month now since the program started and, well, it’s been awesome! I’m working among eleven amazing startups (you can see the current batch You probably noticed the “part 1” in the title. If you haven’t figured it out yet, the all point of the program for me is to find out what I want to do with my life. Surely, I’ll finish my first degree. I’ll go back in January for my last six months. Then, it’s complete darkness. Phd? Start-up? France?To be continued…Associate A collection of articles from The Startup Magazine and, writers we like on Medium. Covering startups, tech, business entrepreneurship, and working life. Web: 

Becoming an Associate at Techstars is not necessarily what you think it is. It’s not an Internship, it’s a stepping stone for great entrepreneurs who are figuring out their next move. The program is for entrepreneurs who want to create an unfair advantage for themselves by cultivating an environment, surrounding themselves with incredible talent, i.e the other Associates, the 10 invested teams, the 100+ mentors, the weekly founder stories, the MDs  PMs and being part of the Techstars Family. Once you’re in, you’re always a part of the family. Unless you do something incredibly stupid that’s going to get you excommunicated, but I don’t think there has been a case of this just yet. Don’t let that be you, it just really would not be a good thing — the Techstars family is awesome.The Associate program is your ticket into Techstars. Its a little hack to go through Techstars as an individual, as a single founder as such. You get to see and be very much a part of the program. You get to take part in the mentor sessions, the weekly founder stories, the mini MBAs, the weekly show and tells. You get to learn a hell of a lot and get to meet so many great people. You get to work with the 1o incredible teams, bringing a fresh perspective to the table and really see your hard work pay off through your programming, marketing or business development skills. You get involved in organising and running Demo Day and throwing the sickest after party possible. You also have to be willing to stack chairs and clean tables.Its not about the money and if thats your main concern, the program isn’t for you. The Associate program in Berlin IS paid, but it will just be enough to cover your costs of living for the 3 months. And thats the thing right, its only a 3 month program. You live the struggle of a starving artist, a struggling entrepreneur but you make ends meet. You make it work. Techstars Associates generally go on to do incredible things. Some join the teams that are in program. Some build their own companies. Some go to work with the mentors that they’ve met through the program. I, on the other hand, joined Techstars as PM in Berlin. PS.. Associate testimonies are at the very bottom of the page.PSS.. Not for you but you know someone who would make a great Associate? Tell them to get in touch.TL;DRGoing back to the story of how I met As far as I’m aware Jon and Paddy were in discussion about Paddy’s startup at the time, Paymins and Chuka was one of the Associates in London.Chuka was (and hopefully still is) your typical American. Born with the ability to pitch. After talking to Jon about the Techstars Associate program and what Techstars is all about, he released Chuka on me. The passion in his voice, the story of what it meant to him to be am Associate and his bluntness -telling me if I didn’t do it I would be an idiot. If he was selling a product right there and then with a credit card machine I would have purchased taken out the plastic and purchased right then and there. (There might be another blog post in here on U.S. pitching vs EU pitching) Funny story from that night actually. One of the founders of WS checked into Copper Face Jacks (the worst night club in Dublin, but a famous one all the same) and I knew that he was entertaining F.ounders that night so we jumped a taxi and went straight there. (F.ounders is an exclusive group of the founding members of the top internet companies in the world) As the story goes, Chuka ended up partying in Elon Musks penthouse that night. Its all about the hustle.In hindsight, what Chuka was explaining to me was his story of what he got out of Techstars and what it meant to him, and I think its different for everyone. Y0u really get out of it, what you put in. Being an Associate is an incredible experience — its a hack of doing the Techstars program as an individual. You get pretty much all the benefits from the program that the startups get, apart from the $118,000 investment. You get to meet all of the program mentors, you get to attend all the workshops, mini MBAs, founders stories, Thursday night socials. You become apart of an incredible group talented people working with the teams, with the other Associates. You make lots of great friends from all over the world. You build an incredible network.Being an Associate at Techstars is a great stepping stone if you’re trying to figure out your next move. Not just anyone who applies for an Associate role is going to get the job. Its the select few. Generally Associates are entrepreneurs in the mid to late 20s/early 30s with years of experience who are looking to build their network and create an unfair advantage for themselves. Its the people who are willing to jump right in and make the most of the opportunity, its the hustlers, its the people who will go the extra mile to stand out.Techstars has helped me to further my career and build my network. Its been a great move. I’ve reached out to other Associates and asked them about their experiences. You can read them below. If you are interested in coming to Berlin for the Summer, why not Following the end of the program, my fintech startup Origin was admitted onto the Barclays Techstars program so I’m doing it all again but from the other side!-After the program ended, I joined a startup from one of the previous Techstars cohort to help out with its user acquisition.---I also got to work lots of interesting companies such as the open-source Switchboard by Spatch (Following the end of the program, I got hired by one of the Techstars investors who runs a company called Potential(Pontential.co.uk). I am now in Bali, Indonesia to help open up an Asian office for them. Just living the dream.Dublin ✈️ Berlin — Connector — 

It’s difficult to juggle all of life’s priorities. It’s even more difficult when you have a full-time job, and on top of that, a full-time life.I get it. Ive been there.Now, what would it be to like to feel satisfied and peaceful and fulfilled… It would be awesome, right?Im not going to give you productivity tips or motivational speeches. Youve been there, done that. You already know all the tricks.I want to give you something a little different.Here are 3 action steps that help you balance work, life, and learning tech skills… so you no longer feel impatient, frustrated, or annoyed.Ask yourself:Let’s say you identified 5 areas of importance: learning tech skills, family, friends, health, and hobbies.You rated each of these areas on a scale of 1–5, with 5 being the most important.Then you made a rough estimation of how much “free” time (time not spent at work, eating meals, or sleeping) you spent on each of these areas.See an example below.Then you charted this matrix to get a visual of the contrast between levels of importance and time spent.See example below.Right away, you can see that level of importance does not correlate with time spent.In the ideal world, what could those distributions look like?Do you see the difference?Right away from looking at these charts, you get a sense of the disconnect between importance and time.That disconnect is what well dig into next, to uncover the reasons You can grab a copy of these matrices and charts Now let’s move on to Step #2.Emotions are hinged on our thoughts in a very real way.For example:When you do something of high importance (spend time with your spouse) instead of something else with high importance (learn tech skills), what goes on in your head?What do you feel when you think those thoughts?Tense? Impatient? Irritated?Instead of enjoying those few hours with your spouse, youre thinking about something else and feeling guilty or annoyed that you arent at your computer.But sometimes they can be unhelpful. They can distract you. Take up valuable brain space.Now let me ask you this:If your time allocation looked more like your ideal world chart than your current world chart, would you still experience unhelpful thoughts and emotions?Hey we dont call it the ideal world for nothing.Which leads us to the next question. Do you know what it takes to make the ideal world your current reality?Sure.Spend less time on things that are less important, right?But you already knew that. You read the productivity blogs, you know all the tricks. You know it’s not as simple as just spending less time on things that are less important.You still feel frustrated and impatient when you arent spending time on learning, when you feel you arent progressing fast enough.So… what does have to happen?You actually need to Ill show you how in Step #3.Let’s keep going with the example of spending time with your spouse vs. spending that time learning tech skills.Let’s get even more specific and say that the tech skills in this example are MEAN stack.Close your eyes and picture this.Youre getting ready to go to dinner with your spouse. These are plans you had for a week now. You initially agreed, and now youre getting cold feet.Youre thinking,“I could be learning MEAN stack right now”.The impatience sets in. You begin to feel tense. Claustrophobic.Pause for a moment here. If you apply a percentage to indicate the strength of those feelings, what would it be? Let’s say about 80%.Now let’s strip down the thought.Take away the emotion, the vague and nebulous feelings. Leave it bare bones, just words in your head.Look at it with objective scrutiny. Assess the situation.Could you be learning MEAN stack right now?Yes. Yes, you could.…Now you have a decision to make.In this case, you made dinner plans. Spending time with your spouse is important to you. You are also hungry.Taking all those variables into account, no, you will not be learning MEAN stack for the next few hours.That’s it, then. Done.You make a deliberate decision, a conscious choice.You are going to dinner instead of learning MEAN stack, and that’s that.Now how keyed up do you feel?This very subtle mind shift to active choice can reduce unhelpful emotions radically.I keep a chart like the one shown above. I use it regularly for identifying unhelpful emotions like anxiety and self-doubt. On average I am able to reduce those feelings by approximately 75% on the spot.Occasionally I revisit entries I made a few weeks or months earlier, and can spot a 90–100% reduction just from time passage alone… which further indicates that there was never a need to have those unhelpful emotions in the first place.You can grab a copy of the chart used in the example You went over the areas of importance in your life. You assessed time expenditure.You identified thoughts that come with unhelpful emotions, and learned how to shift your thinking.What’s next?Use the matrices and charts from Step #1 (in case you didnt grab the link earlier, The same goes for Step #2 and Step #3. Keep logs and check your progress over time (use the chart The value in using charts to log your progress is that you see data backing up your results. You get a visual trend instead of a gut check that changes based on the time of day and your mood of the moment.It’s a lot harder to evaluate the difference in quality of life when it’s all in your head.So if you havent done it yet, do it now.Fill out the charts, make your logs, and set a reminder for 30 days from now.Ready, set, go!I know first hand about the frustration that comes with self-learning, the periods of low motivation, the wondering… and worst of all, the ambiguity.That is why I want to share the techniques that I learned along the way, so you too can:I am happy to share these techniques with you, for free. You can download my short eBook “The only thing that I ask is that you sign up for my newsletter so I can send you articles just like this one !Joyce helps self-taught coders know I help self-taught coders transition from their full-time jobs into freelancing so they can be their own boss and experience freedom and flexibility every day.

We launched Bliss one week ago and this question has come up multiple times each day: “so… how do you calculate your values?!” We even lost one customer because we didn’t have any information about our calculation process.OK, big mistake on our end, ugh! In hindsight this seems so obvious to have some language on our site describing our process, especially since our product is so focused on only two values —We want to be super transparent about the way we evaluate code. The feedback, both positive and negative, can only help us continue to fine-tune our logic, so without further delay, here’s how we do it.Bliss reviews your code quality and searches for common pitfalls before calculating real-world dollar values based on current industry rates.We first review the quality of the code itself, ensuring all common industry standards are met. This includes things like code redundancy (unnecessarily repeated code), unnecessary code complexity (it pays to keep things simple), test coverage (to avoid breaking down) and many other best-practices that could cause problems as the product grows.These red flags give us a percentage score that we then multiply against the number of lines of code written.At the core of our calculations is a dollar-per-line value we assign by default for each language of code. This is not an arbitrary value. The value is averaged out by the salaries of developers, average amount of code written during a particular time, and the code quality of the output itself. Depending on a customer’s particular situation, these particular values can be customized.As more customers come onboard with Bliss our calculations and comparison data will become more and more accurate over time, lending to even more precise valuations.In the end, this currently allows us to make two calculations for our customers:As Bliss grows we hope to better refine these two calculations, but also introduce more ways that non-technical entrepreneurs can participate in technical projects. Likewise, we hope to create real value for developers and technical entrepreneurs by applying code quality tests in real-time and illustrating ways to fix potential problems, as well as calculating (based on comparative data) which problems could save the most money.CEO of 

Always on theLast week’sMost of the week’s events took place atTwo of our panelists were from graduating companies of the EvoNexus program, Rock my Run and TapHunter.My week in San Diego was capped off withDuring my week in San Diego, I met so many residents dedicated to growing the entrepreneurial environment. I was fortunate to take part in many of the great events during the week and I’m excited to be back for our next meetup. As a San Diego native, I was excited to learn about the growing tech scene and the resources available to entrepreneurs. I’ve been in the Bay Area, for school and for work, for the past six years but look forward to eventually calling San Diego my home again. It’s nice to see and entrepreneurial community that is very interconnected and willing to help each other out. Even as an outsider, I met many developers who were willing up open up their networks to me and introduce me to a number of their acquaintances.This was one of the things that I found particularly interesting in comparison to Silicon Valley. With accelerators like EvoNexus at the heart of the entrepreneurial community, most of the startups were utilizing, not competing over, the same resources. This seemed to produce an environment much like that of a family. In Silicon Valley, there is definitely a sense of community or family around startups, but it seems to only span small subsets of companies that share investors, class rings, or have other personal connections. In San Diego, this interconnectivity seems to span the whole tech community.In addition, the entrepreneurs I talked to were well aware that they operate differently from Silicon Valley. First, the amount of funding available is very limited and hard to acquire in comparison. Second, and maybe because of the lack of funding, everything seems to happen at a different level; things move a bit slower, companies don’t scale as fast, revenue models are actually important. But for the people I talked to in San Diego, this isn’t necessarily a bad thing. For instance, Mel Gordon, CEO of TapHunter has had her fair share of 80-hour work weeks. But she acknowledged in one of the talks during SDSW that on average, the slower pace of San Diego actually allows her to enjoy some of the things outside of work that are important to her, such as working out and finding a new place to enjoy a beer. In the hyper-competitive, fast-paced atmosphere of Silicon Valley, the struggle between a work and non-work life balance seems much more prevalent.During my trip, I learned that San Diego is indeed a growing tech hub. However, it does NOT seem to be trying to replicate Silicon Valley. Rather, an environment is developing where tech entrepreneurs can enjoy the resources available to them, along with all of the other things that the great city has to offer. Although I’ll be remaining in Silicon Valley for the next few years, I’ll be closely monitoring the San Diego tech scene, waiting for the next big startup to arise.San Diego Native - Stanford Grad - Silicon Valley

Over the past few days I’ve been listening and talking to a lot of amazing and smart people at Web Summit. My experiences ranged from listening to the CTO of Microsoft Azure and CEO of Adyen to having half-drunk conversations on the street with a bunch of eager entrepreneurs that figured their start-up would be the next best thing.All these talks have been very inspiring, but almost all of them missed an important aspect: apart from I’m not talking about the obvious ethical questions on safety and security which seem to have become standard interpretation of ethics in tech. Nor am I talking about sexism and hostility towards woman or other minorities within the tech community. Although these are valid topics which need to be addressed, they remain within the closed circuit of the tech community.I’m talking about the hardcore “is my product really doing anybody any good” kind of ethics. I am talking about morality.Take Ryan Smith’s claims that there is no reason to withhold this data from employees because they are more than capable of interpreting this information.That same logic is also applied to consumers, for instance when it comes to healthcare applications. It seems that the popular though is that if we, as a tech community, provide this seemingly amoral data to the consumer, we empower them to make their own informed decisions. The meaning of the data lies in the eyes of the beholder.This is a common claim in tech, and it’s even applauded: look at us, we are modern day heroes giving a voice to consumers who were kept in the dark by banks, healthcare professionals, governments, etc, etc.This modern day version of the tale of Robin Hood is used to conceal the fact that although some might truly believe in consumer empowerment, none of us would be doing any of this if it wasn’t for that same consumer throwing money at us for the fabricated notion of self-control.What we’re basically doing is impose our world view, that we are all capable of making informed decisisson on any aspect of life, on this notion of a generic consumer.As a rather homogeneous and somewhat priviliged group, the tech community tends to forget that in most developed countries, only 30–40% of the population has a tertiary education degree. And that’s a rather broad interpretation of the type of degree they received. Let’s just say they didn’t all go to Stanford, Berkely or Harvard.The fact that we ourselves, and those we know, might be able to correctly interpret this huge amount of data that all these applications gather and provide us with and make informed decision based on it (which I don’t believe is true), doesn’t mean that there isn’t a whole bunch of people who are most certainly not trained to understand the complex notions of correlation or implication.For instance, if you provide consumers with in-depth information about their health, and use machine learning to identify possible anomalies, they will run to their healthcare professional for every little scare. And they will distrust that same professional if their query is dismissed by lack of any medical evidence.So we may have empowered this consumer with additional “information” about their health, but we completely destroyed the most basic element of healthcare, which is the patient-docter relationship.And even if it’s not about data interpretation, but just generic disruption, we should try and learn from the Up until now, if I tried to have a discussion about ethics with people within the tech community, I’d be branded as patronising or conservative.That’s unfair as the question of ethics should never be dismissed by disqualifying your oponent. The impact of technological innovation on the world and our societies requires us to have this debate in an open and understanding way.The tech community cannot hide behind the smoke screen of amorality. If your answer to the ethical question of “is this doing anybody any good” is to say that you only provide the data and that it’s up to the consumer to interpret it, you might want to think again.And the questions should go beyond that. Surely, Airbnb is doing lots of people lots of good. I’m writing this article from an Airbnb rented room. But there is a negative side-effect when the less fortunate are driven from their homes to accomodate those who can affort to stay in a local “authentic” experience. We need to ask ourselves: is disintegrating communities worth the disruption of hotels?Most of the pitches that I’ve seen at Web Summit are created for So I’d like to urge those who are invited on stages like Web Summit, who engage with start-ups as investors or advisors, to start asking these ethical questions and to reject the current amoral approach to ethics.If you’re planning to change the world with our app, you’d better make damn sure it’s going to be a nice place afterwards.IT Infrastructure  Operations guy, creator of YouTransfer.io

Hey, I’m Ryyan. I guess my story would begin in a small town in central Georgia called Sparta. My upbringing was unique in the fact that I was raised in a small place, but have had the opportunity to travel the world and experience some amazing things. I was raised by two public school teachers who always stressed education, reaching for your dreams, and loving your culture. My father is an avid tinkerer who loves cars and tractors which is where I believe I get my passion for tech from, while my mother is an avid reader who has become a published writer. As a child I attended elementary school with kids who were much poorer than myself and likely wouldn’t be afforded the opportunities I would. As a result, my first experiences with life and people were humble but taught me lessons I would never forget and couldn’t be learned anywhere else. When I was old enough to go to middle school, an old van took us kids who could afford it to a predominantly white military school about thirty miles up the road so we could receive a better education than the one offered in our town. It had to be a sight every morning seeing a group of black kids in a beat-up van pile out in our uniforms and head to class. However, going through this cultural change would prove invaluable to me in just a few years.At the end of the eighth grade, my mother told me that our family would be moving to Japan. She and my father had been interviewing for jobs with the Department of Defense to become elementary school teachers on a naval base and had received them. She was elated, and as you can imagine, I wasn’t. So as an upcoming high school freshman I left my world of Friday night football, southern rap, and almost exclusively black and white people to go experience a new culture.As a high schooler in Japan I had my ups and downs. Dealing with the transition away from all my friends, plus the culture shock, created a rather rebellious teen. My high school was on a military base, so fortunately I was still with American kids but, needless to say, they were much different than the ones I had grown up with. I had always been a good student; however, my grades didn’t reflect it throughout my time in Japan. Despite the rough patch I went through as a young man, living overseas provided an incredible opportunity for me to be exposed to a different culture. I had the opportunity to go to Tokyo, climb Mt. Fuji, and make friends that I still keep in touch with till this day. Probably most importantly, it expanded my idea of what could be accomplished outside of my previous mindset.In my senior year, my family moved back to Georgia, and I finished my education at the same school I had left three years ago. Unfortunately by then my GPA was in the tank, I hadn’t thought about college much, and I was more concerned with my current girlfriend than my future. My older brother had just gotten out the army after serving two tours in Iraq, and I realized that following in his footsteps was probably the best move for me. My mother protested vehemently about me enlisting. She was already feeling lucky one son had made it home from the war safe, and she didn’t want to risk having to go through that ordeal again. However, I knew that college and I wouldn’t mix well so off I went to join Uncle Sam.My first duty station was in Camp Casey, South Korea, and I discovered my love for tech, programming, and business there first from a sergeant who was trying to sell tutorials on how to build web sites. I was going through a rough patch in life, and something about coding seemed to make sense when nothing else did at the time. I still reflect on the odds of meeting that sergeant. I’m sure my life would’ve take a completely different path if I hadn’t. From there I began to plan my future as a software engineer and entrepreneur. I served my last two years in the military in New Mexico and Iraq and finally made it home to start life anew.I always joke that when I came home at 22 I had a Simba (I wish I could say enrolling at Tech was my riding-off-into-the-sunset moment, but that’s not the way life works. It’s a tough school that demands you to push yourself intellectually and often denies you of the social life that is so crucial to one’s overall health. Unfortunately, in the computer science department there aren’t many people near my age and there is a lack of minorities as well. I’m a 27-year-old rap fan who loves playing pickup basketball, riding in my chevy Monte Carlo with the music loud, and watching football. However, I just happen to be a bit of a nerd. On top of that I’m an army veteran so that comes with an entire culture itself that I inherited. So while Georgia Tech gives me more than enough of an intellectual fill, I have had to actively seek a school/life balance. I spend time with my two brothers and keep in touch with my old army buddies. I also have a good high school friend I text daily, and I go to the local church which allows me to converse with other young adults that are going through a similar phase of life as myself.In the future, I hope to be a successful software engineer doing meaningful work. After that, I would like to work for an up-and-coming startup or have started my own. Finally, one day I’d love to give back to the town and people that shaped who I am so much. All the kids there deserve every opportunity I had and even more.Well that’s my story, hopefully it only gets better and longer!

If you’re disappointed with Twitter then you’re disappointed with virtually every other big tech company including, Apple, Microsoft and Google. Regarding this being a PR stunt, I think Alex was clear on the purpose of this response, “…to set public goals…so we can be held accountable.” I haven’t seen this kind of a “PR stunt “ from the other big tech companies, but when I do, Twitter will have set a high bar for taking action and responsibility.Let’s all hope that Alex has many followers.null

The speculative nature of tech start-ups and the tech industry in general are destroying Oakland and they’ve already wreaked SF. The inflated values of companies paying these high salaries combined with no political will to create some sort of plan for the future is going to drive out working people of all backgrounds. There doesn’t seem to be any drive to incubate a future where the whole of S.F. and Oakland maintain the character of each city. What we will have is cites with high rent condo towers and not much else.Not Neil Armstrong, A UPS Driver for 27years, Sleep deprived.

Technology is abused. People are relying more and more on it and things like social media to be stimulated and provide them with entertainment in the face of a physical reality surrounding themOsteopathic student, active Psychonaut, Amateur Articulator of grand thoughts and rational Optimist.

Your hotel is booked. You’ve got your plane tickets. A cheerful registration e-mail is in your inbox. Maybe you’ve even signed-up for a few training sessions.Right now, the plan is that you’ll show up to the convention, get the keys to your room, and just see where the week takes you. You are stoked. This is a terrible plan and you should feel bad because you came up with it. Go stand in the corner and reflect on the bad decisions you’ve made up to this point.Such. A. Noob.Here’s a better plan.There are two major groups of convention-goers — those that roam around aimlessly, following signs to free drinks and swag, and those who walk with purpose, ignoring the cattle chutes and doing their best not to run over the smaller, slower members of the herd.To get value from a convention, you need to be planning your ground game weeks in advance.Assuming you’re going to a vendor’s convention, this is the time to pull in your account team. Communicate your priorities and ask them to help.Ideally, you’ll arrive onsite with your calendar pre-booked with appointments to talk to product managers, engineers, and other customers dealing with similar problems. These discussions will be 1000 times more effective and valuable than sitting in on sessions.Also, make sure to book some time to get work done. Staying semi-caught-up will make your return to the office much more pleasant.“Customer appreciation reception” is a euphemism for “opportunity to gain leverage over you.” Nothing is free, everything has strings attached and unintended consequences.That drunk customer swinging from a chandelier is going to have a hard time negotiating come renewal time. Don’t get me wrong, I like to chandelier swing as much as the next guy, but I’m not going to do it around people I do business with.Going to a vendor party to “network” is a pipe dream. Ninety-five percent of the people there will be too inebriated to explain what they do for a living and the other 5 percent will on some spectrum from “Please shut up about your dog and/or ex” to “I bet you have a basement dungeon”.The music will be too loud for you to hear anything anyway. Go have a nice, quiet dinner instead, catch up on work, and rest up for tomorrow. If you’ve planned well, you have a busy day ahead of you.I click things. 

Gary you are really on the pulse of technology and I agree it is the future. But I really think we are still in the “night before the party” territory here. There was a LOT of technical background already in place before everybody got AOL and signed into the internet. Cellphones were already a huge, global thing before the iPhone (ever heard of BlackBerry?).I’m not saying it’s not going to kill it eventually in the entertainment and gaming space, and open many avenues for the high-end bleeding edge tech thinkers out there, but I believe the barrier to entry is still too high for mainstream and society at large.Also, cue the flood of debates on whether the new NYT thing really E.g. why invest in VR until Thanks!Software developer with interest in music, food, travel, fatherhood, kitty cats and other varied pursuits

I agree. It’s an amazing technology, but it’s been in development for the past 20 years and it’s still a way away from its ideal form, like in Star Trek. Although it is becoming more commercialized and more people are able to experience it, to reach full potential will take more time and tweaking. I saw an interesting TED video (

August 27, 2015, Dallas, Texas — AccelerateNFC, the world’s only accelerator program focused exclusively on proximity technologies like radio frequency identification (RFID), near field communication (NFC), and Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), announced today the creation of a new, global hackathon series focused on proximity ID technology solutions. Along with partner Flomio, AccelerateNFC created TrackHack™: The Proximity ID Hackathon to address the cross-over and interconnection among various proximity technologies used for mobile solutions. These technologies — RFID, NFC, BLE — are the basis of proximity ID solutions and will play a pivotal role in the Internet of Things (IoT).As mobile becomes even more pervasive, so does the demand for creative mash-ups of these proximity-based technologies. To address that need, AccelerateNFC and Flomio are introducing TrackHack, the first ever proximity ID technology event where hackers and developers can access ALL proximity ID tech and do what they do best: innovate, disrupt and create.The hackathon will focus on solutions addressing security, marketing and advertising, social interactions, gaming, mobile payments, as well as track and trace. Participants will compete for cash and prizes and winners will be invited to join the next AccelerateNFC class.Leading companies in proximity technologies from hardware and software providers to mobile marketing organizations and venture capital companies are participating and sponsoring this new hackathon series. Current sponsors and supporting organizations include: Interact Ventures, NFC Bootcamp, Blue Bite, RFID 24/7, RAIN RFID, HID Global, University of Texas Dallas, with more joining regularly.Registration is now open for TrackHack, November 20–22, 2015, in London and March 11–13, 2016, in Austin. Join in the hack and win cash and prizes. Visit — ABOUT —About AccelerateNFC (About Flomio (Proximity ID hackathon focused on RFID, NFC and BLE mash-ups

“There is one thing that technology fails to do that human interaction does for us: tuning into emotional cues.”If you can’t catch social cues over text, your problem may very well be reading comprehension, not social isolation; myself and my circle of friends seem to no issues with this, but, then, we don’t use short-hand internet speak, either.I also note that plenty of people cannot catch emotional/social cues in person, either. Ever had a conversation with someone that was horribly awkward about catching the vibe of the conversation, and couldn’t read between the lines of either body language, tone, or peoples’ wording? Yeah. Exactly.The point is that perhaps SOME people are no good at those things, but others have no issue with it. If technological socialization works for someone, no one else has the right to judge it and shame them for it. To each their own.

Unfortunately I think the generations coming through see technology in a different light.What you put forward here is a great argument and point — I strongly agree that technology is not what is causing social degradation or similar phenomena.There are younger people, however, who will never appreciate what technology provides them, simply because it is something they expect to have in their life. Something that deserves no gratitude or appreciation because of it’s normality.So whilst the argument you put forward is very valid, I feel it applies to a demographic of people aware enough of their environment and social interactions to appreciate what advancements in technology have provided us. You can’t argue that people are seemingly becoming more and more removed from reality.Osteopathic student, active Psychonaut, Amateur Articulator of grand thoughts and rational Optimist.

