It’s easy to see how designing forms can be seen as a chore that detracts from the time that could be spent on more exciting parts. Yet, if you think about it, the payment form is part of the checkout flow, the point at which a user is on the verge of committing to trusting you and your business with their vote of confidence. This experience should really be as great as possible, and using animations correctly can really improve this experience.The goal of animations should not solely be entertaining the user, but rather, they should be helping the user better understand what’s going on and how to use your product most effectively. If you disable animations, the flow should feel broken; if it is not, this might mean your animations are superfluous.That’s how we—the team behind Note: you should check out the mp4 versions for a higher frame-rate.This transition shows how an animation can be useful for the user. It becomes clear that we ask for their phone number as part of the Remember me step, that the phone input shows up because of the action you took (checking Remember me).When building a form, it’s easy to overlook how errors are experienced by the user. It’s easy to think of them as just one more item to check off in the list of potential tree of outcomes. However, it’s this point, at which they’re being told that there’s a problem with the information that they provided, that users are most frustrated (and consequently leads to high drop out rates of the payment flow). So, we added this little shake animation. It simultaneously alleviates the frustration users might feel with its quirkiness while also highlighting that something went wrong. The form is basically shaking its head at you. ☺Animations can be a good tool for making users perceive things as faster than they really are. When you’re waiting for something, we all know time tends to slow to a crawl. This little animation above makes the process feel much snappier, even though the absolute time to receive your text message stays the same. It’s worth noting that this animation is entirely an illusion — we don’t actually know when you receive the SMS.Subtle animations are my favorite. The transition between the first two states (“Payment Info” and “Pay $25.00”) matches the transition used for the payment details above it, using a similar slide effect. This highlights that the action linked to the button is changing as you complete each step.When the user clicks “Pay”, a spinner briefly appears before we show the success state. I’m particularly happy with how the checkmark animation came out — it really encourages you to feel like you easily did the purchase.This animation is a bit superfluous, in that it could be removed without breaking the flow — which contradicts the general premise of this article. But, I consider it useful in that it improves the flow.I tend, like most others, to not trust websites that feel like they were made 10 years ago. The over-the-top polished feel of this animation adds to the overall user experience, by conveying a level of perfection and attention to detail that you can’t help but trust.I used these examples help illustrate unexpected places where you can add some animations in your UI to improve the experience. No matter what type of app you’re building, with the right animations, you can make things clearer, connect users’ actions to consequences, change their perception of time, and most importantly, delight your user. Animations are not only for music, photo, and weather apps. ☺Thanks to User Interface Developer at Stripe. Best practices, lessons learned, and stories from designers at leading tech companies

Airbnb, Disney World, Uber and Nest. They are all phenomenal products, which together are worth over $135 billion! Not only do their services deliver great value, their experiences are so well thought out and executed that their strategy goes unnoticed. In other words, their user experiences are When designing the experience and interactions of a product, the most common question I ask myself is,Who actually enjoys fiddling around with dropdown menus, input forms and buttons? Sometimes as designers, we can be distracted by unnecessary noise when thinking through an experience. We bring emphasis to ‘beautifully designed forms’ because it’s the easier way out. One method I found quite effective is to think of the end goal and work backwards. This allows you to think beyond UI elements and really focus on what matters.As designers it is important for us to think more holistically about a product and its experience. Polishing pixels is important but an experience which is so great that the design goes unnoticed is even better.Jared Spool, an expert on the subjects of usability and design explains how Netflix sent out a survey asking their users what they liked best about their service. Customers replied with “Great selection of movies, recommendation tool was helpful and the overall service was great. When booking a place on Airbnb, the real value is when the host wants to accommodate the guest who contacted them. In retrospect, Airbnb could have thousands of ‘available’ places to stay at but if no hosts wants to accommodate you — you’ll have a negative experience.It’s invisible. Searching on Airbnb is quite simple and the forms are very minimal. When you make a search on Airbnb, behind the scenes they use machine learning to detect host preferences.Without going too in depth, what this means is that they have created a machine learning model that learns host behaviours and preferences for accommodation requests. With this understanding, they can optimise a ‘guest’ search results with ‘hosts’ that are more likely to accept your request as a priority. This makes your experience on Airbnb more meaningful as you’re very likely to receive a quick and successful response from a host.I am yet to experience an Airbnb host who does not respond to me.Disney World invested $1billion on a magical wristband. Why? because it gives them the opportunity to create a frictionless, magical experience through invisible design.It all begins when you book your ticket online and pick your favourite rides. Behind the scenes, they capture everything from you. With this data they are able to crunch your preferences then provide you a calculated itinerary that keeps you on route and stops you from zig zagging back and forth across the park.This invisible experience also flows into your restaurant booking. When you make the reservation the restaurant host will already know your name. In fact, you can sit anywhere and your food will magically make its way to you! How? The restaurant is fitted out with advanced sensors which open up a whole new world of opportunities for them.With Disney World knowing where you’re located in their magical theme park, this also opens up a ton of new opportunities to deliver an ever greater experience. Just imagine your children’s favourite characters come to them instead of them have weaving through the swarm of people.As you can see, great design brings great experiences.From a business standpoint, being able to optimise every itinerary will allow people to explore more of the park’s top attractions. When visitors spend less time in lines, they can do more and ultimately spend more!Taxis on-demand.Who ever thought one screen could disrupt an entire industry?Waving down a taxi before the Uber days was a nightmare. Stranded on the busy streets on a cold winters morning at 4am in Sydney, is not a great experience.The design of the Uber experience is phenomenal. From an interaction standpoint, Uber solves all of the consumers uncertainties within On the opening of the app (with location services permitted), the user does not have to engage with any UI elements to experience the value of the product. This is a great example of industry leading design thinking. They’ve nailed “As the app loads:If you have noticed with the success of Uber, the entire concept of booking cabs has diminished. Uber doesn’t offer the ability to ‘book a cab for tomorrow’. They’ve disrupted and revolutionised the industry standards and expectations.Current thermostats are expensive, complicated and inefficient. Tony Fadell saw this as a major problem, so he created Nest. As the designer of 18 generations of iPods and 3 generations of iPhones, he applied his learnings in creating a ‘Smart Thermostat’.Most people don’t program their thermostats for many reasons — for me it’s because it’s too fiddly. The Nest team have come up with an experience so great, it’s literally invisible.For the first 7 days of installation, the thermostat will learn your preferences and personalised schedule. Some features it accommodates include:This is great because it’s all done behind the scenes. The only thing required from the user is to set the temperatures during the first week. There’s no more fiddling around with unnecessary UI elements. Hence why Nest was bought out by Google.Great (invisible) design comes at a great cost.As we endure technological advances and a better understanding of technology, data, user behaviours and expectations, these experiences become more and more achievable. That is why there has been a surge and uprise in Personal Assistant apps.They’re all a stepping stone in becoming great experiences. They’re focused on delivering an experience where the ‘processing work’ happens behind the scenes.I do believe some of these personal assistant apps are powered by manual work at the moment — but as these startups continue to capture more and more data, the opportunity to automate a lot of the manual work will become available. In the next 5 years, we are going to see technology become more integrated than ever, with experiences also becoming even more seamless. I am absolutely blown away by what the team over at Microsoft Cortana are doing!I hope you’ve learnt a few things from this article and that you’re able to put these design thinking principles into practice. I challenge you, to start pushing yourself into exploring new ways of experiencing digital products. We’re in a digital age where lots of things are now possible. Don’t conform to patterns and trends, they don’t last.I would love to hear some of the innovative experiences you’re exploring or have executed! Share them with me: Follow me on All about designThe digital magazine for iOS that explores the future of work, creativity, design, startups and entrepreneurship.

Demand for UX designers is rapidly growing. Although the term “User Experience” has been used already in the ‘90s by Donald Norman it is stillPolish company UXPin not only launched one of the most popular tools for prototyping, but also looks after designers providing free ebooks about UX, information architecture, flat design, mobile typography, usability testing, responsive design and so on. Cool e-books available online absolutely for free. Useful links, examples and case studies. And those covers!On this popular learning platform you will find more than 60 coursesA site devoted entirely to User Experience. You will find articles, sources (books, podcasts, courses, conferences, techniques, tools, etc.) and a forum where you can exchange thoughts and opinions with other UX designers.UX Magazine focuses on different aspects of User Experience design: emotions, usability, empathy and storytelling. You will also find a list of the most important international UX events and jobs.On this Tumblr blog each week there’s two notes about the process of designing for people.Uxeria allows you to remotely test usability of apps and websites. On Uxeria’s blog you will find content about usability, 31 Lessons from Joel Marsch about principles of UX design.Erik Flowers, Principal Service Experience Designer talks about differences between User Experience and User Interface. More posts Daily news (2 links, to be precise) from UX World.A helpful UX checklist for analyzing the specific parts of the projects and estimate its cost.A classic from Donald Norman about cognitive functions and emotions. It answers the questions why we love or hate everyday things and why cheap wine tastes better served in a nice glass. Prologue can be found Steve Krug’s guide helps to understand the rules of designing intuitive navigation and information design. Witty, commonsensical and extremely practical book — one of the most popular and most recommended works on the subject of UX.Dan Suffer’a book reveals secrets of interaction design. You will learn how to create design strategy that differentiate your product from the competition, how to.The book focuses on designing responsively and finding answers...Alan Cooper’s book is about designing interactions: methodologies, designing for mobile devices, responsiveness, sprinkled with numerous examples.The book focuses on the process of UX and not technology that constantly changes. Smart Things discusses methods, compromises and challenges of design in a commercial environment along with many case studies.The book about design thinking and UX design.Book published in 2013 focuses on improving methods of User Experience, teamwork including clients to ongoing project...You can also check facebook group: We develop modern products for modern people.| Sharing our ideas and experiences

2014 was quite a year for user experience design - Google unveiled Here’s a look at the year in user experience design with the best UX links for 2014:Do you have any links you loved that I missed? Share your thoughts with me on Twitter (Lead User Experience Designer 

—As a (product-growth-user-experience-interaction-interface-web-tacos) designer, I enjoy breaking down and finding hidden experience and interaction gems in successful products. Whether they are used to enhance the overall user experience or are powered to stimulate growth, I find them interesting and something worth sharing. Hopefully this post will help you to pick up a few ideas for your own project.Without further ado, here are the 9 hidden user experience and interaction gems I found on Airbnb:As soon as I step onto Airbnb’s homepage, I am instantly greeted by a safe and welcoming vibe. I believe there are many factors that contribute to this but one thing definitely stood out to me. Photos predominantly drive their homepage. If you look closely, most of their portrait shots have either a couple or group of ‘friends’ smiling and enjoying life.This is a great example of emotional contagion.By overwhelming us with photos from the get go, the home page is jolting our minds to trust the Airbnb community and associate its brand with happy travellers.If you want to see how emotional contagion can be spread online, you’ll find the following article quite interesting: ‘Airbnb has a very consistent set of terms they use across the site. ‘One less stranger’, ‘A World of Belonging’, ‘Belong Anywhere’, ‘Welcome Home’ etc. This may not seem like much but I believe it’s very well thought out.They turn what used to be a very static experience of accommodation search to something very emotional and personal.Never underestimate copy. It frames the context of any experience. For example, you could have 3 photos displaying the best that Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane has to offer. A title such as ‘Ideas for your next trip’ is ok but a title such as ‘This week’s TOP holiday destinations!’ will get people clicking. The context of the second title gets people to get excited and to jump on board because everybody else is doing it!When my café barista remembers my coffee order, I can’t help but return to soak in the VIP service. It’s pretty swish when service providers remember the individual needs of their customers.Airbnb takes this service online by remembering all your previous website searches. This means that after you’ve compared quotes and offers from different sites, Airbnb will remember all your favourite stays WITH your travel dates intact!This is just one simple step to making your experience on their site memorable and seamless.With the growth of Airbnb and the thousands of listings that pop up in search results, choice paralysis can easily overwhelm a user. I noticed they now have a very discreet bar graph that shows a high level count of listings within a price range. This helps me to quickly understand average prices without having to dig into a hundred listings to gather this information.What’s most important to you when selecting a place to stay at? For me, it’s what the place actually looks like! Airbnb makes it so easy to browse through the listing photos. You don’t need to click through to the next page. You can simply browse the photos on the parent-listing page. If the gallery doesn’t tickle your fancy, move on. #LESSONECLICKI love that their listings automatically update when you move around on their map. This is another well thought out design that adds extra delight to the experience.An old trick from the books. Stimulate urgency and create social proof by revealing the number of users you’re competing with.When I made my first enquiry on Airbnb, I was rejected because I was late to make the booking. I wish they had this implemented earlier! I still look forward to booking the place again, on my next visit to Amsterdam!How nice would it be to be greeted by all your new ‘friends’ from all around the world during a special time? This is one of my favourite branding and retention strategies by Airbnb.I remember in one of Brian Chesky’s interviews he talks about Airbnb being more than an accommodation site. It’s a place to build new friendships.At the end of last year I received an email, which titled ‘Share season’s greetings with your Airbnb Hosts’. This is a great idea that encourages friendship and community building on their platform. It is also a predominate reason to why I enjoy booking with Airbnb over other accommodation sites.A focused, funnel experience on their homepage.When you first come to Airbnb’s homepage they remove the explore section. The focus is on the first entry point into their funnel.Now make a search and click around on a few listings and return to the homepage. What do you see? A personalised and tailored experience relevant to your search. A minor gem but it definitely made me go wow, dat personalised experience.Not only does it add a touch of delight to the experience, the timing is also a lot more relevant. I’ve become more of a warm user after making a search and browsing a couple of pages.As of 2015, Airbnb is valued at $20 billion. That’s within 7 years. What an inspiring startup story. If you haven’t already, I highly recommend you I hope you’ve picked up a couple of tricks. Be sure to bookmark, share and recommend if you enjoyed this read.If you’d like to keep in touch, share a few words or stay up to date on what I’m working on. Follow me on All about designA place for all the ramblings.

By In 2011 In the field of UX it’s similar but different. We’re trying to understand our users’ stories; we then craft a new one for them that (ideally) makes them happier and makes their lives easier. As I thought about this I saw that the 22 rules Emma had come up with could almost be applicable to the field of UX.So I made some minor changes to see if I could adapt them.Successful UX is about making assumptions and then testing to validate. We do this through user research, user stories and prototyping. The key is to define assumptions, test, refine, repeat. This typically yields better outcomes than spending six months working on a ‘ta-da!’ piece. After all, your UX process is what smart employers will be looking for, as noted in this This is basic but something we are all tempted to forget. It can be exciting when you’re in Photoshop fueled by the latest new interfaces you’ve seen by designing the most beautiful and exciting feature set ever created. But we know this isn’t always what excites our users or makes them happy. Keep your users in focus before you start designing — otherwise you’ll get carried away and fall into the trap of being attached to something you’ve invested too much time in.It’s easy to fall into the trap of wanting to create a sense of consistency within a product — it’s something we cling to, a basic principle that we feel will make things ‘easy’. I see this a lot — many people new to experience design focus on this idea of ‘consistency’ as it sounds safe and makes them feel comfortable.In reality, consistency only works at a specific level and doesn’t work on the level of interaction design or product design. There are existing design patterns that are helpful to start from as they generally play to users’ expectations of how things will behave. However arbitrarily going for ‘consistency’ without consideration for it’s impact on usability or experience is dangerous — especially if you don’t validate with testing.Tell the story of your user. People can relate to stories — they’re a powerful way to convey the feeling of the experience, empathy and understanding of someone else’s perspective and context. This is important when you can’t involve everyone in research sessions. You need to be able to bring the team on the journey in other ways, and stories can be one of those ways.Stories can help define the baseline state, a user’s day to day life and work. Define the events and edge cases that would make a user behave differently. Explain the reasons for particular behaviour or choices. The ending is about how you craft an experience that improves on their existing one.This was a key lesson for me as I journeyed through different projects. Features seem really important when you come up with them, making you feel like you need to account for absolutely every angle. The experience starts to get muddy and complex — but what do you get rid of?It actually takes a lot of courage and focus to strip away the unnecessary to simplify experiences . It can feel like you’re missing something. The truth is users don’t necessarily need bells and whistles, so long as they can do what they need to smoothly and seamlessly, they’ll usually be happy.This is clearest in the example of the iPhone. A long, long time ago I worked as a phone salesperson. My team and I would often agonize over the fact that while the iPhone seemed to lag behind in both specs and features — customers would still pour in to buy it. Why? Because it does everything they need it to, simply.Getting comfortable and assuming for the best is the worst thing you can do with a design or interaction. Interactions don’t always go smoothly — in fact a lot of the time your planned interaction falls apart under the ‘killing field’ of usability testing.The kindest thing you can do for your design is to find the lowest common denominator and test the interaction there. Similarly, designs don’t always hold up in the ways they need to. Consider how your design needs to hold up on different devices or screen resolutions. What would happen if someone with vision impairment needed to increase the font size? Accessibility is also an important consideration here.Your product needs to deliver a particular value proposition, experience and business benefit. And these need to be defined before you start designing. The questions of ‘how do we deliver this benefit?’ or ‘what value proposition will engage users?’ or ‘what does the experience look like?’ are fundamental and need to be explored first since the answers will have a huge impact on the design. If your design isn’t based on the answers to those questions, it’s very likely that it may not succeed in delivering business benefit or enticing users to use it — no matter how beautiful or usable.The question here is ‘how fast can you go’? In Lean and Lean UX practices the term used to describe the minimum needed to learn and move forward is known as the ‘Minimum Viable Product (MVP)’.This doesn’t mean creating a prototype that is so flimsy that it can’t be used as a test. It means considering what excess can you strip away from your prototype/test cycles.Stay away from Photoshop and Axure in the beginning — these will slow you down. It’s not about deliverables anymore it’s about being lean and communicating within your team all the while avoiding ‘perfection’.What isn’t right? What’s the experience you wouldn’t want your users to have — or what wouldn’t they do? Sometimes if you go through this process the answers will emerge in the negative space.Really this is about Whenever you respond to a design the things you feel are ‘cool’ or ‘trendy’ stem from things you’ve been previously exposed to. If you dig into these feelings you’ll identify design patterns and trends that are actually frameworks you can use to branch out from to create new designs.This means you need to explore. Find designs and experiences that inspire you. Look at some of the best new content on sites like I didn’t have to change the words for this one — it translates perfectly. It’s just so applicable across multiple disciplines. Have you ever had an idea you thought was so great, you spent a lot of your time trying to stand up your idea or defend it? Hopefully this happens to other people and not just me. It’s a bad habit. You tighten around your idea and become closed off to other peoples’ ideas.You also don’t see the flaws in your idea or ever explore it deeply. Getting things on paper — and not just you, your team as well — is a great way to shine light on ideas, share and bounce off each other to create great new ideas that no one could have created alone.There’s no such thing as the ‘solo genius’ — beware of anyone who tells you otherwise. Don’t feed into your own delusions of grandeur. I am constantly surprised and amazed when I open up and share my ideas and listen curiously and openly to the ideas of others. Be the person helping others get their ideas down and sharing gold, rather than the hoarder trying to progress their own.It’s really important to go broad when you ideate. As soon as you get hooked on a concept or idea and start to converge and move forward, all the possibilities you didn’t look at never get a chance to be explored. You could potentially be missing a better solution.I’ve heard people say that if you can get your surface thoughts out the new ones that arise spontaneously are some of the most creative. There are some great workshop techniques that help facilitate this such as affinity mapping and design studio workshops.You need to understand your user base and you also need to facilitate and share this understanding with your team. If you don’t have sufficient research and don’t really understand the people you’re serving you can’t really explain this to your team. The stories you tell and the personas you explain won’t have depth or substance and this will impact the decisions the team make and the meaning their work has.Sometimes we create experiences that drive off deep seated beliefs. We have to be aware of ourselves and what influences us so that we can understand if it’s coming from a place of wisdom or somewhere that is fuelled by strong but not necessarily valuable opinions.Sometimes your team will go ‘really? REALLY?’ when you tell them that this isn’t going to work out for a user. Why? Because it’s hard to understand the perspective of a layperson when you’re in the position of expert. This again is about storytelling and conveying emotion. If you can explain how a user feels and the underlying motivations then your team are more likely to understand and share your view.Communicate the risks, the user’s frustrations and intentions. Practice your storytelling, bring people to your research sessions. Give your sponsors and colleagues a reason to care about the experience.Always participate in activities that are adding value. If you cannot understand how what you’re working on now will add value to the project you’re on, stop and find something else to work on. Don’t be afraid to let go of something.Check in with yourself. Hello? Are you getting carried away in design land? I do it all the time. I looove designing, spending time in Photoshop, trying different design angles. This is all very well and good — but check in with yourself and get up and test what you’ve done. Check in with users, check in with the team, and then you can get back to designing with the insight and direction your team and research provides.This one’s pretty simple — you can’t make excuses for major design and usability flaws in your interface. I’ve heard it before “we’ll provide training” or “it was only one user”. Don’t make excuses and don’t rationalise a position that’s really based on not questioning the design, spending more time and money on getting it right.This is a great exercise to do when going into a project. If you can take apart similar or existing experiences/solutions and understand what makes them poor (or what makes them good) you can use this to inform the direction you take when building a new experience. It’s not necessary to limit it to your preferences either. It’s extremely useful to conduct UX tests on competitor or existing systems to understand flaws or current behaviour patterns.When you research properly, you get to a point where you have a felt understanding of what a user context is. Meaning that you intuitively and experientially understand how they feel, what their circumstance is, and what drives behaviour. When you get to this point you’ll know it. From this point you can ideate from a platform of real understanding and have the potential to create a real experience — one that people see and agree that it’s the most obvious and common sense approach.Define the core and simplest version of the experience you want to create. This will help you focus when you start diving down into creating the interaction design and identifying priority user stories. If you know that a successful experiences only needs a core set you can deliver that — as fast as possible and then expand from there if necessary.Of course, these aren’t really the hard rules of UX or even a comprehensive list — rather a simple adaptation of the Pixar storytelling version. Which stories would you have adapted differently?A community of passionate individuals whose purpose is to revolutionize software design, creation and delivery, while advocating for positive social change.Essays on Technology, Innovation, Product Strategy and Leadership. Readers favorites and editors choices from ThoughtWorks Insights.

-Experienced Consultant, UX/UI Designer, Founder and MentorHandpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

So why do most software companies struggle to adopt its brilliant formula?You’re right. It is just a door. There is nothing special about this door whatsoever. It opens. It closes. It occupies a space between two disparate rooms, allowing people to pass from one side to the other, like most doors do. It does nothing out of the ordinary.Consider this door’s components: Some serve little to no functional purpose. Some even appear to contradict its purpose. But together, these components create a magical experience.Why is this? To me, you and the vast majority of people we know, this door makes perfect sense. Of course it’s built this way! Why wouldn’t it be? But give the original problem this door solves to a typical software company, and many of its now core components would be stripped back — forgotten.These are just some of the typical discussions I would expect to have around this problem/solution working at a typical software company:Lead Designer at Sharing what I have learned so far.

On small teams where time resources are limited user experience can often be overlooked. Over the past few months I’ve tried to develop a low impact UX cycle that designers and project managers can use to improve the quality of web apps without adding a lot of bloat to a project. This article will be written from the viewpoint of an app that is currently in-use. The UX process will vary slightly for a new product but the same basic principles exist. Below is a five-step process going through a development cycle that defines a detailed look at best practices in the UI/UX discipline.Preplanning can be broken up into three main areas: data analysis, user stories, and user flows. This is the point in which the UX designer identifies both who the current users are and the issues they may be facing. The UX designer explores current flows, red routes, and user personas to identify current issues before introducing new features and/or redesigning the user interface to resolve pain points in the app. When introducing new apps as MVP’s you wont have current users or beta testers and will need to gather this data through internal testing or controlled user testing.Data Analysis is a key first step and one of the most important steps to assure that new features and/or redesigns are in sync with what users want and need. This step includes but is not limited to:There are a lot of ways to collect data, these are a few of my favorites. After collecting this data you will have a good foundation to build user stories and user flows off of.User stories are the critical next phase in the preplanning step. The most important part of creating user stories is to create user personas. User personas include characteristics such as age, location, internet usage, title, and personal interests, among other things. One of the best ways to develop personas is through phone interviews with current users or through app profiles, if possible. After this information is gathered, the UX designer can begin creating user stories and use cases. These contextualize the user’s needs and find knowledge gaps that could be creating frustrations for end users. With this information the UX designer can begin creating user flows, which walk through tasks, step-by-step, to create an accurate understanding of how users will be using the app.Now that the user data has been collected, the UX designer can begin creating user flows. This is really the first step in the design process. Once common workflows are mapped, red routes can be established. Every app has one or more red routes. These are the primary flows a user would take through the app to complete a task. These are important because they represent the primary focus of the app and should be prominent in the design. Note that although red routes are important, there is also a subset of tasks that need to be accounted for. Once the user flows are complete, they can be stacked together and joined with user stories to create real world user flows for different use cases. Taking account for all the users flows in a app can be a bit tedious but the more detail you account for in this phase the easier it will be to create your information architecture in the next.With the preplanning step complete, the UX designer now has the necessary information to make educated decisions on design patterns.Step two consists of: sketching, wireframing, information architecture, and prototyping. At this point, the UX designer uses the data collected from preplanning and begins to explore how users will interact with the app. This consists of identifying the layout, developing visual hierarchy, and deciding what belongs in each view. This is also a good point to start working with prototypes to build an understanding of how features will react and animate when users interact with the app.Sketching allows for the quick and easy exchange of ideas in a group setting. This is a time when the UX designer, project manager, and developers can explore outlandish ideas without sacrificing much time or effort. Sometimes the most innovative ideas can arise from group sketching.Wireframing is an important step in the design process. Wireframes act as the blueprint for the design, connecting the IA to the visual design. They explain behaviors and flows — what goes where and how features interact with each other. A wireframe is helpful for all parties involved, and serves different purposes for different people. For designers, it explains the UI and contributes to the mockup process. For developers, it explains functionality and can assist with backend architecture. For clients/stakeholders, it provides reassurance that everything is being accounted for and the app is on track. Wireframes are typically grayscale or bluescale and, with the right tools, can be created relatively quickly.Information Architecture is simply the structural design of shared information environments — the art and science of organizing and labelling. IA and wireframing go hand in hand. This is the point at which visual hierarchy is important and deciding the correct layout of content, copy, images, and icons is key.Prototyping is the first step to getting the app in motion. Many UX designers prefer to build prototypes in the exploration step rather than the design step. When wireframes are in motion, they may not function as expected. This can cause the UX designer to reconsider decisions that were made in the wireframing/IA process. Addressing these issues early on can prevent a lot of time consuming changes later in the development process. The complexity of the animation directly affects the tool that would be suitable to use. If there are complex javascript or css3 animations, it is best to consider tools like Adobe After Effects or Framer Studio. If the app has basic animations, it may be better suited for tools such as Marvel or inVision.Now that the exploration step is complete, the UX designer can take the notes, wireframes, and animations and begin creating style guides and high fidelity mockups to hand over to the developers.At this point the app really comes to life — colors and fonts are chosen, branding and/or brand guidelines can be introduced, and mockups start to take shape. The processes within this step tend to vary from company to company. Sometimes, UX designers focus solely on design and hand over everything else to frontend, backend, and mobile developers. In other companies, the UX designer holds the role of UX developer. In such cases, the UX developer builds coded UI elements into style guides and builds out web views and mobile storyboards while backend and mobile developers are working. Depending on the size of the company and team as well as the scope of the project, this can be one of the most time-consuming steps in the development process.Style guides can be handled multiple ways. They can range from simple sets of visual guidelines — like a brand style guide — to in-depth guides that act as a front-end framework — like foundation or bootstrap — with UI widgets, SASS mixins and variables, and even page templates. The line between style guides and mockups can easily be blurred, depending on how the project is run. Good style guides usually exist in a portal, as a website, or in a github repository.Mockups are slowly becoming a smaller and smaller part of the design process. As wireframes and style guides become more detailed, the need for developers to see mockups becomes less important. The best use for them at this point is presentational. A mockup can help demonstrate the app to a client, stakeholder, or potential investor; it can also help get sign-off and show that milestones are being met. If time and budget allows and high fidelity mockups were created you may want to consider animating mockups to help non technical people visually understand the way the app will present information to an end user.Hand-off, a critical part of the design process, has now become more complex than simply sending an email with sliced-up images. It can include data URIs, SVGs, custom icon fonts, and much more. It’s important that the UX designer understands the load of the design assets and the best practices when applying them to the app. This is a good point to work with a developer and devise a plan.At this point, the project is in development, and the designers and developers are working together to build the app and integrate the user interface with the backend architecture without compromising the experience.Quality Assurance should occur throughout every step of the app development process. At this point it’s important to discover any weak points in the design and possible user error issues that can be resolved before a beta release. QA provides confidence that quality requirements will be fulfilled. QA consists of two core concepts: “fit for purpose” (the product should be suitable for the intended purpose) and “right first time” (mistakes should be eliminated). QA includes management of raw materials, products, services, and components related to the production and management processes. This article will focus on speed and errors, finalizing the designs, and micro details as it pertains to the UX designer.The app should be close to completion, and testing can start internally. The UX designer should be testing every user flow to find errors, testing load/stress performance, and finding the most effective way to handle user errors. If the app is large and handles a lot of data, creative perceptions of speed can be introduced — an example includes giving instant feedback through mini wins while data is being updated on the backend. Updating the view or starting an animation can also reassure users that the app is working, even if it’s displaying a progress bar or spinner. Background tasks that anticipate the user’s next action are also helpful in creating the illusion of speed. A lot has been written on this subject lately, and addressing these issues can be the difference between user retention and user churn.Finalizing design coincides with speed and errors. This is a good time for the UX designer to discover ways to make things faster, identify features unnecessary to the user experience, convert icons to icon fonts, or clean up the presentation of visual elements to ensure font and color visual hierarchy is intact.Micro detail is a newer concept that has emerged from Google’s user experience research for its material design concept. At this point the app is ready for beta release, and the UX designer can collect user feedback to identify issues with speed and functionality that may have been overlooked during internal testing.Feedback is similar to preplanning and focuses on user feedback. If this was a new application, this would be the first time the UX designer is getting real feedback outside of controlled user testing. This step is critical to the app’s success. There are a lot of ways to gather good feedback. Below is an example of one:KPI, or key performance indicators, are set up to help understand the impact of UX changes on the end user. Basic traffic metrics like Google Analytics and New Relic are helpful in tracking baseline page load times and how long a user remained on a page, but are less useful when evaluating the impact of UX changes. Google created a way of measuring UX impact on large-scale data analysis using two methods: the HEART framework and the Goals-Signals-Metrics process. The HEART framework is comprised of five key points:Measuring the user’s attitude via surveys and net-promoter score.Level of user involvement, typically measured via behavioral proxies, such as how many times a visitor has used the app in a week or how many photos or posts someone has added.May include the number of accounts created over a certain period of time or how often users are utilizing new features.Simply refers to how many people return to the app after the initial visit without falling off into churn.Where a tool like New Relic is effective in measuring how long someone was on a certain task, whether it was completed, if a new one was started, and so on.If these data points are applied to the Goals-Signals-Metrics process, they can provide deeper insight into the user experience as opposed to just tracking unique visitors.The Goals-Signals-Metrics process, when used with the HEART framework, provides UX designers with real metrics from the user experience. Goals can actually go back to the initial user flows and red routes. These were the key tasks that were intended for end users to accomplish. Monitoring these flows can give you insight into what end users need and like as well as what may be irrelevant or uninteresting to them. Signals are where goals are measured. A goal might be a user searching for documents in a portal — perhaps that goal is complete, but how long did he or she search? How many searches were made? Were any of the documents downloaded? That is the signal. The metrics are gathered over time and/or used for comparison in A/B testing. Going back to the portal example you test how long users spend searching for documents against how many documents were downloaded to see if users are struggling to find what they’re looking for. To gather metrics its best to normalize the data to get more meaningful feedback.Making the overall experience of a person using a product better is all the UX designer sets out to do. This is why I created this process. It’s fairly lean but I truly feel that if implemented correctly it could be the difference between your next project being a success or being another victim of user churn. If you have any questions or want to reach out to me directly you can connect with me at:Hola!, Im a Product Designer/web designer and an avid runner addicted to all things design.Design and UX

The way that you describe and label the product is just as important as the visual design + feature set. It’s particularly important in getting users to sign up. People want to know exactly what you will do for them, and how you will do it, within seconds of landing on your website or app page.Forget minimalist, simple design. For some products it works, for most it doesn’t. The most important thing in a product is accessibility - I should be able to quickly do what I want to do, and there should be a clear call to action for each main user desire.Your app is treated like a living, breathing person. Your users build a relationship with it. They converse with it. They confide in it. They lean on it. Make sure that you pass the trust test, or like a flaky friend, you’ll find yourself without many supporters.Before you get too complicated, make sure that all of the basics are handled. Does the app load quickly? Is it responsive? Does the user get immediate feedback for his/her actions? Is the text large enough? Most apps get way too complicated and ambitious before they nail the basics. Reliability might be the most unique trait in the product world.If you gamify your app, your users will treat it like a game, and all games must end. Don’t nourish your users with points and badges. Instead, provide them with real value in their lives. Give them a solution to a problem that matters.Don’t expect your users to put a lot of time, effort, and data, into your system right off the bat. You need to do something useful for them first, even if it seems trivial. Most of the time, you won’t become best friends with your users - so treat them like customers instead. Tit for tat.Do one thing really well, instead of two things moderately well. You need to create a tight association between yourself and a user need, so that you easily pop into their heads when the time calls.Is there a way you can give some of your users a truly astounding treat every blue moon? Those kinds of memories can last a lifetime.To really help someone, you sometimes need to nag them. If you use email and push notifications in a respectful manner to help your users do something worthwhile, you win.Applied Psychologist. Fan of mitochondria.The Editorial Page

Providing users with a seamless experience while using your interface is a popular goal when building digital products. Modern day devices and software enable complex transitions between elements on your screen, and as designers we should embrace this development for a better user experience. But how do you define a good transition?In order to define a good transition, understanding the relation between animation and the User Experience is key.Our digital products enable us to do the unimaginable these days, like Using animation can provide the user with valuable feedback without cluttering your interface or overwhelming the user with information. A great example is the Camera app in iOS when trying to focus on an object. The crosshair fades in and shrinks to mimic focus, when it grabs the correct focus and exposure it blinks twice and it fades out to inform the user they’re ready to snap the photo. These types of animations offer very specific information without overwhelming the user.If an interface features a lot of elements, it can be desirable to shift the attention of the user to a specific element on the screen. Using animation enables the designer to play with position, scale and opacity to grab the users’ attention. Another trick is to use an asynchrone timeline of animations to pull focus on the element that animates last.Animations can definitely help to improve the feeling of using an interface, but are merely a small part of the user interaction. The animation can help a user to understand the path they’re walking on, but you need to make sure the path leads to the right destination and expectation.Animation can improve the user experience in your digital product, but not every animation is suitable for your product. Nokia did a research in 2010 in which they concluded that users have mixed feelings about animations as part of a transition. By using different speeds and animation curves they were able to determine which was the ideal animation.Computer generated animations are lineair by nature, while animations that make use of easing are generally experienced as more pleasing and natural. Nokia discovered that animations progressing from slow-to-fast are generally experienced as slow products, most likely because the product provides feedback slower than expected.The feedback a product provides should be as quick as possible to convey the message the product is responsive and fast, even if the path to the destination is slower in the end. Users generally are more likely to wait for something if you’ve already shown progress, so the faster you show progress the quicker your user is hooked. Just make sure your loading times are fast, and don’t show consistent progress and switch to this:We have collected a few examples in User Interfaces that enhance the user experience without being obtrusive or annoying.To ensure a user understands where they are in terms of time, they provide a zoom and scale animation to keep context alive when transitioning between screens. Because of the zoom animation the user is presented with an invisible layer-system where years are on the bottom and months are on top.Another great example of using animation to improve a transition is when opening and closing photos in the Facebook app. Tap on any photo and it will present a full screen view of that photo. To improve the experience, the photo on which you tap stays in the screen and zooms in, while the interface behind and around it fades in. Closing the photo puts it back in its place in the timeline. It’s really easy to track what is happening with your interface with these little animations.These animations are not limited to mobile devices. For example on the Iconjar website when you click a link to open a dropdown it will reveal in a seamless fashion. Because the dropdown grows and fades in, the user understands it originates from the link you’ve clicked.Animations don’t only offer aesthetically pleasing goodies, but can be real user experience enhancers too. It’s key too find the right balance between fun and function and make sure your user flow is great without animations too. A good transition is one that is not obtrusive, enhances the user experience and is fun at the same time.To wrap things up, here are a few links with inspiration for great looking transitions and animations:I make good user interfaces and code websitesThoughts from our people with a focus on UI and UX.

Since the introduction of flat design, the quality of animation has never been more essential for creating great interfaces. Through motion design, one can influence the overall brand experience of a product and set it apart from the market. Animation can make complex interactions simple and turn good designs into memorable user experiences. But how does one create The problem is that understanding how easing curves work can be a bit confusing. I hope to clear that up through this post, which stems from the interest in timing functions my previous article An easing curve is a line that defines the acceleration pattern on a graph. Easing curves are commonly referred by many other names such as Motion Curves, Timing Functions, Bezier Curves or just Curves. The different shapes of an easing curves also have keywords like ease in, ease out, or ease in out.Easing curves are created via an X,Y axis. The meanings of the X and the Y can vary from application to application. Within development, the meaning of the X and the Y states stays pretty consistent. Which is defined as Percent of Animation(Y) over Time(X).What does that this easing curve look like when put into practice? That’s where the concepts of timing and spacing come into play.Timing is the duration for an animation to finish. Spacing is the space between each “frame” but in our case it is the space between the each percent of animation. Below I have showcased how this spacing relates to an easing curve. Think of vertical = fast and horizontal = slow.Within linear easing the spacing of the dot travels is equidistant across the length of the animation. Within ease in the spacing of the dot is more condensed in the beginning and expands as the animation continues, giving the illusion of starting slow and speeding up. Within ease out the spacing of the dot starts large and condenses in the end, giving the illusion of starting fast and slowing down. Designing an Easing Curve People always ask me, “What easing curve do I use and when?” My answer — it really depends on the scenario. There is not one easing curve that work for absolutely everything. Crafting these curves is a key component of designing motion. Easing curves are commonly designed after physics within the real world but don’t always follow those rules. The real world is a great place to gain inspiration for animation. For example, no object in the real world starts at full velocity and immediately stops — like a linear easing curve does. Objects always have some kind of acceleration or deceleration. This is just one of the many concepts Disney has outlined in the When crafting an easing curve keep in mind that vertical is fast and horizontal is slow. The curve you create should be dependent on the interaction your designing. You can create many different types of curves within the (X,Y) grid.In addition crafting curves within the frame, one can break the frame! Breaking the frame will cause the animation to go outside of the values in between the keyframes. Breaking the frame can create bounce or anticipation effects.There are many tools for creating cubic bezier’s on the web here are a few:Easing curves within development are called “Timing Functions” which are mathematical equations that create a bezier curve that defines the acceleration pattern on a graph. The function that is commonly used within development is the cubic-bezier. That is what I will be going over in this post.Within most programming languages, there are some predefined easing curves like ease-in, ease-out, and ease-in-out. Be sure to check the documentation to see which curves are predefined. Below I listed the easing curves that are predefined within CSS.In CSS there is the “global” ease that can be defined in the object class, this applies the same ease to every keyframe. For example, if you have a bounce, the animation will bounce at every keyframe.You can get more precise with eases by defining them within keyframes. It is important to keep in mind that the easing curve is defined in the percentage value The concept of easing curves doesn’t just apply to a single animation but can applied to delays! Which can be really fun when there are many elements on the screen animating. Here is an example of a Sine wave delay. I created this by created a Sass loop and using Compass math helpers to calculate Sine.Product Designer 

A simple experience that opened my eyes to new possibilities took the form of a 170px smiley face. After a stressful day, I attempted to clear my inbox as a last-ditch effort to ease my mind. I had just downloaded the Gmail app and decided to use it instead of the standard Apple Mail app I had been using for years. I sifted through my emails and when the last one was archived, a little smiley face sun appeared with the text, “You’re all done! Please enjoy your day.” It was so unexpected, I couldn’t help but smile.This detail was so simple, but it made me realize that the tiniest detail, even an unnecessary one, can have a huge impact on a user. This detail came from a designer who realized that dealing with a full inbox can be stressful. To counter this, they injected a bit of fun into the experience and rewarded me when a task was completed (clearing my inbox). They could have just showed me a blank screen or a simple “no emails” message. But they didn’t, they added that little something extra. And it made me happy.At The first step to understanding an Whatever you want to call it, there is something that separates a good experience from an amazing experience. The words It’s important to point out that being thoughtful does not always take the form of humor or a clever detail — these are just obvious examples. Thoughtfulness can take any form, many times being very subtle. A great website dedicated to showing off these thoughtful details is Does something as simple as a well placed smiley face create lasting impact? Well, I’m still using the Gmail app and I look forward to seeing that smiley face every time I clear my inbox. These small but thoughtful details have a ton of power to motivate people, change behavior and turn an otherwise painful experience into an enjoyable one.When a user has an amazing experience it means they’ll choose that product over others. They’re going to talk about it and recommend it to friends. It’s truly a win for everyone involved (product owners, designers and users).In addition to making a lot of business sense, striving to create an amazing experience is something that can fulfill both designers and product owners on a deeper level. It may sound simplistic, but OK, a quick recap. An amazing experience consists of As designers, it’s our job to care about how people feel when they interact with something we’ve created. Having said that, being thoughtful can be really hard! We don’t always have enough time to fully understand our users before we need to boot up Photoshop. Sometimes the task at hand is so complex that our focus is completely consumed by understanding each possible scenario. Understanding edge cases and limitations does have value, but this type of thinking often lacks the human element that makes the user-centered design process so powerful.Over the years, I’ve come across a number of simple techniques that help me remain thoughtful while tackling difficult problems. This is by no means a complete list and the suggestions below may not apply in every situation. Having said that, I hope you find a trick or two to put in your toolbox.I think what it really boils down to is that using the right tools at the right time is important, but it’s not always enough. To better set ourselves and others up to create amazing experiences we need to Senior UX Designer @ Slice of Lime

Every social app out there relies on some form of invitation to get people to become new users. It usually involves an email or SMS sent to prospective new users, enticing them to sign up.On the web, or where people are using computers, this generally is considered a Solved Problem™. The user clicks a link with a special, unique code in it, instantly identifying them on the webpage, allowing the site to tailor the onboarding experience for the new person.In an iOS app, there are 2 additional complications:This means that even the best invitation flow looks like this:At this point, you would think the user would intuitively just log in to the app using the same credentials she used on the site. However, Luckily, Apple has been listening and watching how native apps have been struggling to transition a user from the web to an app and have offered a few solutions over the years, but they’re not so great, as you’ll see.I’m going to show you how iOS 9s Safari View Controllers might make this way easier, but first let’s take a look at what the current tools by Apple are:The first not-so-great solution by Apple is Smart App Banners. When your user is viewing your site in Mobile Safari, a banner can display across the top that lets you open this page within the app. With this, a trick can be to include some sort of auth token within the url, so when the app receives the url, it can perform a behind-the-scenes sign in.However, this only works if the app is already installed, which a new user is not likely to have. If the app is not installed initially, the smart app banner shows an “Install” link, which takes you to the App Store. After installing the app, the user would have to I can’t completely discredit Apple here though, because I don’t think they were designed to help this onboarding problem.The next not-optimal solution that Apple came up with is Shared Web Credentials. Essentially, if you save your passwords to iCloud Keychain (which you generally turn on at setup), then the app can access the passwords.You can create a special In the native app, it can query the shared web credentials and get access to the email and password and sign you in.However, in my opinion, this is not been a great solution: a) iCloud Keychain needs to be enabled, b) your site needs to have some of a password login, and c) the user must agree to save their password to iCloud Keychain At Safari View Controller is a pre-built browser that has all the bells and whistles of Mobile Safari, but can be presented without leaving your app.But there’s something else nobody has been focusing on: In addition to third-party services being logged in, For the last couple of years, I’ve worked on One of the biggest challenges for Cluster (and any app where content is shared to specific people only) is how to invite someone easily, and have them identify themselves to Cluster the same way they were invited (i.e. they use the same email address to sign-up with, that they were invited with).For the longest time our solution has been:For the most part, it works ok, but we still have people accidentally making new accounts with different email addresses, simply because they forgot what email address they had originally used. Then, they wonder why none of their private groups are showing up. To them it is as if Cluster completely “lost” their data.One workaround to this has been to somehow talk to our webpage, and maybe find out who the user is. We used a “Safari Bounce” technique where, from our app, we open a special URL on our site asking for a auto-login token. The server then checks the browser cookies to identify the user, generates a one-time token to sign in, and bounces back to our iOS app with the token in the URL.Since Safari View Controller shares cookies with Mobile Safari, launching it within our own app should at least let us do do the “Safari Bounce”, but much faster:Rather than opening a URL in Mobile Safari, you simply create an SFSafariViewController instance, give it the URL, and present it modally.The mechanics are the same as launching Mobile Safari; the webpage is still redirecting back to our app using an URL scheme*, even though it looks like it was communicating directly with our app.This already feels better. Apple even wants you to use Safari View Controller for OAuth in this way! The transition to opening the webpage feels smoother, and is generally a faster experience.Still, there’s What if we briefly launched a SFSafariViewController instance In the past I always worried about building a seamless first-time experience for our users. None of the “magic” solutions felt elegant.Using a hidden Safari View Controller to help identify your user removes user confusion and makes your app feel magical when users use it for the first time.With Safari View Controller, we now will have a way to “talk” to our webpage and learn a little bit about who the user is, and what they were doing, so we can do all of the following:iOS developer. Works on Thoughts and learnings about mobile development from the LaunchKit team.

Ive been speaking a lot lately. About design, creativity, UX, UI and interaction design. Mostly in my local community, but more and more, in the international context. I’ve given sessions in Berlin and Edinburgh in the past two weeks. Some things are easier to convey to someone abroad rather than back home. For instance, in Croatia, design is still regarded as a pretty narrow term. People The iceberg metaphor is a nice one. While I understand that most people from other industries only see 15—20% of this complex process, I would expect designers preaching the true meaning of design, the enormous size that is the iceberg.The complexities of design. The value that design thinking brings not only to a product or service, but to a business. The layers that go way beyond Visual design is just as important as Information design, Interaction design, Strategy, Prototyping, Content design, etc. Theyre all tools that enable good design. Parts of the process.The term tossed around a lot, UX design, is what I feel is true design. True design is a holistic process. Design was never meant to be a purely aesthetical part of the product or service. It was always meant to disrupt an industry, to improve lives, to solve problems. Although you can solve problems with a I’m gonna go out on a limb and think for a moment what would it be like if all Design was UX Design. Let’s deconstruct the term User Experience Design. The word So the conclusion one could reach is that Apple has always been thought of as a design driven company. Design is etched into every last pore of the brand. It’s not purely hardware or software design, it’s the entire If you havent, I would strongly advise you to watch Jared Spool speak at An Event Apart Austin 2013 — The talk that So why was it awarded? Because it disrupted the way government communicates with it’s citizens. So please, the next time we talk about design, let’s go beyond visual design.This entry is the 6th part of Designer. Creative director Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

A series of articles dedicated to web product User ExperienceAs a product designer who loves to work on mobile apps, I download tons of different mobile products every week — always looking for a new little interaction or great visual to inspire me. Sometimes, you come accross some very cool and interesting concepts, but most of the time, you get depressed, seeing that a lot of apps do not respect their users.In this first part, I will give some keys about :There is nothing more annoying than launching an app for the first time and instantly being asked to allow notifications. When you did not even had to see any introduction screen, there immediatly a native popup coming in front of your face saying “I want to spam you every day”.Imagine putting one foot inside a restaurant and having a waiter coming in front of your face asking “Give me your email address, we will send you our newsletter everyday”. How rude? Would you do that? Would you like somebody to do that to you?Just like in real life, there are some ways and timing to respect to ask a user for permission. Wether it is in order to allow notification, to subscribe to something, to give their credit card info, etc.What I usually do, and what you should also do, is to first come up with a screen, using your own design and graphic identity, in order to Some application, like Uber, are completely dependent on the user geolocation. Here is how they ask :Just the basic iOS modal. Now, everybody knows Uber nowadays, but what if I did not? What happen when I do not allow my geolocation, because I have no idea what they will do with it?I either have to set up my location directly in the search field or have to go to the settings and enable it. In both case, there is a lot of UX friction.This might be prevented with one simple step :Adding this extra popup does not require a lot of work, and it does not matter if it is one extra step before using your product, because it shows that you care about your users. It shows that they are safe with you and that you want to deliver the best experience possible.When I was working on my last startup product If you think that simply adding a “Facebook connect” button on your app will take care of all your signup problems, you never really tested it. Facebook/twitter/google connect are amazing and so useful, but unfortunately, not every user want to use them. So how to be sure that a user will create its account?The usual signup flow we all use is kinda crazy. It somehow is working most of the time, but, when you think about it, it makes no sense in terms of proper User Experience.In most of the app, there is a quick introduction or tutorial, that nobody really pay attention to, and then, you need to register before trying the service.In which kind of world, do you give all of your personal information, without even having experienced a product? It is the notifications popup all over again.What makes this flow complex is that, for a lot of product (like mine) you need all those personal information, for the product to function.But, if you can, just add a simple “Sometimes, you will need a lot of information from your users, for him to get the best experience possible. But there is nothing more annoying in the planet than filling up form. Even worse, when you won’t get anything valuable out of it. Let me explain.If I go on a shopping site, the platform does not asked for my credit card  personal info right away. It waits until I find something that I really want to purchase, to reduce the friction. And once I purchased it, eventually, it offers me to create an account (with a promo code for next time, if it is a good one).Same thing happens for every kind of product. When I download a new app which looks great, I want to try it right away, maybe I will give a username and email adress if it is really necessary, but don’t ask for my gender and birth date while we just met. Wait a little longer and explain to me why I should.When you interact with a human, the other person will respond. Not necessarily with words, but with a movement of head, arms or eyes. Something will happen as a response of your interaction. This is the exact same thing with machine. If the user initiate an action, the software What most of the application are using now whenever there is something to load are Have you ever been to a restaurant and waited forever before receiving your order? Having absolutely no idea about what was happening in the kitchen?Well, having a spinner during any loading time is the exact same awful experience.The first step, is to show the progress thanks to percentage, a round filling up, a bar or whatever, the limit is your creativity. Here is the first response and indication you can give to the user “You will wait What I do not like with progress bar taking the whole screen is that it completely block the user view and make him wait, no matter what.Depending on what kind of action is loading, you can use some tricks which will be very efficient in some user cases.In 2013, Youtube introduce its new progress bar, stuck to the top of the viewport, 5pixel high and flashy Youtube red. It is one of the best progress bar used now and everybody borrowed it because this pattern got a lot of benefits.Not only, it displays an idea of how long the user have to wait before the loading is complete, but it also lets you navigate and act on the product at the same time.While using a “progressive enhancement” approach on your application, it can add a lot of value to your experience.Never block a user when there are some content loading. You have no idea what he will be doing on the page.There are, anyway, some cases, when the user needs to wait. During a log in or signup for example.When a user is waiting on your app, he got a touch device, with tons of different features and a connection to internet in his hand. I bet, you can imagine something awesome.The best interaction between two human is when they talk together and exchange thoughts. Sometime, words are the best and easiest way to communicate, and when it comes to interaction design between a man and a machine, communication is the key. It does not require a lot, to add, under your progress bar, a sentence explaining what is happening. This way, you will give better information to the user and make your application a little more human, a little more natural.And please, Have you ever played a sport video game? On a controller, there are tons of buttons and the right combination are rarely instintive. This is why the loading screen is oftenly use for “trick and tips”. How cool is it when you just start a game and already know that “X + L1 + left” will make an awesome shoot and score a goal?Maybe this is the right place to explain this insane but totally non-affordant feature of yours?Next part will be about :By the way, I am looking for a job opportunity in the US, starting next October!Product Designer Service / UX / UI / Interaction ● Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Google’s job description calls for User Experience Designers that are critical thinkers with a good design sense, a strong technical background, and an eye for making things better. While these traits are certainly important, there are three main characteristics all UX designers should have to be successful in their profession.Having a traditional design or technical background is helpful but to succeed, a good user experience designer must possess curiosity, empathy, and passion. What do you think? Share your thoughts with me on Twitter (Lead User Experience Designer 

When designing a web or user interface, designers tend to… Ok, stop. You’ve probably started to think “Oh, another designers-do-this-designers-do-that” article and started to look for more interesting reading. We can all agree that eyesight is important when “view-ing” interface (LOL, duh) but there’s on more thing to it that’s even more important — the brain. Our brain is actually the processor that interprets all things that enter our eye through pupil, lens and optic nerves and as with any type of processor it has a unique way of interpreting things. What we, the UX designers, need to understand is how to Ever started analysing about your eyesight? How it So basically, there’s no way users can see your entire website at once — not even the half of it. Knowing this is extremely important when building interface elements that relate to each other — CTA buttons with marketing copy, warning and info messages with forms or checkout options. They all need to be close to each other to minimise eye movement and to decrease the chance to end in a blind spot.To understand more how will interface look like to users I have developed a primitive mockup system that mimics what goes on with our eyesight in that split of a second when our foveal vision focuses on something. It’s basically a different set of blur intensity depending on the distance from foveal area and it looks sort of like this.And here a slow motion of the same screenshot when users scan the page. Even when focused on single item other “sale” items are emphasised just enough to be noticeable in peripheral vision thus increasing the chance for eye detection. And here’s a bad example. The screenshot was taken from a Croatian job-listing website. I stumbled on this issue while trying to log in with the wrong password. Can you notice where the error message is before the screen changes? I couldn’t find it at all. After several failed attempts to log in, I just assumed the server had a problem. The “page flick” didn’t help out either; there was no visual cue or reason to look so far away from where my attention was focused.One could point out a lot of problems here: the lack of cues through iconography (a simple warning icon would have made all the difference), the unclear color associations (the header and some buttons look identical in color) and so on. But distance plays a crucial role here. Putting the error message closer could have been the hint that compelled me to read what it says. Proximity is important, wherever feasible.So remember, use that But let’s be fair. When dealing with large amounts of data on You know this from real life. Surely you have been in a ZOO staring at that artificial jungle looking for that snake or lizard. You know it’s there — but you just couldn’t find it. And then it moved and no matter where you looked you focused on it almost immediately.Motion can often be “miracle cure” to help you make users notice something. Our perception, our attention and our eyesight are all connected and it’s not just about what’s visually “strong” but it’s all about what we’re doing at the given moment. There’s an awesome experiment on attention conducted by two psychologists Christopher Chabris and Daniel Simons that’s called “Let’s say a person is trying to purchase a blanket on some imaginary webshop. He/she does his/her thing and gets to the checkout where he/she needs to input his/her purchase information. You’ve set up For some people that are not So, let’s apply this to user interfaces. Want to make sure that users will notice something? Animations can be useful on drop down menus, information labels, error messages or “add to cart” actions but use it wisely. There’s a thin line between making your interface usable and making it funky.Through our lifetime, we have gathered an absurd amount of experience and we have developed instant understanding for some symbols, shapes and colors. You know, arrow usually means movement, exclamation mark usually means warning, red usually means warning as well and so on… That sort of things. Use this human recognition ability to carry your message more clearly throughout your interfaces. If there’s a need to communicate some important message, don’t try to reinvent it — use the things people understand without having to explain it to them! Here’s why…I apologize in advance for making this next read so trivial but I’m trying to compress the vast knowledge about human psychology and perception in one paragraph of text. I’m sure that you do not want a 48 hour read in front of you.There’s something called “fast” and “slow” thinking. Nobel Memorial Prize winner Daniel Kahneman wrote a brilliant book about it called Here’s a simple experiment to help you better understand. Suppose you have a critical message that you want users to notice. Which of the following styles most clearly conveys the importance of this message?Is there one label that you understand in a heartbeat? You need to read the first two to understand what they’re about, but you know in a microsecond from the familiar warning symbol and color that the third one is communicating some kind of problem. Why is that? There are several things going on here but recall and recognition are key factors. Or brain has a superior level of performance for recall and image recognition compared to word recognition so understanding label or button that combines icon and text is much easier to understand and process. Just make sure to give your users a good reference point so their brains will be able to successfully compare images — stick to the symbols that fit the norm. Creativity and innovation is great but if you’re oriented on usability performance don’t try to reinvent the settings icon — stick with the gear icon, users will probably understand immediately what does this section refers to. And the red color? While keeping a brand’s color consistent throughout a website is important, breaking the branding rules to emphasize the importance of a message like the one above can lead to a much better user experience and make good business sense. Hopefully, this example shows how to bring in that fast thinking, reduce cognitive load and make the user perceive your interface as being intuitive and easy. Needless to say, applying these principles could reduce user errors, reduce server load, minimize frustration, draw more positive feedback from the community and reduce support needs. Simple decisions like this move mountains.With that in mind, it goes without saying that icons are a great way to trigger fast thinking, but do not use them without textual explanation! Since we’re all so dependent on our experiences, memory, recall and recognition it is only natural to understand that what is self-explanatory and trivial for one person might mean something completely different to someone else. While keeping the brand identity colors consistent throughout your product is important, disregarding it to emphasize the importance of messages like this one illustrated above can prove a much better UX and business decision. It can reduce user errors and save some server load, reduce frustration and help you receive more positive feedback from the community, reduce support team efforts which will result in a support cost decrease etc. Simple decisions like this one can move mountains.Okay, let’s summarize all this in four simple points:Obviously, this article just scratches the surface of human biology and psychology of user experience in UI design, but I’m hoping that it will help you out at least a little bit when building your next website or interface.So, that’s it for UI designer, UX enthusiast, everything in betweena collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

Even a product which has a great functionality may not satisfy user expectations. UI and UX are blurry concepts even for some designers. Many people think UX is sketching and wire framing interfaces. However, UX design is the life cycle of the product. Basically, UI defines the overall design, look and feel of the product and plays a significant role on first impressions. UX defines the interaction models, tasks, flows and creates communication scenarios with users. Users’ happiness mostly depends on the UX design.As a metaphor we can say that UX design is the “inner beauty” and UI design is the “gloss.” If your product has gloss but languish on the inside, your users will notice in a hurry.Designers should give equal importance to every step in the UX designing process.Successful user experience depends on consistency which I discuss in my previous post A big mistake nearly every designer makes: they assume their users perceive their product like they do. But they do not! Users will not always use your product the way you imagined they would. They will find their own ways. Users need to feel in control, rather than feeling controlled by your product. Being controlled or constrained by your product makes them uncomfortable. Collect clear and objective data from your users and design according to it. Otherwise, it will be inevitably lead them carving their own path.Information  navigation structure should be predictable and useful. Information structure is one of the most critical UX steps. When the information structure is illogical or changes between different mediums, it confuses users.Logical structure lets users know where they are and how to go back. You need to identify your product’s features according to “the most important — the less important.” This thinking process will help you establish a strong information hierarchy.Notice the new navigation structure of GitHub. The hierarchy is great and elements on the page have a key purpose, which makes the lives of its users easier.Even error messages have a significant role on users’ happiness. If your users don’t work in the web industry, they probably don’t know what “502 Gateway something, something…” means.Here is another and way to present error messages which helps you to ease your users and distract them with fun. One of the best examples is JotForm’s “404 page not found” error page which is consistent with our branding and acknowledges an issue in a humorous way.Other impressive examples are:User experience is not only about the usage of the product, it also includes communicating with users. I love it when I receive e-mail from a product which starts with my name “Hi Ecem, Great News”. I know it is mostly automatic but still it catches me. It feels like I am important to them as an individual user.Medium uses a great method that motivates their users; they deliver only good news to writers. And I think it raises the success of Medium.Even the best products couldn’t be prepared for every problem users might come across. A support team using various mediums including social media, email, online chat, and an online forum are a great solution.At There are thousands of user testing results on the web. Don’t assume all of them will fit with your product. Do not forget that you know your users more. (At least you should!) User tests for other products may or may not be relevant to your own users.UI / UX Designer JotForm related.  Ideas. Stories. User guides. From the founder of JotForm and others.

Last night, while watching one of my favorite shows — As a brief background, Gordon Ramsay is a famous, well-respected British chef with several successful shows and a After sampling the typically horrific entrees, Gordon immediately leaves the restaurant and walks into the neighborhood to chat with potential patrons. He casually, with true interest in the response, asks open-ended questions such as:Gordon uses these discussions to better understand the needs of the audience, as well as to what is working and what needs improvement within the restaurant. Similar to Gordon, we as designers must “get out of the building” and interact with users to understand their needs and preferences. By observing and engaging in a dialog, we can identify problems and determine natural behavior. Therefore, we design a solution that solves Most eateries that Gordon aids offer patrons a menu the size of a book or large newspaper with dozens of choices. To keep up with the ubiquitous demand, chefs struggle and regretfully cut corners. For example, they serve pre-made, frozen meals heated up in the microwave. Mmmmm! Needless to say, the patrons receive a meal that is mediocre at best. Consequently, the staff become overwhelmed and lose pride in their work. This is a slippery slope that can quickly ruin morale and ultimately the restaurant.Faced with this familiar problem, Gordon takes an elegant approach. Armed with his user research, he targets a specific style of food and narrows the menu to only a handful of desired choices. The new menu fits the needs of the patrons and eases the stress for choosing an entree. Even better — the staff has a clear and an achievable menu. No longer will they struggle to prepare a broad set of meals. The result — the staff is able to freshly prepare each meal and spend the necessary time delivering each delicious entree. As expected, the staff takes pride in their efforts and delivers quality meals! Customers enjoy the new entrees and staff morale rises!In the design world, similar to delivering entrees, focus and attention to detail are vital for product quality. When a team is concentrating on too much, they normally invest less time on the details. The team cuts corners and delivers features that may partially solve the user’s problems, making hollow promises to “make it better later” while releasing a less-than-optimum solution. Unfortunately, we fall into the trap of delivering loads of mediocre features and an equally awkward user experience. We’ve seen this before — users struggle to fully utilize the product and regretfully use it less and less. Armed with their frustration, users begin a search for a better tool or product and discover a better solution. Gradually, similar to the restaurant chefs, the team feels dissatisfied with product quality and morale declines. We’re left with an ineffective solution, frustrated team and a company that could struggle to compete.A more fruitful and yet difficult approach is to invest essential time deciding which user problems really matter and simply prune the rest away. If you can solve the core user problems more effectively than others, the odds for success are excellent.Along with the poor food, the restaurants atmosphere is normally gruesome and in need of a bit of refinement. As earlier, Gordon uses his research to design an aesthetic and style that matches the audience and cuisine. People are looking for a pleasant overall experience — delicious food is only one of the elements. If the decor or ambiance is uncomfortable or awkward, the experience feels unbalanced. No matter how skillfully prepared the meal, a space must balance the entree. A new sign, more comfortable seating, refined acoustics and other touches complete the delightful experience. The result — patrons are captivated with the delightful experience and staff are thrilled!Just as Gordon composes the right atmosphere for the restaurant, it is necessary to apply the same thinking to our product user experiences. The right blend of functionality, choosing the proper color palette, typography, transitions and iconography all contribute to an enjoyable and productive experience for the user. Taking the time to craft these details makes certain the experience is whole and finished! Users will appreciate the experience and continue to utilize your product for solving their problems.Most designers understand that user experience design is a challenging and continuous endeavor. Designing solutions to problems for people can be complex considering unexpected human quirks and behavior, technology limitations, and resource constraints. It’s essential that our first step begins with interacting with our targeted users to observe behavior, understand needs, and distill their priorities. Crafting smaller solutions with a razor focus on key problems can be challenging although the rewards are very high for users as well as the design team. Along with solving problems effectively, experiences should deliver a fitting ambiance that ensures user happiness and productivity. Indeed, Gordon would probably be surprised to see that his methodology, from problem-solving to aesthetics, is very applicable in other arenas — in particular, user experience design.Leader of Product Design, Aspiring Photographer, Designer, Developer and Dad!Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

We leverage the sounds of our morning alarm or the distinct beep of an unlocked car to communicate with our technology. Yet there’s an assumption that user interfaces communicate mostly through a screen, overlooking the power of sonic language.Ive been a designer for 16 years and I compose music as a hobby. These two skill sets have helped me reinforce the idea that user interfaces are meant to incorporate at least sound and vision. In my current job as a UX Designer at Udemy, my team has been working on a revamp of our learning experience. In a brainstorm session, the concept of incorporating sound in the interstitial screens of a course was surfaced. Excited, I started playing around with some synths and midi samples to create auditory feedback on lecture progress and completion. We experimented with different instruments, chords, and tempo. The challenge was to use audio to meaningfully illustrate progress while representing our values. This experience let me wondering… what if instead of using beeps and zings as auditory feedback on interfaces, we applied harmonies, notes, or chord progressions as symbolic sounds? What if we chose an instrument or set of instruments that speak to our brand and reflect the voice of our product? What if music was used in such a way that the user intuitively understood its underlying message?Although hearing is one of our primary senses, most interfaces today are primarily visual. Sound feedback can enhance user interactions, yet there is a reliance almost entirely on how things appear on the screen. Auditory feedback aids the user by enabling them to look away from the device to complete multiple tasks. This feedback is also helpful by demonstrating that an action has been registered, is in progress, or has been completed without the use of a screen. Designing with audio is not easy, though. There are many aspects to consider if you want to keep your experience pleasant, meaningful, and practical.I enjoyed the experience so much that I decided to compile a collection of musical sounds that others could implement in their productions. I ended up making over 200 audio samples of harmonies, sequences, SFX, speech, and chord progressions on 8 different instruments.You can download theBefore talking about music, let’s start with how we interpret and eventually develop meaning behind sound. Non-speech audio contains rich information that helps us understand our environment, a process that has become part of our everyday experience. Just by listening, we can determine when the batter hits the ball, when the velcro is detached, or when the teapot is ready. We’ve been using audio as a feedback mechanism in devices such as TVs, microwaves, cars, toys, and mobile phones. Auditory interfaces can function as useful and pleasant complements (or even substitutes with the rise of wearables) for visual interfaces.When designing with audio, it is important to define the specific meaning of each sound at an early stage in the process. A sound that communicates important information should be significantly different from one that serves as a complement to the visuals. Since sound is fundamentally different from vision, it can carry information that the latter cannot. Sound reinforces the first three principles of interaction design: visibility (affordances or signifiers), feedback, and consistency in a unique way.Auditory designs can be used to display patterns, changes in time, calls to action, notifications, or warnings. The possibilities are limitless, but that doesnt mean every interaction needs to include sound. Audio should enhance the experience, not interfere or distract. So users don’t get annoyed by repetitive sounds, it’s best practice to apply short and simple sounds that are informative by their form alone. That way the audio contains a meaning built into itself.While design is my primary passion, music has always had a special place in my heart. My musical background is not the most traditional, yet it’s pretty cliché: I started (horribly) playing the guitar with a punk band as a teenager, then transitioned to synth-punk with midis and DAWs, and then worked my way into nu-disco with synths and arpeggiators (James Murphy would shake his head). After “wooing” listeners with Throughout all my years as a designer and an amateur composer, I have discovered that the mapping of these creative processes is not so different. When composing a song, writing a comic, or designing an experience, your objective is to tell a story. You follow a basic structure: exposition, rising action, climax, falling action, and resolution. It’s all about taking your audience on a ride.The similarities dont stop in the structure. The dimensions of sound (pitch, timbre, duration, loudness, direction) are analogous to the elements of design (shape, color, size, texture, direction). And the principles of both music and design (composition, form, rhythm, texture, harmony, similarity/contrast) share similarities too.Why am I telling you this? Because I think that the sound and visuals of any interface should be homogeneous. For example, when designing a warning module, we might use a red color and an alert icon since these are familiar visual cues that the user would recognize as something dangerous or risky. Similarly, we could use an alert sound that is high pitched, loud, and has an unusual timbre. Visuals and audio on an interface should be related in an analogous or complementary way.Blackberry compares visual language of a graphical UI with sounds on their Choosing the right sound for you depends on the intention and feel of your product or service. On a fundamental level you can use speech sounds or earcons (the auditory version of icons) in your UI. Apps like Facebook, Tivo, iPhone, and Skype use earcons to create a relationship with their system. When using earcons, an instrument or set of instruments can represent a brand or establish the personality of a product. Should the sound be metallic or woodsy? Synthetic or natural? Big or small? Complex or simple? Asking these questions can help define the material and type (wind, percussion, or string) of an instrument and set a theme.The variations of sound have no limit. You can play with its many dimensions and yield completely different results with each combination. Additionally, the auditory dimensions affect each other such that loudness can influence pitch, pitch can change loudness, and other dimensions such as timbre and duration can influence each other as well. It can get a bit difficult going into all the technical details, and hiring a sound engineer might not be on everyone’s budget. So, I would recommend quick experimentation and trusting your gut when choosing a sound that’s right for your project (or you can just hire a kid in a punk band).Ideally, musical UIs should be partly iconic and partly metaphorical, meaning that they carry everyday sound attributes but also some abstract meaning like size, material, speed, or weight. I like to make the comparison of Regardless of musical education or background, most people seem to have some basic musical understanding. Playing with different attributes such as rhythm, harmony, instrumentation, melody, and tempo, can help define meaning and intention of each sound.A couple of apps that use music amazingly in their interactions are Musical messages can also be associated with feelings. In Western music culture, major scales are associated with happy feelings (e.g. most pop music) and minor scales sound sad or melancholic (e.g. The pack I created uses the D major scale. I made different sequences, progressions, and chords that can be used together in harmony. I plan to post an update as I continue to expand the pack with other scales in the future.The pack was created recording some analog and digital synths in Ableton Live. It has eight instruments (bell, guitar, harp, marimba, piano, whistle, flute, woodblock), a couple of SFX (R2D2 and X-Files), and some speech sounds (both female and male).Each instrument has between 20 and 40 sounds. When used together, they can represent a sequence of steps, success states, errors, notifications, alerts, and other simple interactions. I also included some subtle embellishment chords in case you want to add new life and a bit of spice to your product.The folder structure is pretty simple: “Music can affect how we interact with visual interfaces. It helps the user dive deeper into a story and engage emotionally. If carefully designed, musical interfaces can enhance an experience and personalize a product but if used the wrong way they can distract or annoy (remember all the early 00s flash sites  obnoxious personal blogs?). Audio is incredibly personal, we have to make sure to walk on the right side of this fine line when communicating with our users.I hope the pack I created can help you design richer experiences and inspire you to create amazing products. I’d love to hear your stories about incorporating sound in your UI and see what types of interaction orchestras we can implement across the web.-My passions are designing products, illustrating robots and monsters, composing quirky sounds, writing silly comics, and eating veggie burgers.Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

Technical debt is a pretty widely covered topic in the tech world. It was Product teams and their designers, in particular, grapple with their own variety of debt that seems to get less attention: user experience debt. UX debt is more user facing in nature than technical debt, but the vicious cycle that creates it is fundamentally the same:You know you’re a subprime borrower when your team decides to “clean this up next release”. But the next release has a backlog of critical bug fixes, must-have feature requests, and of course plenty of new design shortcuts that emerge in the process. What’s more, the usage data for the last release is showing great engagement and no one has complained yet about the shortcuts you took. Fixing those can’t possibly be a priority right now. Before long, the team is grafting one design shortcut onto another, and the only way to unwind them is a wholesale reboot.UX debt can be dangerously easy to both overlook and underestimate, making it that much easier to take on and harder to pay down. Relatively easy tasks, like tweaking screen layouts or updating visual assets, can be so easy that they sink to the bottom of product priorities (“we can fix that anytime”). Harder tasks, like refactoring user flows or redesigning navigation systems, can be paralyzing because they have system-wide implications and offer no clear path to make piecemeal progress.UX debt can also be less visible to internal stakeholders than technical debt. First, technical debt manifests in ways that are immediately apparent and painful to the team, like app crashes or site downtime or productivity loss. Executives set hair on fire when a site crashes, but who’s lighting the match when users stumble through a sloppy flow? Second, UX debt can degrade the user experience in such subtle ways that users aren’t always able to identify or express it, even when a team does the hard work to aggressively integrate user feedback.Trite as it sounds, Make it a cultural value to avoid shortcuts, technical and design alike, while in the grind of shipping product. Done right, this can flip the internal pressure from taking shortcuts to avoiding them.When the above isn’t practical, or even desirable, When your product does accrue UX debt, Let’s do our part as product teams to recognize and manage UX debt in its own right. Dealing with debt is never fun, but it always pays off.Founder • Product + Design • Intelligent Machines • 

Today, we are writing applications. And each application is connected to the Internet. Let’s just talk about those applications which are connected to the Internet. Often, when users perform some operation in the application, a server response is needed, so while this response is being performed, the user is staring at this:There’s no problem with that if you really need to have a server response, and you need to have 100% correct data only. But the thing is that there are a lot of times when we can easily avoid showing the spinner to the user, and trick the user, showing him what he wants to see rather than showing spinners during every user interaction, even if those spinners are cute.Let’s look at user interactions from the perspective of user expectations. When doing some operations in the application, the user can’t be sure about the result — before a publication is opened, it’s hard to predict its contents. On the other hand, some operations are highly predictable for the user:Often all these operations require an internet connection in order to be executed, and in badly designed applications, we often see a spinner after each operation. In very badly designed applications, we see a spinner which locks the whole application screen (and which we don’t have the ability to cancel).Somehow we need to convince the user that these operations are performing immediately. And here we’ll explain how we do that in our applications.This approach doesn’t require big architecture solutions from the start and can be implemented at any moment of the application development cycle, without any harm to the original. Still, there are few things which are not required, but highly recommended. These things aren’t new and you can find a lot of information about how to use them correctly and why you need to have them in your application.Taken from The View layer should reflect any data changes that are performed in the data it renders. Let’s say a person’s name was changed. Your view should behave correctly, and be able to update itself when this happens. In our examples UIViewController will be the object which will respond to the changes in the model and will tell View to update itself with new data.This is the object that is responsible for network operations in your application. You should have one (I hope you do). Also, it’s even better if your ViewController speaks with the Model layer, and the Model layer itself speaks with Request Manager. Again, this is not required, but this is how it works in our applications.Here’s how(probably) your application works now. This is waaay too schematic, but you can update it with your own Structural Units.So here’s what happens:In order to trick the user we’ll need to have just one simple thing — the Optimistic Model.The idea behind that is pretty straightforward. When the user changes something, the optimistic model gets the original object, tries to predict the potential result, then calls ViewController’s callback with this updated object, and then performs the actual operation in the background like the default Model. Once the real result is returned from the server, the optimistic model calls callback with the real object, or in case of an error, the Model performs callback with the original object and then calls error callback.If we highlight possible flows, they can look like this:Now, let’s look how the Optimistic Model implementation can look likeWith this simple update we were able to perform network operations “immediately” (at least from the user perspective).What do we have as the result?Now, press “recommend” button, and measure how long it takes to perform one simple action. Do you see the spinner there? :) So why would you put spinners in your application?I’m Lead iOS Engineer at Stanfy. I like and I do programmingSharing latest thoughts on our development-focused blog

As web and mobile designers our job is to build elegant interfaces. Interfaces that are key components in the user’s experience. Interfaces that allow them to get answers to questions or complete critical tasks. Our job is to help them achieve their goal.But don’t mistake these interactions as the entirety of the users experience. Great user experiences happen beyond the screen and in the gaps. Gaps between channels, devices and business silos. They happen when organisations pay attention to the nuances of their interaction with customers.Because user experience design touches so many areas it is often hard to describe. So instead let me give you some examples of interactions that help create a better user experience.The Barclays Mobile App is a great example of good user experience design. The app itself has an If you need to call Barclays you can do so via the app. This allows you to skip the authentication over the phone because you did that when you logged into the app.This is a great example of outstanding user experience design. I am sure getting the telephone system and mobile application to talk to one another was not easy. Yet no doubt it saves hundreds of users hassle everyday.If you have ever had to return a product you have purchased online you know it is not always easy. You have to print a return label, go to the post office and wait days for the funds to appear in your account. On top of which there is always the nagging concern that they won’t refund your money.In contrast I recently had a different experience returning a purchase. On letting the company know I wanted to return an item they told me the money would be immediately returned to my account. No waiting for them to receive the return and check it over.Next they asked me when I would like the package collected. I didn’t have to pack it, label it or even take it to the post office. Somebody turned up at my door with a box ready to go. I dropped the item in the box and he took it away.That is an outstanding user experience.I once worked with a client who sold frozen ready meals to the elderly. It is a group nervous of purchasing online. They do not like the idea of a stranger turning up on their door.To deal with this problem, when somebody places an order they see who their driver will be. That way they will recognise the person when they come to the door.But they don’t stop there. They also police check all drivers so the customer can be sure that it is safe.This was a lot of effort and expense to go to, but it caused a significant increase in sales. It was something that their competitors (like Tescos) did not offer.Talking of deliveries, have you ever had anything delivered by the courier company DPD?I hate having things delivered. Often you have no idea when your package is going to arrive and when you do it is either morning or afternoon.That means you have to be available and on the look out for the delivery man. Nothing is worse than finding that card on your door mat because you made the mistake of going into the garden at the wrong moment.DPD deal with this. On the day of the delivery they text and email you a one hour slot when your order will arrive. But even better they also allow you to track your delivery in real time. That means you can see where the driver is and judge whether you have 10 minutes to pop to the shops.Because of that user experience I get excited when I discover my package is going to arrive via DPD!Another client I once worked with was People are sensitive about their purchases from LoveHoney. They don’t want others knowing they have bought from there. That is why LoveHoney makes sure all packaging gives no sign of its content. The credit card statement for your product also doesn’t draw attention to where the purchase was made.LoveHoney are sensitive to the feelings and concerns of their customers.This kind of sensitivity to the users feelings is what creates a great user experience.Finally I want to mention They know many of their customers are looking for a gift but don’t know what to buy. That is why they built an app that connects to the users Facebook account.By analysing the interests of the users friends, it makes suggestions about what they should buy. They used digital to take the pain out of the buying experience.You might be thinking this sounds more like customer service design than user experience design. You might be right.The truth is we have so segmented our job descriptions that they often overlap. I believe user experience design sits at the cross roads of several disciplines. Disciplines including both user interface design and customer service.Whatever you choose to call it, there is an important lesson to learn. The experience of users isn’t limited to a single channel, device or part of your business.A dad, blogger, author, speaker, christian, husband, entrepreneur, boss, geek, optimist, web designer, digital strategist and podcaster.

Over the time working with user interfaces and usability, especially when I do user input forms, I have grown more and more aware of the fact that drop-down lists almost always are bad for the user experience.A drop-down list is used when there are a number of options in which the user is only allowed to choose one. It works very much in the same fashion as radio buttons do. The reason to use it instead of radio buttons, is that it takes up much less space. But I have already stated that A drop-down list suffers from a huge problem, the user can’t see all the options they are presented with directly. Instead the need to click to see the options, then scan through the options, then click to make a selection. This is especially bad when in a form of mostly input fields, where many users only use the keyboard.Here are some proposed alternatives that we should use instead of drop-down lists:Instead of hiding the options for the user behind a click, it should be laid out in plain sight. The user can then see what options she has and make an informed decision. Be sure to design the radio buttons so that it’s clear than only one can be selected.If there are only two options, then a drop-down should be replaced with a switch, and the most common option should be prefilled. A great example of this is chosing gender in a sign-up form. With a drop down, everyone has to do 2 click: selecting the menu and then selecting the choice. In a switch, where female is pre-selected (51% of the population), then only 49% of the users have to do 1 click. That’s a HUGE difference. Here is an example of the bad way, from Yahoo.com:It is widely accepted that the maximum number of items in a drop-down list should be around 15 items (some say 12, others say 16). If it’s more than that it easy gets confusing and a hard choice to make for the user. Scanning through a long list of items puts a lot of choice in the hands of the user. We should always strive towards taking as many options away from the user as possible. The less they have to think because we do the thinking in the background, the better.A perfect example is the country selector. It is still standard to add a drop-down when choosing your country of residence, and this is absolutlely So, are there any situations where a drop-down menu might be the best option? Well, yes there is. In any situation where you have more options than you can fit as radio buttons in your form, and where the users don’t know which options they are presented with. But this happens in very rare cases, and if it does it could be wise to re-think that typical field to make it easier for the user. For a great example of how forms should be designed, For final words, I give you this, which is a bit off-topic but needs to be said: If the field is optional it shouldn’t be in the form. Take away everything that is unneccesary for the sign up process, or unneccesary for the user. That also means you don’t need to put out * for mandatory fields. (If by some chance you still need to have optional fields, mark them as optional, not the other way around).UX Designer, nothing else. Internet is all that matters. I try to be funny when I write and love hyperboles. This is the Apegroup Blog. We are a digital agency in Sweden, with a main focus on mobile solutions. Designing and building for mobility and a life in motion. You have been warned.

Some say User Experience is a term used to describe a broad set of skills aimed at affecting how a user perceives, uses and learns a product. If you To take it a step further and use some terms a bit more familiar to us perhaps, we can take a look at Boersma’s model begs the question then, why not just call yourself an Interaction Designer, or Information Architect, or Usability Engineer, and so-on? Ah, I think we’re getting to the crux of the matter. First and foremost, no one wants to be pigeon-holed. Well, okay, not everyone. There are amazing Interaction Designers, Information Architects, and Usability Engineers out there, and they boldly proclaim themselves as so—which they should. As more and more larger organizations begin seeing the value of these specialized sets, we’re beginning to see many experts in these fields rise to the top and appropriately carry such a specialized title. But what about the Web Designer? What does he do? He’s the guy that “can do it all”, right? But now everyone with a pirated copy of Creative Suite, or a basic knowledge of Wordpress, is a “web designer”, so how does he distinguish himself from them? He calls himself a User Experience Designer. He touts the many disciplines of User Experience on his resumé and takes on larger, more ambitious projects. All is good and well, until all the other “web designers” start carrying the same title, and we’re back at square-one.The concept of User Experience Design was born out of good intentions, but is now such a widely accepted term that its value as a clear definition of what a designer does to affect good design is passing quickly. It’s a fad. User Experience Design is plainly, and simply, a set of tools and disciplines used to affect good design. There are no User Experience Designers—just good designers.Ever been to Disney World? Ever been to Universal Studios? Ever noticed the difference between the two experiences while you’re waiting for a ride? I’m always amazed at the careful attention to every detail that Disney puts into their attractions, and even the most mundane of theme park elements, to make the whole experience feel more real than reality. I would say, hands-down, Disney World has a better experience than Universal Studios. Both fun in their own right, but Disney’s is better.Dustin Curtis But have you ever been to Disney when it’s raining? When you’re sick? When there’s an annoying kid on line behind you? Not exactly the ideal experience, right? No matter how painstakingly Mr. Q and Disney worked to make the park the most enjoyable experience possible, there’s nothing they can do about certain aspects of a customer’s experience. They can design all they want (quite successfully mind you) for an experience, but never fully designing the experience itself.These unplanned set of factors are what Let’s apply this thinking of “situations” to something a little more tangible to us all, and something I’m a bit more passionate about—e-commerce.When was the last time you bought something online? For most of us it probably wasn’t too long ago, and for many this is probably a regular occurrence. Ever noticed your “experience” differ from site to site based on factors not directly related to the design of the site? Perhaps the item you were looking for was out of stock. Maybe customer service was rude and unwilling to help you with a question about your order. Maybe even the product you received wasn’t quite what you expected and the return process was painful. Or maybe not? Maybe all of those things went smoothly and you completely ignored the fact that you had to enter your address twice even though your shipping address is the same as your billing. Or maybe you had to click through 4 pages worth of product before you found the item you wanted. I don’t think any designer would argue these are design flaws and can be improved, but in the end, you were able to find what you wanted, check out, and receive your product. Plain and simple. And as long as nothing else major happened, your overall experience was satisfactory.So let’s stop fooling ourselves into thinking that a job title is going to change the way people perceive the way we do our jobs, or distinguish us from “the wannabes”. It’s not. It only complicates things and in the end we’ll just keep arguing about what to call ourselves in the years to come as our discipline grows and the tools and skill sets associated with our profession grow as well. We’re Designers. Let’s be proud of that. Being good sets you apart, not the tools and resources by which you are good.I mentioned earlier that within the broader field of User Experience there are many disciplines, and that as more and more organizations realize the need for a broader skill set in their designers that it makes sense for experts in these disciplines to take on specialized roles. Most projects a good designer takes on may not require full expertise in all areas of User Experience, but rather the know-how and discipline to apply those principles appropriately to his project. However, there comes a point in which the bandwidth of one designer as a generalist just doesn’t cut it. This is where specialization is key and an important mindset to consider for those of you out there trying to build a User Experience team.Director of Design for 

For the past 8 years, I have focused on designing digital experiences in a variety of industries and for a variety of clients. Throughout my career, I have gleaned a few lessons that helped me create In each application, the user interface (UI) must have a very clear goal or action. The UI on a screen should lead the user through each action quickly and easily.As you walk through your user’s journey and understand their needs every step of the way, you can appropriately select which features or actions you can place at which stage. For instance, Medium allows users to add comments to each paragraph as they are reading the piece, whereas the traditional style of reading content and reacting to it usually consisted of adding comments at the very end of a piece, thus making it hard for a reader to react spontaneously to a specific phrase or sentence they have come across.It is important to enable users to take actions, but these actions would not happen if users are not informed or aware of the possibility of taking such action, through affordances. Author, speaker, and design strategy expert, In simpler words, it is about making it clear and drawing the user’s attention to enable them to take action.I have found that the The best interfaces feel effortless to users. They avoid unnecessary elements and are clear in the language they use. Some best practices to consider are:Actions should be lightweight at the beginning, but as the user gets the hang of it, you can gradually present more advanced controls. The same applies for Design something beautiful and appealing, and simplify the underlying actions of your application. Author, designer, and computer scientist, John Maeda writes in his book, The same goes for user interfaces. Once you understand the complexity of the application and actions the user takes, you can work on simplifying things, by focusing on the core process or function at hand, rather than the underlying UI elements.Having empathy for your users helps you connect with their emotions, and avoid making them uncomfortable or offending them. In addition, understanding your users also gives you the knowledge to provide them with elements and patterns that they recognize and relate to.This is where the Emotional design can be brought up at different levels. Don Norman describes three levels of ‘Emotional Design’; visceral, behavioral, and reflective.Engaging your users is a very important consideration in retaining them. With the right cues, interactions, and patterns, you can give your users a very immersive experience. A few ways to do that are:Your UI should bring users delight rather than frustration. Having a playful interface can have a powerful effect on how users see and experience your application. Bringing delight to your application should be done both at the surface and deep levels:includes visible and obvious things on the interface:is emotional and invisible to the user. It includes:Ultimately, we all strive for making our users happy and delighted by providing them with the best user experience we possibly can. I have always kept these tips in mind during my work at the UX Designer @ SAP Labs Everything design @ SAP

Online grocery shopping is a lucrative business. Amazon has been dazzling customers for years with its core one-stop shopping platform. They make just about everything available and have become the first visit (online or off) for many consumers. Yet, AmazonFresh, has had difficulty reaching the same level of traction. This is puzzling. After all, who doesn’t want groceries delivered to their door along with their other Amazon orders?To examine why users were not flocking to AmazonFresh, I conducted a guerrilla usability study to identify its pain points.The research addressed these questions:The research did not address the on-boarding or the check-out process.I recruited 6 participants by walking into various coffee shops in San Francisco. I asked existing Amazon users to complete three tasks on AmazonFresh. I asked all participants to:Sounds easy, right? Wait until you see what I found out.After the interview sessions, I sifted through my collection of videos and field notes searching for themes.Three critical findings emerged that affects AmazonFresh’s user experience:So let’s start digging into what the pain points were.By far, the biggest cause of confusion and frustration was the search. Four out of the six users, either did not find what they were looking for or they got some strange search results.For instance, a user looked for gin. The result? The search found matches for gin and AmazonFresh offered irrelevant options. The search results confused users because the site misinterpreted their keywords. Some of these items just are not groceries (books should stay in the regular Amazon site.) The site offered too much irrelevant information to find effective results.Since 1994, Amazon.com has refined their search engine to:Everyone I interviewed uses Amazon.com on a regular basis and loves it. My recommendation is that AmazonFresh use Amazon.com’s established search patterns. Here’s an example:As you type in the item you are looking for, have the search bar auto-suggest the item and category.The idea here is to use information architecture and a controlled vocabulary to generate relevant search results.Five out of the six users found the AmazonFresh’s ratings and reviews section disappointing. This is because they expected an experience that was similar to Amazon.com.Let’s take a look at the page for People want to trust that AmazonFresh is delivering fresh groceries (i.e. boxes of crisp, uncrushed cereal or milk that isn’t uncomfortably near its expiration date.)To help build that trust, let users read reviews and ratings in an expandable section that is above-the-fold. This area can also be distinctly broken down into ratings and reviews as separate sections. Users wont’t have to scroll down to the end of the page to get an idea of the product’s quality.Here’s what I propose:By clarifying ratings and reviews, users can now decide if the product is worth buying or not. Also, by adding a call-to-action above-the-fold, users are encouraged to leave a review for products that have no reviews. This helps Amazon drive more trust and confidence from the community.Grocery shopping is tactile and visceral. Users like to look at the meat and produce when they buy it. Everyone knocks on the melon or sniffs the pear before they buy it.When one user was looking at milk, she asked, “How do I know it’s fresh? What’s the expiration date?” Similarly, another user had a hard time buying grated cheese. He clicked around, fixated on the photos: “I wish there were more photos…Is the cheese long grated or short grated?”In a grocery store you can use your senses to figure out if you want to buy that basket of strawberries. Is it fresh? Is it ripe? While we’re probably years away from widespread “smell-o’vision,” this means that online marketplaces for food have to provide this information to users through picture and text. They also have to provide some indicator of freshness (AmazonTransforming a tactile experience into a digital one is not easy. Granted, Amazon has done it before by introducing the Kindle. It took years of RD. In AmazonFresh’s case, it will take time for people to get comfortable with online grocery shopping. To help users break down the psychological barrier, here are two ideas:2. Relevant product information: Long or short grated cheese, expiration date, etc.To fix the broken search and review sections, use the established patterns from Amazon.com. Users anticipate information and the experience to be the same. Let’s make the user experience between Amazon.com and AmazonFresh consistent for search and review.However, AmazonFresh may have to AmazonFresh is still in its infancy. It has a long way to go, but if the organization can make a few incremental changes to the search, the ratings sections, the pictures and the information it provides, it can vastly improve the user experience. I, for one, may start actually shopping on it.Puppy and llama fanatic. Star-gazer. Technology is advancing. What are your feelings, insights, experiences with it all.

With plenty of great lists of UX Books for UX Designers (Alexander, also the author of The book, and the video series (in it’s entirety below), focus on the part of architecture that is rarely celebrated: how it is to live with it.The subtle differences of thought (agency, impact, mode, dynamic, direction) are encoded in the words we choose, the words we use. Steven Pinker brings his lens to bear on the mind/language connection.The creative process is a mysterious thing. We end up wearing lucky socks we refuse to wash, or touch the lock four times before opening. It’s hard to separate out the superstition from the stuff that really makes a difference. This focus on the creative process is meant to strip away all the myths and empower each of us to be more creative.Insisting that even the most prosaic of design artifacts tap into the talismanic power of the visual for conjuring beauty, power and human connection, Munari is a giant in the realm of graphic design.Metaphors are complex systems of understanding and explanation that rule so much of our communication and cognition. There is very little in our language that doesn’t leverage a metaphor (“leverage” for example). Drawing closer to the robust, complex and powerful machine that is the human mind is alway humbling and inspiring.The underlying mechanisms and dynamics of meaning, art and craft receive a new bright light of attention from this titan of philosophy in a dizzying tour of the arts we are engage in and bolstered by.Our words and heart and heads connect in ways that often get glossed over. The lauded novelist brings his wit, scholarship and craft to unpack the ways our minds bend to the words we use.A visual exploration of the intersection of literature, visual performance, and history as a writing system soars to artistic heights that transcend language, centuries, meaning and culture.Before he was Poet Laureate, Robert Hass was known for his brisk and intelligent poetry full of pathos and intellectual honesty. Here is a collection of essays on some of the 20th Centuries poetic colossals: Robert Lowell, James Wright, Tomas Transtromer, Joseph Brodsky, Yvor Winters,Robert Creeley, James McMichael, Czeslaw Milosz, and others. He is interested in the movement, the music, the ideas and structures of these poets’ great works.discovering the world bit by bit as founder of 5ThingsILearnedToday.com, and Director of User Experience Designing for Other People

There is a horrifying term in aviation, called the death spiral, or the William Langewiesche wrote about this in an old essay for the Atlantic, called What Langewiesche writes about in The Turn is that there was a transition, in flying, from the daredevil fly-by-feel pilots to those that trusted not their instincts but their instruments, and that it was this slow transition towards understanding the physics of flight and the limitations of our own senses that made air travel safe and turned it into what it is today.On the web today, we are seeing a similar transition happen. People are measuring user engagement more closely and more granularly, and there are similarly more tools and instruments to allow us to monitor mouse movements, clicks, and behaviors. The rise of the growth hacker is a sign of the real value being assigned to being an expert at instrumentation.And for an industry defined by growth, It’s seductive, seeing easy gains in an otherwise exhausting process. But it is also dangerous. Interstitials, engorged call to actions, points earning — sometimes these changes focus and simplify the product, and other times they strain it, turn the product’s voice from calm to grating, cause the product to lean in too close, interrupt people mid sentence, hold handshakes too long. Sometimes companies emerge from the clouds caught in a I have been thinking about this as the i want to spend the rest of my life everywhere, with everyone, one to one, always, forever, now

As a user experience designer, the one thing that should pulse through every thing you do is to create the best possible experience. Why is it then, when you need to apply for a job, you default back to a generic cover letter and a 46.9 mb PDF with 8 captionless images?User Experience. Before you apply for your next role, I beg you to design your application. I don’t mean choosing the right typeface, colour scheme or getting your parallaxed-to-the-death website developed. I mean figuring out who your user is, the best way for you to attract (and hold) their attention. Let them interact with the experiences you’ve created, learn about your methods and solutions, learn about you. Create a video, create a targeted website for the role, create a dance. Anything.This is supposed to be your damn job.Lead Taxidermist at 

As a designer at So, I’ve created the Here are three reasons I can’t live without it:After doing user research with many different types of Labs clients and users — and learning from the best lean researchers I know — I’ve captured the research process I find most useful in 8 simple lists. These lists document your weekly research iteration’s…Anyone on your team can fill out these lists by working through the five checklists. The checklists detail what steps to take…Along the way, you’ll be reading best practices, tips, and examples for every step — including how to set realistic research After the lists have been filled out and checklists completed, you’ll end up with both well documented research sharable via Trello, and a list of action items that will change your product for the better.What are you waiting for? Looking for more Trello magic? Check out David Ghent’s Product Designer at Pivotal LabsProduct and Design advice and stories from the folks at Pivotal Labs

After I wrote “Call your friend up and ask him/her to intern on 1 project — No better way to learn.Watch, take notes and participate. At the end of each day ask a bunch of questions. Be at kickoff meetings with engineers and product managers, try out wireframing, creating user flows, moving pixels, validating product direction through user research… try everything. You will learn a bit more about what you would be good at and where you need to improve your skills.No worries! UX folks are friendly. You can attend free UX events in your city or talk to folks through twitter. Here are a few folks I would recommend on twitter:Also, read a lot of great content! Here are a few websites where you can get started:You can get a free UX ebook Lastly, watch videos of great designers who love their work and sharing about their work. Here is one that will get you pumped!Friend or no friend, the formula is the same:Join a local chapter of a UX organization so you can network. There are many organizations.Here are a few with local chapters: Stay away from the huge conferences and try to attend smaller gatherings. PRO TIP! Instead of just attending, you should volunteer.It is much easier to impress someone by being a great volunteer than by having a 30 second elevator speech. They will still remember you a year later if you volunteer and do a great job, whereas your elevator speech will be forgotten probably by the EOD.If you have no UX experience, you really need to learn and practice UX. You can go the traditional route or you can be creative in how you educate yourself about UX.Going to a strong program in Human Computer Interaction, Human Factors etc… has awesome positives. You will learn quickly, get plugged into the community and do a lot of projects. If you go to a good program you will get a good job at the end of it (I have list of programs I know and recommend at the bottom of this post). The downside for some is the time commitment and financial burden one may incur.Not everyone can afford to go to school.Learning through bootcamps.Learning through the web. Interaction-Design.org, General Assembly, Skillshare, Coursera, Udemy. All of these websites have human computer interaction and ux courses. You can learn at your own pace and then try to do projects for non-profits or friends. If you are good at learning on your own, this may be the cheapest way to get there. However, it may also be the tough to build a good network through these courses.Traditional programs usually hook you up with internships, but if you are learning on your own, well then you have to fight for one. While you are volunteering at a UX local event, tell the UX people you meet that you are new. Tell them all the stuff you have learned on your own and how you have done pro-bono work already and convince them they will be really happy if they give you an internship/apprenticeship. Then roll up your sleeves and go do great work!Follow me on twitter: FYI, the programs I am familiar with and would recommend are: To learn about UX career salaries, take a look at If you are still reading, it means you are really motivated. Get started today to learn about all UX stuff on open free online courses I am an inventor who tells stories through design. Now 

404 pages are those error pages when the URL is not right. Don’t leave these 404 pages as the default error message. This is a chance to not only customize and show some humor, but to ensure that along with the error message, you are still helping the user find what they were looking for. The page can serve to educate, encourage visitor to re-search, or display popular links and contact information. You can minimize the damages by using a custom 404 page and have a second chance to re-engage the user.There’s (Bonus: When it comes to image carousels, it’s important that the user can play and pause the carousel themselves as well as control cycling through faster.)— — — —Huge thanks to Julie Blitzer 

About 8 years ago I was invited to a dinner organised by a VC firm in London. It was a discussion dinner with a few entrepreneurs and investors talking about current trends and topics in technology.When I looked at the attendees list profiles, one particular person caught my attention, lets call her Kelley.Her profile stated:I was “intrigued” to meet this expert and thought leader, and rightly so, she was charming and a true expert, not only on user experience, but pretty much on everything. Throughout the evening she told us what is wrong with most successful companies in the world, it went something like this:There was no particular explanations behind these statements, thought I suspect that these companies were mostly doomed as they didn’t enlist her user experience ‘expertise’ to fix their problems.Thankfully there was something positive, it was about the music startup that she was building at the time and how it would revolutionise everything from music to e-commerce to social networking and content. Sadly that company never launched to show us how it’s all done by the “experts”.The reason I remembered this story is because last week, I had a meeting with one of these user experience ‘experts’. Someone who came to my office and spent over an hour criticising every aspect of our website. He criticised everything, the fonts, the colours, the images, the navigation, the login options, everything… After about an hour, he suggested that as he can already see how much value I am getting from this conversation, I should hire him as a consultant at $170 per hour. I am still considering it…This made me think, perhaps I can be an ‘expert’ too, for example a car expert:Anyone can criticise and scrutinise anything, in fact it is easier to be negative then positive, but baselessly criticising everything doesn’t make you an expert, it makes you a grumpy douchebag.So WTF is a user experience expert anyway. The English dictionary defines an expert as:“A person who is very knowledgeable about or skilful in a particular area”Doesn’t sound that it is related to aimlessly criticising everything in your field of expertise.In reality the only path to being knowledgeable or skilful is having done it before. You may be good with UX design, but unless you have worked on something that’s used by millions of people and/or generates millions of $ in revenue, you are most likely not a user experience expert.So if you think you can do it better then anyone else, go and build something awesome and show us all how it’s done. Bad writer, entrepreneur, wannabe R developer, coffee lover. Stories  reflections from London’s tech  startup scene. Join the conversation at techlondon.io

As user experience fanatics, there’s a no shortage of And over the years, I’ve picked up a lot of useful tools and techniques. Many more than I could ever list in one sitting. But there’s one thing that I feel is above all the most important thing to remember:This is my mantra. By a “sustainable system”, I mean that we need to strive to create projects that will last over time. Trends will change, priorities will shift, and our projects need to be structured intelligently so they don’t get ravaged along the way.Here’s some things I’ve found to be very helpful:I cannot emphasize this enough.When we create re-usable components, we’re not only making our lives easier as developers, the end user experience is much cleaner as well. Consistency is everything on the front-end; consistent clean code will ultimately lead to a consistent user experience.If you’re just getting started, I’d recommend Sass mainly because it’s the most widely supported at the moment; but it ultimately doesn’t matter which one you pick: you can always change your mind later, the logic behind them is what’s important.The larger your codebase gets, the harder it is to keep a handle on all the different styles in use. Preprocessors let you do cool stuff like:I could go on, but you get the idea. If you’re not using a preprocessor, start now.In the development community, there seems to be this idea that “someone who knows what they’re doing doesn’t As someone who’s been writing front-end code for a number of years now, I’d say that’s crap. We don’t need to keep re-inventing the wheel for every project we build.Think of how many websites/apps you’ve built that need things like buttons/modals/link styles/form styles. Think of all the time involved in building that, and building it well.Using something like Bootstrap doesn’t mean that you can’t code. It means that you’d rather spend your time focused on interesting and challenging interface problems instead of styling buttons over and over again.I’m not at all opposed to using these types of front-end frameworks as ultimately, they free up my time so I can focus on what’s really important: the content structure, flow of the site, and finer details of the user experience.These are some thoughts on how to build sustainable front-end systems for the web. Have some more? Feel free to add feedback, I’d love to get other opinions and ideas on this subject.Design, code, and everything in between. 

A series of articles dedicated to web product User ExperienceThe current Operating System for mobile applications separate every services. The users see on the home screen every apps he downloaded, without any connections between each others. I like to imagine each application as its own world, as a complete experience. The home screen is Super Mario 64 castle while the apps are the paintings, leading to the levels.Just like the cinematics starting a new level to reveal the new environment, when a user first launch an app, he has to be introduced to your service, your rules and quickly understand why he will love it.Nowadays, there are so many new digital products coming out everyday that yours need to stand out during the first minutes the user will try it. Make your value understandable and create a vibe. A good atmosphere directly linked to what you want your service to feel like and in perfect harmony with your potential users.Here is the worst first screen your app could display :A logo, no information at all, just buttons for me to login, without even knowing what I am registrating for. Now, if your name is Snapchat during its “ahah moment” you might have the right to do this. But I guess that you are not and even though, you should never treat a user like this. He is the one making your company valuable, so he deserves to know what he will be using before signing up.The least you can do, is designing a beautiful first screen, semi-flat landing page style! A big background image, the logo on the top, a catchphrase in the middle and different ways to connect (with 1000px rounded buttons of course).Those very minimal and direct introductions should not be designed. When you build an app, you want it to be downloaded, used and shared.It is quite hard to design a great introduction and lots of designer go for a slideshow-alike quick intro/tuto. When well designed, with nice parallax effect, animations and illustrations, it can be pretty effective and set a mood to your product.Some of them are very basic and static, explaining the concept and showing the interactions of the app :The good point here is seeing the actual interface thanks to an illustration. So the users will have an idea of how to use the app.While others are very complex, with a lot of work put into it :See how every assets are animated? With the video in background. It really is better than a poor static screen.There is actually a second step to the onboarding on Cirqle, using the content of the app explaining how it works.It is interesting because the user is brought directly to the application.This second tutorial is displayed inside the content of the application so we understand a part of how the interface will work. Also it does not require extra and specific development work. Just pictures and text. ( But, in my opinion, the main problem of all Cirqle’s onboarding is to be very time-consuming, with a lot of content to read.Depending on the type of service you are providing, your first approach should also take in consideration different user cases and try to find the best way to explain your app while displaying content as soon as possible.Of course, in other user cases the experience would not have been the best. What if I had no idea what Citymapper is used for?Last week, someone hunted Here is what happened when I opened the app for the first time :Not very nice, I thought. No catchphrase? No explanation? Look a little empty. A nice character though, and I am new here, so let’s click that flat button.The application show all its features during a great flow using only the actual feature of the application. It mixes tutorial and introduction. And great bonus point for the little guy staying with you.When Snapchat went crazy, all my friends started downloading it and snapped everything. Here is the first image you got when you open Snapchat for the first time :No intro, no tutorial, no catchphrase, no nothing. I really like Snapchat, I find the concept amazing, some interactions are very well thought and I think that this application radically change the way we use internet. But its onboarding is so poorly designed that I still have friend asking meWhen you sign up on the service, you just have access to a snap video explaining the most basics interactions and three messages.Now, I know that they do not need to engage users anymore nor explain the value of their app during the first launch, but here is what I would have loved to seen on snapchat first connect :Directly on the first screen, you have one catchphrase quickly explaining the concept plus, you are managing the two main onboarding user cases :Here, you directly display your main action interface. No need to signup now, we are just exploring the feature. When you go to buy a car, you want to drive it first and try it, before spending your money.What if during it’s guided tour of the app, Snapchat provided you some examples and help into drawing an awesome first snap? With an extra invisible layer on the photo, the user would just have to follow the line to transform its photo.Maybe it seems a little childish, with the ghost and everything, but what is happening here?Now is the perfect timing to ask for personal information. Why? Because the user just spend maybe 30 seconds looking on your product, playing with it and understanding it. You made him create its own first content, so he developped some sort of connection with it.In my opinion, what matter the most when onboarding new users, is treating him with respect by thinking the best flow possible and giving a taste of what is your service. If something is amazing, I will definitely sign up and share it, looking for social recognition. But do not race through stages.which I would like to combine with one of my favourite quote :This is exactly what I want to feel when I download a new app. I want, while entering the world of a product, think to myself “Oh My God, this is so awesome, I will be able to do so many things now! I urgently need to share it to all the people I know.”Let’s have a look at an app like Foursquare. I followed all the updates as the good product design addict that I am, but never actually used it nor found it useful. I even found all the notifications a bit annoying and never saw value out of them. Until This is awesome, you should have insisted on that during your onboarding guys.Of course, there is not one good recipe, but just a lot of different spices you can try and add to your product until you find the perfect match to your experience. I deeply believe that every application is its own world and should build its on appropriate experience.Next part will be about :By the way, I am looking for a job opportunity in the US, starting next October!Product Designer Service / UX / UI / Interaction ● Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

We’re surrounded by advertising from the moment we wake up: it’s on our coffee cups, on TV, and driving in front of us on the way home. But we can always turn it off or tune it out.Augmented reality (AR) is the new way of layering digital experiences onto our analog world.The difference between your life right now and a life with AR is that right now, you can escape advertising.The difference between your life right now and a life with AR is that right now, you can escape advertising.Let’s take a trip back to the early 2000s: websites were Pop-up ads.Pop-ups took a direct-mail approach to capturing impressions by attempting to monopolize a person’s field of view. Referring to a pop-up that automatically started playing audio, a “IF ANYTHING COULD BE WORSE THAN POP-UPS, THIS IS IT. I HATE THIS AD. HATE HATE HATE.”As we figure out how to communicate in the added dimension of AR, things are going to be messy. But this time around, How to reach people in AR without being obnoxious:My social rhythms look something like this:AR should complement and enhance social rhythms, preferably without needing to constantly tweak preferences.How AR might be useful with my social rhythms in mind:AR should complement and enhance social rhythms, preferably without needing to constantly tweak preferences.You’re buying shoes online, and during the checkout process the store asks if it can send you email and text notifications, and also if you’d like to download their app. You could either opt in or tell them to get lost.The same model works for AR, but the trigger may be different. Let’s take a look at how an AR device might watch for behavioral clues to interpret interest.The augmented world will be just like our current world, but with a little extra. 2 additional examples of how that might play out:Push has a relatively low time/concentration cost, and unlike pop-ups, it’s an opt-in for the user. That opt-in is crucial.OOH lives in high-traffic areas and can take many forms like billboards, kiosks, posters, and wrapped vehicles.2 arguments for using AR in OOH:Someone will set boundaries in AR. Maybe there will be special districts without advertising. Maybe buildings will charge for the placement of an AR banner, or maybe it’ll fall under free speech. It’s difficult to predict this early on, but I think the future will be a lot more colorful and active.When you’re designing and developing new apps, explore new interaction models — don’t reach into an old bag of tricks that were designed for a different time.Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

Mihaly says that people can compute about 110 bytes of information per second. He backs this statement up by elaborating and saying that on average for an individual to understand what he was saying on stage it would require about 60 bytes of information to be processed per second. That’s why it’s hard for people to understand two conversations simultaneously but easy to hear and distinguish between them.That’s a great question, if you have stuck around because you are wondering how the dots will connect, awesome! If you already know how the dots connect, find me on The idea of flow relates to user experience design because it compliments the idea of designing for context.People can be so concentrated on one thing that the subtle background processes that we usually are slightly aware of seem to fade away. It is possible for people to be so enthralled in what they are doing that they forget about the idea of existence, and their consciousness can’t even begin to think about the fact that it has an identity. People often define this feeling as “time flies”. It happens when hours feel like minutes; when what you’re doing becomes the only cognitively aware state of reality.Aid the user to an ecstatic state of interaction where their current actions are the only perceivable state of reality. It may sound strange, or even an impossible task but it’s not. It happens everyday to hundreds of millions if not billions of people, including yourself.If you’re wondering how this is possible, it’s easy. Did you forget about the idea of time while reading this article, or rather did you forget about the responsibilities of your life? This happens multiple times a day when we use really well designed products.The fact of the matter is that people can experience a mental state where existence is suspended. You can aid a user in the discovery of that mental state and help them into a new temporary state of reality by designing with flow and context in mind.** As a designer we have a great deal of power. While that may be the designer ego speaking, we really do have a huge responsibility to design experiences ethically, and use patterns that aren’t harmful to the user. I personally don’t think that “flow experience” as Mihaly describes it is a dark pattern, but there is a time and a place for it. Context is critical.I am a Designer at MindSea Development Inc.A collection for new and student designers.

In 2011 Emma Coats, a storyboard artist at Pixar tweeted the ’22 rules of storytelling’. They did the rounds and became well known and were also recently re-done as As I was reading them I felt drawn to the message Emma was trying to convey. Stories create experiences — great stories make for great experiences. Put heart into your stories and consider your audience.In the field of UX it’s similar but different. We’re trying to understand our users’ stories, but then craft a new one for them that makes them happier and makes their life easier. I made some minor changes to see if I could adapt them.Successful UX is about making assumptions and then testing to validate. We do this with user research, we do it with stories and we do it with prototypes. The key is to define assumptions, test, refine and repeat.This always yields better outcomes than spending six months work on a ‘Ta-da!’ piece, and your UX process is what smart employers will be looking for, as noted in this This is basic but something we are all tempted to forget. It can be exciting when you’re in Photoshop and motivated by the latest new interfaces to go haywire and design the most beautiful and exciting feature set to date, but we know that this isnt what excites our users or makes them happy.Keep your users in focus before you start designing — otherwise you’ll get carried away and fall into the trap of being attached to something youve invested too much time in.It’s easy to fall into the trap of wanting to create a sense of consistency within their product — it’s something we cling to, a basic principle that we feel will make things ‘easy’. I see this a lot — many people new to experience design focus on this idea of ‘consistency’ as it sounds safe and makes them feel comfortable.In reality, consistency only works at a specific level and doesnt work on the level of interaction design or product design. There are existing design patterns that are helpful to start from as they generally play to users’ expectations of how things will behave, but arbitrarily going for ‘consistency’ without consideration for it’s impact on usability or experience is dangerous — especially if you don’t validate with testing.Tell the story of your user. People can relate to stories — they’re a powerful way to convey the feeling of the experience, and empathy and understanding of someone else’s perspective and context. This is important when you can’t bring everyone on the team with you to research sessions — you need to be able to bring the team on the journey in other ways, stories being one of them.It helps to define the baseline state, a user’s day to day life and work. Define the events and edge cases that would make a user behave differently. Explain the reasons for particular behaviour or choices.The ending is about how you craft an experience that improves on their existing one.This was a key lesson for me as I journeyed through different projects. Features seem to feel really important when you come up with them — and you feel like you need to account for absolutely every angle. The experience starts to get muddy and complex — but what do you get rid of?It actually takes a lot of courage and focus to strip away the unnecessary and simplify experiences — because it feels like you’ll be missing something. The truth however is that users are generally happy to go without ‘bells and whistles’ — because as long as they can do what they needed to smoothly and seamlessly, they’ll be happy.This is clearest in the example of the iPhone. When I worked as a phone salesperson a long, long time ago my team and I would agonize over the fact that while the iPhone seemed to lag behind in both specs and features — customers would still pour in to buy it.Why? Because it was such a streamlined experience with a focus on things users would do most and a clear separation and delineation of the different sections of the interface.Getting comfortable and assuming for the best is the worst thing you can do with a design or interaction.Interactions don’t always go smoothly — in fact a lot of the time your planned interaction falls apart under the ‘killing field’ of usability testing. The kindest thing you can do for your design is to find the lowest common denominator and test the interaction with them.Similarly, designs don’t always hold up in the ways they need to. Consider how your design needs to hold up on different devices or screen resolutions — or what would happen if someone with vision impairment needed to increase the font size.Your product needs to deliver a particular value proposition, experience and business benefit — and these need to be defined before you start designing.The questions of ‘how do we deliver this benefit?’ or ‘what value proposition will engage users?’ or ‘what does the experience look like?’ are fundamental and need to be explored first as the answers will have a huge impact on the design.If your design isn’t based on the answers to those questions, it’s very likely that it may not succeed in delivering business benefit or enticing users to use it — no matter how beautiful or usable.The question here is ‘how fast can you go’? In lean  lean UX the term used to describe the minimum needed to learn and move forward is ‘Minimum viable product (MVP)’.This doesn’t mean creating a prototype that is so flimsy that it can’t be used as a test, but it does mean considering what excess can you strip away from your prototype/test cycles.Stay away from Photoshop and Axure in the beginning — these will slow you down. It’s not about deliverables anymore — it’s about being lean, communicating within your team and avoiding ‘perfection’.What Really this is about Whenever you respond to a design, the things you feel are ‘cool’ or ‘trendy’ stem from things you’ve been exposed to. If you dig into these you’ll identify design patterns, trends which are actually frameworks which you can then use to branch out from and create new designs.This means you need to explore. Find designs and experiences that inspire you. Look at some of the best new content on sites like I didn’t have to change the words for this one — it translates perfectly. It’s just so applicable across disciplines.Have you ever had an idea you thought was so great — and you spent a lot of your time trying to stand up your idea and defend it?Hopefully this happens to other people and not just me. It’s a bad habit— you tighten around your idea and become closed off to other peoples’ ideas. You also don’t see the flaws in your idea or ever explore it.Getting things on paper — and not just you, your team as well- is a great way to shine light on ideas, share ideas, bounce off each others’ ideas and create great new ideas that no one could have created alone.There’s no such thing as the ‘solo genius’ — beware of anyone who tells you otherwise. Don’t feed into your own delusions of grandeur — I am constantly surprised and amazed when I open up and share my ideas and listen curiously and openly to the ideas of others.Be the person helping others get their ideas down and sharing gold, rather than the hoarder trying to progress their own.It’s really important to go broad when you ideate — because as soon as you get hooked on a concept or idea and start to converge and move forward, all the possibilities you didn’t look at never get a chance to be explored and you could potentially be missing a better solution.I’ve heard people say that if you can get your surface thoughts out, the new ones that arise spontaneously are some of the most creative. There are some great workshop techniques that help facilitate this such as affinity mapping and design studio workshops.You need to understand your user base — but you also need to facilitate and share this understanding with your team.If you haven’t done sufficient research and don’t really understand the people you’re serving you can’t really explain this to your team. The stories you tell and the personas you explain won’t have depth or substance — and this will impact the decisions the team make and the meaning they feel their work has.Don’t become the fountain of opinions — find empathy and share it with your team.Sometimes we create experiences that drive off deep seated beliefs. We have to be aware of ourselves and what influences us so that we can understand if it’s coming from a place of wisdom or somewhere that is fuelled by strong but not necessarily valuable opinions.Sometimes your team will go ‘really? REALLY?’ when you tell them that this isn’t going to work out for a user. Why? Because it’s hard to understand the perspective of a layperson when you’re in the position of expert.This again is about storytelling and conveying emotion. If you can explain how a user feels and the underlying motivations then your team are more likely to understand and share your view.Communicate the risks, the user’s frustrations and intentions. Practice your storytelling, bring people to your research sessions. Give your sponsors and colleagues a reason to care about the experience.Always participate in activities that are adding value. If you cannot understand how what you’re working on now will add value to the project you’re on, stop and find something else to work on. Don’t be afraid to let go of something.Check in with yourself. Hello? Are you getting carried away in design land?I do it all the time. I looove designing, spending time in Photoshop, trying different design angles. This is all very well and good — but check in with yourself and get up and test what you’ve done. Check in with users, check in with the team, and then you can get back to designing with the insight and direction your team and research provides.This one’s pretty simple — you can’t make excuses for major design and usability flaws in your interface.I’ve heard it before — ‘We’ll provide training’ or ‘it was only one user’. Don’t make excuses and don’t rationalise a position that’s really based on not questioning the design, not spending more time and money on getting it right.This is a great exercise to do when going into a project. If you can take apart similar or existing experiences/solutions and understand what makes them poor (or what makes them good) you can use this to inform the direction you take when building a new experience.It’s not necessary to limit it to your preferences either — it’s extremely useful to conduct UX tests on competitor or existing systems to understand flaws or current behaviour patterns.When you research properly, you get to a point where you have a Define the core and simplest version of the experience you want to create. This will help you focus when you start diving down into creating the interaction design and identifying priority user stories. If you know that a successful experiences only needs a core set you can deliver that — as fast as possible and then expand from there if necessary.Thanks for reading :) this is the current incarnation of the 22 rules — it’s been through a lot of revisions and improved over the years. If you have any feedback or comments, or just want to shout out, I’d love to hear from you.Change agent. Common sense dispenser. Enthusiastic  people focused. Into designing invisible experiences that get out of your way and just let you be a person.My observations or insights into Experience design, subjectivity, philosophy, people

Let me be clear. I certainly don’t want to be one pointing obvious things. Medium is growing by day, and I absolutely sure there are quality updates coming our way. Yet, based on recent changes and what we use right now, there are things in user interface that are not as clear and useful as they might be. I believe bringing some of them to light, will serve platform for the better.Here is a simple one.Quite for a while I guessed, how come stories with the same amout of only 3 recommendations differentiate. It turned out posts have much more recommendations than you see. So why it’s not visible and clear?Lets increase to, say 5 people visible, and add an extra link of all who recommended. Isn’t that an obvious thing to do?.. And those who are visible in that line, might be not the latest, but most followed writers out there, if they particularly recommended this piece, or even those you follow (yeah, following feature should be present too, read futher…)About that... It will definitely be more useful to have Bookmarks available from your main navigation menu (the one on the left).Correct me if I’m wrong, but usually bookmarks are not only for remembering, but for a quick way of coming back to where you left… and surely not just for storing things, as they seem now, being hidden several clicks away (under Bookmarks tab, after you get to Home page).Well, I guess this one is messed up pretty alright. Once, it seemed like categories, being visible at all times, standing for an idea of posting into collection to get attention from those who’s surfing through the same thread.Now, there is a button in the left menu, with no collections to appear when you click it. A search field instead. Where did all of that go? Okay, I see, I need to search for a specific Collection now. But what’s the point for me to post into one, as the collection is not visible any more. Who will know about it, and especially bother searching for it.Why not make it seeable and accurate (with several sorting technics — by Recent activity, by overall Popularity, and by Random perhaps):I believe this is what lacks the most. Maybe it is not quite simple, but definitely important thing to do.Recent problem is that there is no way to track other writers. To see what they post, when they do. Following collections is alright, but what about people? Right now, the only possible way is to bookmark one post per each writer (that’s how I do), to be able to see them in your Bookmarks, and then click a specific writer to check his profile for new posts. Well, isn’t that comfortable...Common way of following people would be nice and useful, don’t you agree? Then, Home page can be retouched in a way to see such tabs as Authors (posts of those you follow), Collections (accordingly), Most Recent (posts from all over)…Touches to Profile page would be required, either. To keep the usual stats.If having Twitter is required for using Medium, then why doesn’t it work the other way round? What I mean is that a bit more of integration into Twitter wouldn’t be such a bad thing. Aren’t you guys kinda in the same boat, Ev?Right now, to display your Medium presence on Twitter, you need to add a long link into your bio, like What if you figure out some way to simply add an extra field to bio, and an accurate spot in the profile along the way...P.S. I’d love to say Follow me on Medium for other upcoming ideas, but bollocks, it doesn’t work that way, yet. Twitter is your only option. Feel free to share your thoughts with me, either — For more ideas and designs on improving user experience visit My mind constantly renders vital UX ideas for products I encounter / 

Great design is timeless, but it’s not deprived of its history. Watch this short video to understand roots of UX Design (User Experience Design has its roots in the ancient The connection between ergonomics and labor survived into the present times. In 1900 Toyota followed in 1940s with their famous Human-Centered-Production system, which aimed at improvement of the efficiency through formation of the convenient and respectful environment for the workers. In a way Toyoyta put The great progress on In 1955, industrial designer, In the 70s the era of personal computers started to emerge. Design was present right from the beginning. Xerox Parc — famous RD lab from Silicon Valley was responsible for e.g. concept of GUI and a computer mouse. Psychologists and engineers worked arm in arm to provide stunning experience.Both, Apple and Microsoft, used work of Xerox Parc (which caused many controversies, especially around Microsoft’s usage of Xerox inventions) to build their amazing Finally in 1995, famous cognitive psychologist and designer — Don Norman, coined Soon the term started to get career on its own and today is extremely well recognized. No wonder. Ideas contained in the term “User Experience” are well funded in the centuries of exceptional work.And that’s the history of User Experience design. Future is in our hands.CEO of UXPin - game changer in the UX design world. UX Designer, entrepreneur, psychologist and philosopher. Blog: 

Typically, the conversation goes like this:For most products, however, 80–90% of downloaded mobile apps In addition to patching a leak in your acquisition funnel, the LTV of a successfully onboarded user can be up to When you’re thinking about your onboarding experience, start with the end in mind.What do you want your users to look like after they’ve successfully completed your onboarding?Do you want them to understand all of your features at a basic level or a few key features at an intermediate/advanced level?What would your ideal or super user do the day after signing up? The week after?By setting a goal (or goals) for your users before starting to build an onboarding flow, you’ll save yourself time, strengthen your focus, and increase the likelihood of creating a successful experience.Great, you’ve identified what an ideal user looks like after completing your onboarding experience. But, how can you make sure they make it through all of your carefully planned onboarding steps without leaving your site or app?You know the power that your product has to simplify their lives, increase their productivity, or improve their morale, Each step of your onboarding flow should have a If you’re trying to get someone to connect to Facebook, let them know that you’re using their shared location and interests to Who wouldn’t connect to Facebook with that kind of information?At every step of your onboarding flow, you are fighting an epic battle to maintain your users’ attention.One simple trick you can use to improve the likelihood they stay in the flow is to show them the The easiest way to do this is with a modal on top of a semi-transparent background.If you want to get fancy, the background can become less and less opaque as they get further in the onboarding flow, subliminally indicating that they are getting closer and closer to the end.What benefits does a power user experience from your product?Are they Do they make Or do they receive 3Whatever your product is, you have social proof available from your best users that you Again, you’re trying to make it So you built a killer onboarding flow with an ideal user in mind, you told users how much better their lives will be with your product, you leveraged social proof, and showed the Emerald City in the distance, that’s enough — right?Not so fast my friend. One of the most important parts of your onboarding flow is Do you drop your users into a confusing (or worse, blank) dashboard, and let them fend for themselves?The ideal onboarding flow lands softly in a simple, user-friendly experience that reminds them what they accomplished in prior steps and slowly introduces new features and functionality.You may even choose to include a smaller secondary onboarding that follows your robust onboarding with tool-tips, live chat, or videos to make the transition even smoother.Onboarding is incredibly important and immensely valuable for your web or mobile app. With a few simple steps, you can turn significantly more of your new users into power users.Any onboarding tricks that you’ve found especially successful? Share them with me on Twitter at Product Manager We are a global tribe creating the startup community we’ve always wanted.

Proposing small UI/UX improvements that could be a big dealI am addicted to music and Spotify helps supply the fix I need. When I am not creating a playlist or jamming out to an album from my childhood, I am trying to discover new or similar artists that keep me on the happy path. I’ve used a ton of music streaming services before, but Spotify is the only music streaming app I’ve used on mobile. One day, wearing my “Designer” hat, I conceptualized a few ideas that would improve my experience using Spotify’s mobile app.While grooving, sometimes I want to search for another artist, song, or playlist from the player screen. I am not weird for wanting this. Music is processed through emotion not logic; so help me irrationally search while I am already listening to something awesome.Search should always be easily accessible. My concept familiarly positions “Search” in the upper-right corner, replacing the “Queue-list” icon.On mobile devices, images and videos are usually easier to press than basic hyperlinks… and icons, occasionally. In the player view, the album art takes up a great deal of real estate, but nothing happens when I press it. It may be more effective to leverage the album art as a means to access the context menu, currently housed within the “Additional options” icon(…)When the Adding a song to a playlist is sufficient and satisfying. The “Quick Save” feature may be unnecessary.Though, I find it unnecessary, some people may find the “Quick Save” feature useful, so having the option to enable/disable at a user’s discretion could also be considered.The Right now, the scrubbing knob in Spotify for iOS is very small. Again, on mobile, size affects accessibility. I just want to make it a little larger.The search field in my opinion, is probably one of the most import UI elements within an app. A basic search field helps us find what we want, but a more effective search field makes it easier for us to discover new and/or familiar experiences. Discoverability keeps me a happy user.I would love if Spotify gave me a way to discover artists, albums, and playlists from the search experience. Once I press the search icon, it will familiarly take me to an input view that opens the mobile keyboard. Once I press the “Clear” icon (X), it would be awesome to be greeted with:Microscopically, the UI could be improved if buttons/action icons had more depth.I really love flat design but not all UI elements are effective when flat. I think the play controls would feel more accessible if depth were added to them; a subtle drop-shadow could work.I really dig the app, and my proposed UI changes are mostly based on the visual style of the current design, so implementation wouldn’t be drastic. Other users/designers may have other improvement suggestions but I think the experience I am proposing is small but really effective.Thanks for reading. Let’s connect on UX/Product Designer aspiring to improve the lives of others through technology

When starting the project we established a clear set of objectives. We asked ourselves a few simple questions that would be mindful of both user and business expectations.Having set out our objectives, we kicked off the project by initiating a series of usability tests. These tests looked at both our existing Soundwave app and other competitor apps to gain a better understanding of the needs of our users.Firstly, our research team conducted a series of interviews in-house with new and returning users. This gave us a clear understanding of the needs and habits of the target market as well as the existing Soundwave community! Our takeaways from this research has been invaluable and you can read more about Alongside this, we also made use of a brilliant online tool called As we chatted with our users and watched the user testing videos, clear patterns of behaviour began to emerge highlighting particular pain points and areas of friction in the app. Finally, we were able to identify a solid list of issues that we needed to tackle:Equipped with the information from our research, we sketched and wire-framed design ideas for an improved app taking into consideration some of the above issues. We took our wireframes and mocked up some working web-based prototypes using This worked really well as we could validate our improvements really quickly using real people! Additionally it provided an awesome way of showing the rest of the team the creative direction the app was taking and getting feedback from them.Having received invaluable feedback and answers to behavioural and UX questions, we started the process of refining and iterating the wireframes. Each iteration and integration to our prototype would bring more usability tests and feedback to incorporate.On a side-note, we also found that when we wanted to test user flows that had some more complex interactions, for example sending a message in a group, that are currently not available in the some of the other software. We needed to look at other prototyping tools such as Pixate and Proto.io. These tools offered a quick way of being able to present these interactions and worked brilliantly with Marvel.Feeling confident that our newly designed product solves the issues raised at the beginning of this post, we have improved the quality of our wireframes to something more high-fidelity. This gives testers a much more realistic experience and expectation to the final product.Adding these final touches to the prototype has really brought our ideas to life. It has allowed us to test the product as a whole, making sure it is smooth and consistent thorughout. This has also led to to some interesting and unexpected discoveries and highlighted new areas to innovate past our original scope.In conclusion, user testing is guaranteed to give you real insights into your product. By testing early and often, it will keep you on the right track to accomplish your objectives whether you’re a lone designer or a product design team.We are very much looking forward to getting the new app out there and we hope you will enjoy using it as much as we are building it!UI/UX Designer based in Dublin, IrelandSoundwave is a mobile music-discovery startup founded in 2012. Soundwave tracks what songs people are listening to on their smartphones and where in real time. Download free on iPhone: iphone.soundwave.com and Android: android.soundwave.com

Anyone who would letterspace blackletter would steal sheep.”A design isn’t finished until somebody is using it. — Brenda LaurelDesign is not just what it looks like and feels like. Design is how it works.Objects and their manufacture are inseparable. You understand a product if you understand how it’s made.discovering the world bit by bit as founder of 5ThingsILearnedToday.com, and Director of User Experience Designing for Other People

They think that just going to college and getting the degree is enough. That presenting the wireframes from a college project represents a portfolio. That it’s okay to ask for $100 per hour when you really have nothing to show except for a few prototypes. That just showing up gets you a one percent raise every year, if it gets you a job at all.For those people that think that, I don’t want to hire them.I want someone that has worked at a startup and failed. I want someone who gets excited talking about building iPhone application ideas on the side. I want conversations about the I want to ask you what you think of Jeffery Veen, Jeffery Zeldman and Dan Saffer. I want to fill a wall of inspiration with you and talk design on a Sunday afternoon over a latte at Caffe Greco. I want you to tell me the differences between Visio, Omnigraffle, Basalmiq and Axure, and which is your favorite.I work for a company that provides software for applicant tracking. I talk to recruiters during usability testing, and I have to understand their thought processes. I don’t consider myself an expert, but my opinion should count.When I worked in print, someone walked into the agency I was working at and asked to have a brochure printed to film (remember film?). I didn’t know them at all, but I knew I could do a better job. It was for a congressional candidate for the 1994 election cycle. Democrats don’t do very well in Orange County, Calif., but I thought it would be a hoot. I worked for a few campaigns before, but it didn’t really go anywhere. I volunteered to do all of their direct mail. For free.It turned into The Republican candidate was Congressman Bob Dornan. The race paved the way for his eventual defeat. The campaign manager eventually went on to start an Internet consulting firm, and I came along. That was the beginning of my Internet career, and I never looked back. It led to a top 100 site as named by PC Magazine and most of the brands for which I have worked.I look for a T skillset: a generalist that can perform a lot of skills competently with one specialty. Having some design and prototyping skills is nice. In a pinch, you should be able to open Photoshop and make it look good.Working for a startup mean you have to do a number of things well because there isn’t anyone else to help you. We, at Jobvite, have to cover a lot of ground, so I look for a T skillset: a generalist that can perform a lot of skills competently with one specialty. Having some design and prototyping skills is nice. In a pinch, you should be able to open Photoshop and make it look good. Most importantly, you should be able to write like there’s no tomorrow because communication is very important.I don’t like to have what I call I was at If you go to meetups, you’re going to run into people that are hiring. I know two other companies specifically that I could refer people to right now. One of them was willing to go down a bit in experience, if they came across the right talented candidate.I know a lot of people, and I love helping people. There’s value there. Understand that value in meeting the right people, and it will do wonders for your career.In a totally random meeting earlier this summer, I ran into She’s been in the design field for a while but went back to school because she knows Interaction Design is her passion.She spent the summer out here probably not getting paid much, but she knew this was a necessary step in her life. She has bills just like everyone else, but she found a way to make it work. She also knows the personal networking opportunities were ridiculous.There is no free lunch in this world, and if you make an effort for the right people. I would totally consider interns, if they had written a letter to me and had some kind of work to show, especially because it shows initiative.There are many resources to find internships. Jobvite clients list them on their career sites, and you can also search I have no idea why more people don’t consider Jobvite as a great way to make connections. Again, we have thousands of recruiters that use our system — and those are the recruiters who hire interaction designers on a regular basis. Also, many companies use If you’re getting a MFA in Interaction, either you’re:If you’re the second, good for you! You’re in a great position.If I were coming up in the field today, this is what I would do:I would then ask about any jobs that are relevant to your skill set and get in the door. Then I would start hanging out with the design team and offer them help after hours. It’s about showing them what you can do, right? No one really knows what you can do unless you have a great portfolio. And that research thing is extremely important — recently I interviewed someone that knew more about the company than anyone else I interviewed. He talked about a video I recorded around agile two or three years ago. No one does that anymore, and it’s really impressive.If someone calls bullshit on this, I’ll direct them to a visual designer that I hired, Most companies have at least one advocate that’s using social media that’s hidden in plain sight (seriously, if you type Jobvite User Experience, I’m the There’s nothing more important in this field than having a passion for what you do. You aren’t putting a bolt on a car — you’re building products that can change the world. I can say that I’ve been involved in products that have been in front of close to 500 million users. That takes a lot of passion.Don’t start a blog, but you should at least tweet. Read articles and retweet. Share thoughts. Keep it short but honest. Develop a voice. I should be able to walk up to you at any point and ask, “Who are your favorite user experience designers or blogs?” You don’t have to answer Bill Buxton, Jacob Nielson or Donald Norman (or even Alan Cooper). You don’t even have to read my blog (but it would be stupid not to say “yes” in an interview).If someone takes the first step, we should be there to help them with the second. This should be a model for all technology companies (I have some great suggestions for companies on developing great programs around this. We need to get the ball rolling.Interaction Designer and World Citizen. Runs uxdrinkinggame.com and usabilitycounts.com. The opinions here are my own, however misguided.Reruns from the blog Usability Counts. Without apology.

Historically the practice and culture of Design have been defined by what has to be designed in a project. A car, a dress, a furniture, a domestic appliance, a computer and so on. In the era of product design, designers were mainly segmented on vertical industries and focused on the business and the technical features of each specific product, and the end user was seen as an inconvenience or a dumb consumer to be educated.The rise of user-centered methodologies, practices and tools changed everything: the center of the project shifted from the product and the technical features to the users and their experience, breaking the vertical industry silos and bringing many fundamental and positive innovations in the way products and systems today are conceived and designed.The user-centered revolution has been possible mainly rebuilding the creative and design process and developing a new generation of design tools. The Unquestionably these innovations have extended the design culture and practice way beyond its traditional range to new domains and challenges, making Design even more cross-disciplinary and complex.Today designers and design thinkers are taking on the challenges of designing experiences, services and strategies, mostly following the same multidisciplinary and holistic approach to the creative process developed for user-centered design. These tools and techniques are applied to broader and more complicated business problems. Apparently the loop is closed: complex product ecosystems and service platforms are now designed putting the user in the center and connecting the dots of the multiple touch-points of the user experience. Nonetheless one of the key problem of UX Design and Service Design is that many designers often seem to be engrossed with the design process and its tools, without paying sufficient attention to the specific business and product challenges that could make the project successful.Looking over the most recurring points of the current User Experience and Service Design debate, mostly it is about defining and structuring the design process and its deliverables, the workshop formats, refining the design tools, the design phases and so on. This is fine, but the attention paid to understand an define the real challenges of the product and service that has to be designed, and what makes it really different and innovative for an organization, is often little.There is no question that user experience should be the center of everything, and that understanding and empathizing with the users is a crucial part of the success of an innovation project. Nonetheless designing a service or an experience for banking, for retail or for the healthcare sector is a completely different problem, although the design process, the activities and the design tools can be the same.When it comes to prove the business value of User Experience Design and thinking, the concern of the UX community is about how to communicate and explain the benefits of the various parts of the UX Design approach to clients and business stakeholders. The confidence in the appropriateness of the approach and of the design process is so big, that for many designers the best way to show the value of their work is to persuade business stakeholders of the benefits of investing in it and making them realize the negative impact of not including a strategic design thinking, beyond the tactical design execution.This is not wrong, of course, but the quality of communication and packaging are just a part of the problem. The problem of the business value of UX Design is not only communicating more efficiently the value of the design process and of its structure and outcomes, but to make these parts really relevant for the specific business goals of the project.Everybody realizes that there is gap between design and business, but the question is not that business stakeholders don’t get UX Design: sometimes UX professionals fail to master the specific industry challenge behind the project, and sometimes they seem not even interested in solving it. As a consequence, many clients and corporate stakeholders see UX and Service designers as generalists who want to deal with complicated challenges without the appropriate vertical knowledge and competences. Moreover many stakeholders struggle to understand the value delivered by a workshop or a design phase, even when a great value is actually delivered.For a successful project, user-centered design processes and tools are definitely necessary, but not sufficient. If User Experience Design wants to get to the strategic level, designers should be also product and industry experts, able to understand and master the strategic business background and objectives and the real challenges of the specific product and service they are designing.Great designers deliver design solutions to business problems. It’s not only a matter of understanding the users and the context of the experience, and it’s not only about problem solving. Being experts of the design process is a crucial skill for a designer, but it’s not enough. The process is only a tool, a means to an end. Design leaders are able to get into the core of the specific business problem and goals of the project, and then combine and coordinate the various design activities and tools structuring the design process consequently.The true business value of UX strategy does not lie only in a well structured design process, but in a design process properly structured on the actual business challenges to solve.Creative Director @ frog - PhD, Interaction Designer and UX strategist, teacher, speaker, music lover

I conducted my user research over two phases and over the course of three days. The objective was to gain a deep understanding of how and why people communicate and understand the deep relationship collaboration has with communication.I conducted individual user interviews either over voice chat or in person. I prepared questions to serve as a loose guideline on the sorts of topics and questions I would go over which informed me of where in their lives communication tools play a role, how participants balance their personal life from their professional life with regards to communication tools and accessibility to others, and what their motivations are with workplace communication tools. The participants were all in their mid-20’s to mid-30’s with 44% coming from non-tech fields. Some of them were early to adopt and try new technologies and software, others were self-described luddites. The following are my learnings:Trends are common themes that I found amongst all of the participants. These are the behaviors they all exhibited regardless of age, ethnic background, industry, and profession.One participant messaged the following to me after the user interview session:From a participant where there wasn’t enough adoption for a tool:From a participant where there was enough adoption for a tool:From a participant that set up the groundwork for his team to adopt Asana:Nuances are interesting anecdotes that have the potential to surprise, delight, or confound. They may be outliers and idiosyncrasies in behavior amongst participants, but could have deeper implications that’s worth looking into.product designer 

Nowadays UX (User experience) is the integral part in designing any site or application. Considering its importance in the process of design is unavoidable on the way to success. The more people think about it and work on it, the more different definitions appear to this phenomenon. It’s easy to get lost in the loads of them, especially if you just start your way as the UX designer.Here we gathered six popular definitions for User Experience in order to concentrate what the professionals think about its features and role. Having based on those great explanations, we try to generalize main thoughts to be involved in UX designer’s work.We are a comprehensive team of designers specializing in mobile/web interfaces, UI/UX, icons, logos and branding. We don’t look for solutions. We create them.

Technology in our lives is hitting its limit.At first software developers vied for the users’ dollar, then they wanted their eyes, then their time, and now we’ve reached the point where apps and software experiences are competing for a user’s mind.We now carry computers in our pockets, and the role of technology has changed as a result. Computing now interacts with us moment to moment, and technology dictates how we go about our day. We do not use technology in sessions anymore, we use it constantly, and as such the way we design must change.While devices are becoming drastically more feature rich that is not translating to a better quality of experience for the user. Developers optimize for user engagement (time spent in the app or software) by creating new features, functionality, and catchier designs, and the user experience is suffering.Back when the app model was created the iPhone only came with a few apps. It was easy to manage each app and understand their purpose.Now it’s difficult to even know which apps to use. Apps each do incredibly unique things and understanding each and every one is an ordeal that few people want to do.Apple and Google have begun to tackle this problem by taking the best apps and features that small developers have pioneered and made their own versions to include with the OS.Even if people can find the app or software they want the odds they’ll remember it or use it again are slim. Software experiences are divided and partitioned into separate apps and web pages.On phones apps often overlap with the functionality of each other, and unless you individually remember the specific functionality of every app on your phone your confidence in choosing an app to fulfill your goals is unlikely to be very high.This leads to behavior like people using Gmail for notes. They know it works and they don’t have to think about it. This is a better experience for them.If an app or service is not used frequently enough to be at the forefront of a user’s mind they will forget it and it will die.How do developers address this?They try to engage the user more and pull them back into their experience. They send notifications, push tiny updates, employ addictive designs, and optimize for user retention. What is the result? The user is even more overwhelmed, and they have less time for each app and experience.The attempts at novelty and solving specific targeted user issues have made even more problems for the user. Users are more lost in their digital ecosystems, and the brilliant solutions and designs developers create are not making the user’s experience better.Something is wrong.Software needs to be simultaneously explicit with its design, and broad with its possibilities.Technology needs to optimize for contentedness. Rather than focus on engagement developers should focus on ensuring the user is satisfied and that they’ve accomplished their task in a time efficient manner.Developers need to target possibility spaces, not individual problems. Create an app to do something that is flexible, that is a tool, not something that is targeted towards a specific individual task. Create something that can be used in many ways and doesn’t impose restrictions on the user, but trim the fat so that the user only has what they need.Presently many app developers strive to solve each individual problem with very targeted solutions, but this only contributes to the noise in a user’s life. Ultimately these solutions go unused.Instead developers should create experiences that are broad and well thought out within a problem space rather than amazing at one thing in that space.We see dozens of note taking apps tailored to every form of note. Short notes, long notes, reminders, journals, class notes, meeting notes. A user could have many apps and their experience would be fragmented and confusing, ultimately making their experience worse. An app that targeted this space broadly could simplify the user’s life drastically by simplifying their mental model of how they use their software. There is a reason that so many use a simple notebook daily; it imposes no restrictions and has enormous potential.This is not to say that software should cram tons of features into a product, rather it is the opposite. Software should be designed to feel like there are few features. Reduce to the absolute bare minimum, and wherever possible make something feel so natural it doesn’t feel like a feature at all. Understand that the user’s mental space is precious.Many turn away from technology because they feel it is restrictive and confining, but it does not have to feel this way. We must learn to design experiences that enable clarity and productivity. By expanding the possibility space of what we design, and reducing the complexity, we can make experiences that are more natural feeling and reduce mental clutter, ultimately making the lives of people better.I think about things. Sometimes I make things too.

User experience research—studying people and how they use a product in order to improve it—is a great career that people entering the tech field tend to overlook. I nearly overlooked it myself, largely because of a few myths I’d heard about what it’s like to work in research. After two years working as a researcher, I know the truth behind those myths and am sharing it below in the hope it’ll encourage more people to consider working in this awesome field.A common worry of people who could be great researchers is that taking a job with the title “Researcher” will brand them forever as someone who can only do research. First, to set things straight: this is incorrect. I know many people who have worked as researchers and then gone on to different roles without anyone standing in their way saying, “No, thou shalt always henceforth be a researcher and thou shall be no other thing, the leopard cannot change its spots, it is against nature!!!”But additionally, developing a research specialization isn’t a terrible curse: it’s actually one of the smartest things you can do for your career. If you do decide you want to switch specializations or become a generalist, research will be a great foundation because it gives you the whole “understands real people” cachet that’s widely acknowledged to be useful in developing software for humans.Researchers design. Designing isn’t their primary task, but researchers most certainly produce deliverables that are sketches and wireframes. In fact a sketch or wireframe is often exactly what a team wants most from you, since it’s the quickest way for them to understand your insight or idea about an interface.There’s still a major difference between you and a designer, of course, and that’s that while you amuse yourself for half an hour sketching out your great ideas, the designer gets to spend weeks grinding hers into perfection. If you really love nothing more than to spend 10 hours of your day focused on a design, then by golly, you’re a designer, go make it happen. But if you’re actually kind of lazy when it comes to execution, then the research version of “design” is your ticket.Just as my parents asked of me back when I was fully convinced the only thing I could do with my life as a creative person was to write fiction, I’m going to ask you to expand your definition of “creative” just a tiny little bit. I admit that’s not so easy to do from inside our “I make things”/ “I build things” tech hero culture. But creativity really just means coming up with new stuff, and that stuff does not have to be visible or tangible in order to “count.” Research requires you to come up with a ton of new stuff: new questions, new methods, new communication tactics, new product ideas. Good researchers are very creative.By “too academic” I’m going to assume you mean “not applied enough.” So, some large companies do employ some researchers to go off on their own and do whatever exploratory research and write a paper about it. However, all employers, and certainly small-to-medium ones, mainly would like for their researchers to help them figure out what the hell they should do with their products. That’s applied research. Rather than disappearing to write endless reports nobody will read, an applied researcher insinuates herself into the heart of the product team and gets to know everyone and everything that’s going on. She then uses that on-the-ground knowledge to design research that the team actually wants, and shares the results in brief, casual, entertaining formats that would never ever make the cut at CHI.A lab is a great resource and there’s no end to the gadgets you can play with in there. But if you’re doing research right, you’re running as many studies as possible out in people’s real environments: you’re intercepting people on the street, visiting them at their homes and workplaces, or videoconferencing with them wherever they may be. As a researcher, you get the hell out of the office all the time—and unlike your non-researcher coworkers, you don’t spend that time in conference rooms.Compared to the scads of successful designers, engineers, and entrepreneurs out there, there are relatively few research superstars to look up to as models of success. This can be both confusing (what does success look like in research?) and discouraging (I encourage you to look at this challenge as an opportunity. The field is still new, growing, and looking for leaders: you can be one of the people who define success, and you can do it your own way. And as you’re starting out, if you look hard, you will find there are lots of great mentors out there for you.Correction: Research Lead at Even

Based on my experience working on product over the last 4 years, I’ve learnt that new user experience is sacrosanct. Below are the four golden rules that make a first-time user experience sticky.First Impressions — your mother probably told you how important they are. In consumer web and mobile, we’re discovering our mothers were wiser than they realized.When a user first lands on your product, he is judging and evaluating your product. Between Now, you know how amazing your product is, its No sign-up, no-sign in, no email ids and no Facebook connect. The first thing you want to show your potential users is the value proposition. Show them that one thing that will make them love your product. Let them feel it and let them try it.Games do this best. They let you play a sliver of the game (usually just the core loop) before prompting a sign-up. This way, players get addicted to the swipe or click or shoot that defines their core gameplay experience. Mobile apps like Tinder and Uber do this well — they show you exactly what you’re signing up for and then prompt the sign-up. For websites, this is bound to be harder as they will have to constantly track who is a first-time user and deliver them a unique personalized experience.When I was a child, I would cook a lot. I’d bake a cake or a 3-course dinner for my parents, wait for them to feel really loved and have an excellent meal, and then ask them for money or permission to stay out late. On some level, I was using behavioral economics to get my sign-up.Upworthy does this the absolute best. You click on a link from somewhere, you see this page. You read about something that’s inspiring or exciting or ridiculous. “You liked this? Give us your email!”. You’ve shown me why I should love you ,then you ask for my commitment. My answer is YES! I’m in. Because I know now why I should give you my email id.So you’ve got the email-id and you’ve got the credit card. What next? Should you let them roam free?No. Guide their conversion. Make the “sale” a natural part of their experience. Make it something they get used to doing.Other products should do the same thing. Show your users how easy it is to pay or convert by seeding them with some credits and making them spend the credits. If you want them to invite their friends — show them how to do it in your first time experience.This is LITERALLY what we do at Zynga. In Farmville, a player plants seeds and waters her plants and she’s got to wait. When she comes back, all her plants are grown and ready to harvest. If the player doesn’t harvest, her crops will wither and it would have all been a waste. This has been the single most valuable asset in driving players to come back to the game after next visit.Linkedin does this well with endorsements. In fact, its likely they introduced endorsements because it creates an extremely effective hook. You want to know who has endorsed you for what and you get emails every day saying somebody as endorsed you. Because endorsement is such a simple and easy action for anybody to do, it can trigger a frequent notification and lure the user back to the site.Think about what can be an easy and effective hook in your product that will plant the seeds for the next visit.New user experience is critical to retain your installs and visitors. Overvalue it and you will see results!Product Management. Tech. Dancing. Running .

Over the past couple years, we’ve seen the ferocious emergence of logistics “unicorns,” startups such as Judging by valuations, anecdotal evidence, and conversations I’ve had with people familiar with these companies, their uptake has been phenomenal. Once customers start using these services, they stick around. We are at the outset of a sea change in how people and stuff move around.Pre-internet, even pre-smartphone, logistics was pretty much a function that existed deep within businesses. If a customer ever interacted with logistics, it was at the very end of the chain, with the delivery of a package (think FedEx and UPS), or picking something off a store shelf (think supermarkets and Walmart), or configuring a computer online (Dell). The focus within logistics was to be as efficient and effective as possible, to remove waste, in order to reduce costs.In a post-smartphone world, logistics has bled out of the enterprise and into the fabric of our lives. Primarily due to smartphones, but also thanks to data science and machine learning, we’re all becoming participants in The New Logistics, either as shopper, courier/driver, or merchant.From a perspective of user experience, this presents plenty of interesting wrinkles.Historically, logistics is an analytical endeavor, using Tayloristic principles of The human actors were employees who understood their job within this context. With the New Logistics, analysis and efficiency are crucial, but insufficient, because there are now multiple parties that must be managed. No one wants to feel like a cog in a machine, and so the New Logistics grapples with the irony of melding extreme efficiency with humanistic concerns of autonomy and delight. Basically, how do you turn logistics into a human Perhaps the plural, “experiences,” is more appropriate, because it not about user experience, but the experiences of all the users, in this case all the actors in the New Logistics actors, such as the courier and the merchant.These services exist because a buyer is willing to spend money to for convenience, often paired with time savings.However, convenience and time quickly become commoditized. BPR and Six Sigma don’t command as much attention any more because they largely ran their course, as every system has a limit to its efficiency. At some point, further efforts are met with diminishing returns.When the core of these New Logistics offerings become commoditized, it will be in the areas of service experience where additional and specific value are created. It will be essential for each service to be clear about its specific value proposition, and to portray a distinct personality.That personality will emerge as a product of four criteria:Right now, of the major providers of which I’m aware, Uber and Lyft are the strongest across these criteria, followed by Munchery. Uber, with its “Everyone’s Private Driver” tagline, conveys an elevated, even aspirational personality, and still offers black cars, though UberX is most active. While Lyft has reined in the pink mustache and no longer states “Your Friend with a Car,” friendliness and community are still at their core, and I’ve found many riders are either “Uber people” or “Lyft people” (even though many, if not most, drivers, work with both). Munchery features quality meals, prepared by chefs each with their own story, presented in handsome boxes with easy-to-follow instructions. Caviar has truly nailed the ‘assortment’ category, so while there’s not much more to it’s person-to-person interactions, functionality, or brand trappings, the fact that they have many of the best restaurants in our neighborhood available to us in less than an hour (which means we can eat great food without worrying about how our small children will behave) makes them a winner.The shopping services, like Instacart and Postmates, seem to still be focusing on the convenience and time aspects. That makes sense — those are the table stakes, or the lowest level on Maslow’s hierarchy, and if you don’t have that right, the rest doesn’t matter. Also, Instacart’s and Postmates’ models mean a more complicated relationship with merchants, which takes time away from realizing higher levels of actualization. But pretty soon, they’ll have to demonstrate differentiated experiences if they want to meaningfully stand out (and warrant the big investments The New Logistics opens up some fascinating new avenues for design. The personality aspect is just one. For each role, a “customer journey” needs to be drawn up, as the buyer, the courier, and the merchant are all ‘customers’ of the New Logistics provider. Those customer journeys then need to productively integrate. We’re not talking about experience * This is hairy stuff. I hope to keep exploring it. Would love y’all’s thoughts in the comments.(Thanks to Design and Product executive.

The Design Studio is a wonderful methodology to encourage multidisciplinary design, but in practice teams often create design concepts that aren’t grounded in user research. We can bake user research findings into every design concept that emerges by using the context of use (users, goals and environments) as a constraint. As an added bonus, this approach helps teams create many more solutions to a design problem.A If you participated in a well-run Design Studio, you would first hear a summary of the user research that had been done up to that point and arrive at a shared understanding of the user needs and the business constraints. Next, you would work alone or with a partner to sketch potential design solutions — as many as possible. (The focus is on quantity rather than quality). After 30 minutes or so, you place your designs on the wall and present them to the group for critique, describing how each of your sketches solves the design problem. Once all the designs have been presented, the sketching process repeats with teams iterating on the most promising ideas.That’s the theory, anyway.Having observed more than a few Agile teams take part in Design Studios, my overriding impression is that In some cases, this is because the team members simply ignore the research. This sometimes stems from the fact that, in the past, team members have experienced the And in other cases, I suspect teams get caught up in the frenetic atmosphere of a Design Studio, feel under pressure to create many design ideas quickly and simply forget to ground their designs in research.Whatever the cause, I’ve seen participants frequently fall back on stale ideas that have been rejected in the past, submit design concepts based on invalidated assumptions, and create sketches that reflect design concepts that they personally like. The end result is that in a poorly run Design Studio, even one where the personas have been proudly stuck to the walls, teams can very quickly end up designing for themselves.The end result is the same: the user research ends up making a minor contribution to the design ideas.I decided to change things up in a recent Design Studio that I facilitated. This time, I wanted to ensure that user research was baked into It’s tempting to believe that to come up with creative ideas, we should ignore all constraints. Ignore what’s possible! Imagine you had infinite time and money! We can do anything! However, that belief is wrong: The most important constraint in user experience is the context of use: the user, the user’s tasks and the environment where the action takes place. To this, we could add other constraints to encourage our thinking, such as the emotional intent, a UI design pattern, a UX design principle, a usability objective or a behavioural nudge. But by ensuring that every design idea is grounded in the context of use, we can be sure that research is at the heart of every design idea.To make this work in practice, I used a creativity booster from Michael Michalko’s creativity book, Find a whiteboard. If you can’t find a whiteboard, find a wall. If you can’t find a wall, Draw 5 columns on the whiteboard and label the first three columns ‘User’, ‘Environment’ and ‘Goal’. Then decide on a couple of other constraints for the other two columns. In the example shown here, I’ve added ‘Design pattern’ and ‘Emotional intent’.Place 5 sticky notes in each column. This will form the skeleton of your selection box.In this step, you list five specific examples of each constraint. For example, for ‘User’ you would probably list your personas. In the example shown here, I’ve used examples of user types, such as ‘Tech novice’, ‘Intermediate’, etc. For ‘Environment’, you would list the relevant aspects of the users’ environments that you have seen in your user research, such as ‘Office / Desktop’ or ‘Commuter / Phone’. For ‘Goals’ you would list the various Each person or team taking part in the Design Studio now creates a set of 5 constraints by choosing one example from each column. In the example shown in Figure 4, the designer has selected a novice user using the service on a phone while commuting, who wants to transfer money. The design pattern will be a wizard and the emotional intent is to make the user confident. Taking these constraints, the designer now quickly sketches a potential design solution.If I’ve done my maths right, there are 5 x 5 x 5 x 5 x 5 possible combinations, which results in 3,125 possible design ideas from this matrix. That’s more than halfway to the 5,127 failed prototypes that To generate more ideas, take each of the selected constraints and ‘turn it up to 11’ (Then take each item and reverse your assumption. For example, instead of a wizard design pattern, how would we design a system that showed all of the options?If you need yet more ideas, return to Step 3 and replace the two end columns with alternative constraints. Here’s some that I’ve found useful:It’s wise to keep the first three columns focussed on the context of use since that’s how you’ll bake your research findings into every design concept. I’ve also found it works best when I have 4–5 constraints in total: fewer than that fails to tell a story and more than that makes it a little too complex.The approach has at least two benefits.I hope you get the chance to try this technique in your next Design Studio. Let me know how it went in the comments.Founder of 

For me, the immigration process has always been deeply personal. I come from a family of immigrants — my father’s family is from Colombia, my mother’s parents were Cuban refugees. I have cousins on student visas who are hoping to find jobs and build permanent lives in America. I have seen firsthand how difficult and heartbreaking it is when family is separated because of glitches in systems and flaws in policy, and it’s why I care so deeply about modernizing our immigration system.At first glance, the mostly paper-based process seems poorly designed. It can be confusing, frustrating, and at times, akin to sending documents into a dark, deep void. Papers change hands multiple times and the applicant is responsible for keeping track of various actors, agencies, deadlines, and forms. From the time a petitioner submits a petition to the time an immigrant receives a permanent resident card, the U.S. government physically transfers paper files no fewer than So last November, following the President’s call for streamlining and modernizing the visa process, our team at the The first thing we did was to send our ethnographer in residence, Kate Krontriris, into the field. She traveled to Montreal and Santo Domingo to witness the immigration process from the perspective of the applicant and the consular officers conducting interviews, with the hope of understanding what could be improved about the process. She found that the definition of “user” varied depending on whom you talked to, and that there was actually more than one user to design for. This type of feedback from users in the field was invaluable because it added an important human layer to the recommendations that our collaborating technical teams made (you can find these We also sent our team of engineers into the agencies to evaluate their systems and what technical improvements could be made. Their recommendations included: adopting modern best practices for software development, such as deploying in a flexible hosting environments (the cloud), and using monitoring systems to measure system performance. We also called on agencies to modernize and simplify their technology stacksWhile these recommendations will not fix our immigration system entirely, they will go a long way in improving how applicants interact with our government on their immigration journey. I’m reminded of a song by the famous Dominican singer Juan Luis Guerra, “Follow Backchannel: Founding member of the United States Digital Service at the White House; Miami strong and proud Latina.Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

Consistency across all mediums and content is a brilliant branding strategy which provide a quality experience to users and should not be underestimated.My definition of The designers who spends more time thinking about “What does the user expect?” will have more successful results.Since sight is the strongest human sense, your visual language should flow logically. Do an analysis of your design according to visual hierarchyA good example for visual hierarchy is the And if your Sign In form is as basic as JotForm’s- “Even if users are not clicking on something you made clickable, that doesn’t mean they don’t appreciate the visual consistency.Be consistent according to the medium. Take a look at good examples of style sheets and integrate them with your brand’s style guide Excellent Style Guide Examples: The meaning of consistency is doing the same things over and over. I am not telling you to pick a style and stick with it forever. At the same time, please do not make users re-learn everything they already know. It takes work to be inconsistent and innovative without leading your design into chaos. Maintain your own consistency. Design based on what your users already know and love. What I mean is create an experience which is relevant to your users’ previous experiences. Evolve your ideas depending on that. The goal is to create a balance between consistency and new design.JotForm uses great language on the Also, in this example the content enriched with a video (And do not forget that users visit your website for a particular reason and get used to your content, so do not give them the things they are not interested in.A successful animation should helps users without drawing attention to itself. Forgetting that the data is the most important thing and distracting users with unnecessary interactions is a mistake that you would like to avoidFinally, when design, content and interaction are consistent across all mediums Final Notes:UI / UX Designer JotForm related.  Ideas. Stories. User guides. From the founder of JotForm and others.

We once lived in a technological era where users and customers were thrilled by new features in technology products. Above all, they took delight in the mere ability to successfully finish their tasks with these products. There appears to be a consensus that user experience has taken center stage, and technology has become a medium, and in the process, invisible. However, to sustain a good user experience, it’s not enough to simply “hide” the technology. Instead, you have to make it smarter and more sophisticated!Today, what was once considered a delighter, has become a basic need. This is especially true of user experience for digital products. So, what’s next? As you guessed from the title, a new era of Visual Design Experience is coming! An era where the users want to be delighted visually, raising the expectations from user experience.iOS7 is a great example. Apple designers used over-saturated colors that made iOS6 look old and unattractive instantaneously. They added huge amount of new transitions. And this is it, most of iOS7 was a huge motion and face lift. Even the Parallax gimikification feature made its job in marketing buzz. Apple even sacrificed some of the usability just to make sure these delighters got into the new version.The trend is obvious when you see big motion graphics comapnies like Another evidance is that Visual Effects professionals and 3D Artists are shifting towards the user experience field, is Education. Digital Tutors, who making high quality online videos, (if i recall right, since 2004) for artists and designers in animation, movies and games industries are now making videos for web/mobile designers. Videos on how to make responsive design, build interactive prototypes and more. I my self, a 3D Artist and Technical Director who did the shift to UX.If you combine this fact plus the fact that the animation industry is in troubles, as a result many talented artists are being laid off, you can assume that nice portion of these artists will find their way to Visual Design/UX field.User Experience field that grew from Usability Experts, Graphic Designers, Programmers and others, now has a new boost of Animators, Visual Effects, Game and 3D Artists.Back to Apple. If you look at AppleWatch designs they are showcasing on apple.com/watch/, you will see designs with lots of vivid colors, with staturation values above 70 and brightness above 90 on most main UI elements. Motion design is used as one of the main delighters to stir users’ emotions.Take a look at dribbble.com, the animated UI designs are most popular.It’s not enough to create best flow for the user, put the right tools in right context at perfect timing. We have to think harder how to delight users.In coming years, we will see highly colorful designs, and crazy motion UIs in our Mobile, Web and Desktop apps.User Experience Expert at HP Software and Mentor at 

By User experience is an industry that is constantly evolving. Whether you’re a new practitioner or a seasoned veteran it’s important stay up-to-date on the latest conversations and ideas happening in the industry. So how do you stay updated and relevant? Here’s a clue: you’re doing it right now. Reading blogs is a quick and easy way to remain current. Below you’ll find some of my all-time favorite user experience design blogs; including established industry leaders as well as niche blogs discussing innovative topics.With no further ado and in no particular order, find our top 10 user experience design blogs:NNG is the trusted long-running authority in all things UX. The articles are extremely insightful and always backed up with detailed research and examples to illustrate arguments. For a weekly fix, subscribe to their “Alertbox newsletter.” You won’t regret it.UX Booth is an extremely high-quality and thorough blog. Quality is the key word here. Authors bring unique insights and perspectives to thought-provoking arguments. Articles are long but full of well-researched content, references, and suggestions for further reading.This user experience centered blog focuses on user interfaces in particular and how UI affects user behaviors. This is wonderful because of its niche specificity. The focus around user interfaces compliments the theory and holistic topics typically presented on other sites. The detailed concepts here are typically presented through visual examples.Published every other week, this blog focuses on quality over quantity. Although they don’t post as often as other blogs, each article is an extremely thoughtful and well-researched discussion on topics ranging from interaction design, information architecture, and design of business.Usabilla is a product for user feedback, but they publish a blog on their site as well. The posts are always unique and interesting, but the real gem is their monthly “best of” articles. The “best of” is a compilation series that highlights insightful articles from around the web, typically from smaller or more niche sources.This is a classic resource for anyone in the technology industry. Dig into the “UX Design” category for a focused set of articles but explore the other offerings throughout the magazine as well. It will only help round you out as a designer the more you explore.UX Pin is a wireframing/prototyping product with a great blog embedded in their site. The content is interesting and relevant but keep an eye out for the free e-books. These are outstanding resources that are showcased on the blog. You can also find the whole collection A staple in any UX designer’s reading list. This consistent blog has a huge variety of content for designers at any level. Here you will find anything from “how to” posts to opinion pieces and no matter what, UX will always be front and center.This is a product for, you guessed it, user testing, but the blog within the site is a great resource worth checking out. The blog offers a wide range of topics from tech news to hot apps and products. However, the best resources come from their research based posts that are full of wonderful examples illustrating various research methods and techniques.Written for “people who make websites” with a focus on web standards and best practices. The site contains both a blog and longer format articles. The content in both sections are extremely well curated and high-quality material. However, if you’re looking for UX design specific content you may have to hunt around a bit. While hunting though, make sure to to explore headlines outside the field for some added industry context.Finally, explore the GA transforms thinkers into creators through education and opportunities in tech, business, and design.Latest stories in the growing field of UX Design

A new generation of products and services based on smart technologies is about to change the world around us. Connected objects, smart assistants, sensors, beacons, big data and artificial intelligence are revolutionising not only many industries and business sectors but also the way we will interact with an emerging world of smart devices and services.This new generation of services, products, applications and tools will deliver to the user a new kind of experience: a “What is a “smart user experience”? Briefly, it is a new class of experiences based on smart technologies: ”A smart user experience is enhanced by sensors, connected things, AI algorithms and any other technology, that is able to listen, learn and adapt automatically in real time following the users behaviour, their context and any other specific condition and rule, that influence the service delivery and outcome and, eventually, the experience itself.As soon as a product or a service combines digital technologies, sensors and network connection capabilities, is ready to get “smart”. As Michael Porter writes, this is the “The more this technology is embedded everywhere in consumer products, mobile devices and common things, the more it becomes invisibile and deeply intertwined with our everyday experience, breaking any barrier between digital and physical domains. In the words of Eric Schmidt (3):Actually Schmidt recalls Mark Weiser (4): as technology matures, getting pervasive and connecting everything, we will experience an highly personalised and interactive world.Converting the massive volume of data collected by sensors and mobile devices into useful results and applications is still a challenge. This is dealt with in recent developments in artificial intelligence and remote computing. Rendered by data and sophisticated software algorithms, many working “Narrow Artificial Intelligence” (also called “Weak AI”, a very specialised set of instructions focused on specific tasks) are already part of a wide array of consumer and industrial services and applications, enabling a new generation of tailored and improved services and experiences.We are just at the beginning, most of the first commercial applications are still limited and partial, but the list of services and products enhanced by some sort of software intelligence is long and is growing every day: from Nest to Google Now and Waze. Smart healthcare systems that track and assist patients in managing their therapy and new testing systems that help doctors to decide whether to perform surgery on patients. Automatic personal financial advisors, “robo-advisors” that manage investment portfolios with a little human supervision. Agriculture tools that analyse soil hydration and environmental factors, revealing trouble spots or opportunities for better crop management. Self-driving cars, connected vehicles, and smart energy management systems. Besides many mobile smart apps and personal assistants that sort and prioritise automatically email messages, appointments and suggest what you might want to buy or the movie you may want to watch this evening.There are massive potential innovation opportunities for many different industries and business sectors: transportation, healthcare, financial services, education, retail, entertainment, consumer products, public services and so on. A wide range of human activities and tasks will be innovated and automated by intelligent systems capable to collect, process and organise data and information better and faster.The impact of the smart technologies innovation is twofold: they change the way services and products are conceived and delivered, as well as the way users interact with those services and products.The bar of the relationship with customers is about to rise again. If the current challenge for many companies is to set up an integrated and consistent digital-physical platform for their customers across channels and touchpoints, the next challenge will be delivering a smart user experience.To remain competitive, companies will have to rethink the customer relationship building an interactive platform able to change and adapt itself continuously, in real-time, following and engaging the customer in new ways.Digital banking and ecommerce are excellent examples of this transformation and of its consequences on the service experience. Users simply don’t think about channels, locations and time of the day: they just access the service opportunistically, when they want, anywhere, with the most convenient devices available in that moment. For a service being online and accessible by a mobile device is just the first step, a natural and basic functional condition. Now users ask for a simpler, more relevant and personalised service. A smart service.Many traditional objects and spaces, like retail and work spaces, are about to get alive and interactive, capable to detect, identify and react to the user presence, delivering contextual and personalised content and services on smartphones and other connected devices. In this hyperconnected scenario, user centrality is more important than ever: being able to follow and support people everywhere continuously and consistently will be a crucial success factor for the next generation of service experiences.What are the key characteristics of a smart experience? Most of them are inherited from the technologies and the platforms used. Some points are not completely new for designers but get new implications in the smart services scenario. New opportunities and challenges are unfolding for user experience designers, calling into question priorities and interaction logics far from conventional screen-based interactions and graphic user interfaces. The following is an intial and brief overview and analysis.The more objects are connected the more The ecosystem configuration can be very open and variable: some tools collect the data, some process the data and other devices provide the interface for the user. Any data collected at any point of the system becomes useful only when it is combined and processed by the software platform to deliver a specific result. The same connected gadgets and data can be used by different platforms with different purposes to deliver different solutions. The user value lies in the distributed smart service and its outcomes, not in the single smart devices.More than ever, a smart experience Ensuring the appropriate service outcome everywhere, anytime and its relevance for the context of the interaction, is critical for the relation with the user and one of the key problem for UX designers. Also a physical connected gadget and its features should be designed considering the goals and the features of the service platform it is supposed to belong, not the other way round.The more smart connected objects and services blend into the background of our every day life and in the world around us, the more The interaction with a system can be triggered by many different events, microinteractions, data and hidden controls, even without notice or a visibile feedback for the user. Multiple types of input devices can be distributed everywhere and combined together, creating thousands of interfaces of any sort, very different from the usual computer-based interaction paradigms. The triggering events of a smart experience are potentially unlimited. This is one of the key difference between traditional interaction design and designing for smart services: “A smart application delivers only This point is perfectly described by Rehabstudio as “Users do not have to search or browse an application menu to find what they need, but they simply choose within a smart selection of the best combination of content and features related to their specific situation, prepared automatically by the intelligent system. In many situations the experience will be based on live and dynamic notifications, suggestions and recommendations delivered to the user on the spot at the right time. This is the use case of smart watches, for example, and of other small devices with small screens or limited interaction capabilities (wearables, smart home connected objects and so on).Sometimes, In the everything connected scenario, Many smartphone apps are the main interface for a wide array of connected objects and devices that have no UI at all, making our smartphone into a remote control for pretty much everything. Actually this is also one of the main issue of many smart platforms: if you need a smartphone (and an app) everytime you have to turn off the lights or change the temperature of the room, the experience can get cumbersome pretty quickly. As mentioned earlier, simple tasks are better managed with small and simple interfaces.The user interface of smart service usually does not provide access to every single connected thing or sensor. The “scenario” concept is pretty common in smart services: it includes conditions, rules and variables that are managed dynamically by the system itself, learning and adapting continuosly the outcomes following contextual situations and user behaviours. Scenarios (recipes, combinations and configurations) can be easily shared with other users of the system making the overall experience more engaging and social.In a smart service users don’t start the experience from a blank page. They A good example is ‘The Grid’, an AI-driven system to generate websites, where the layout and the look and feel of the page adapts automatically to the content inserted by the user. In general, a smart system should be able to make the most user data and contextual information to make the first use of the service even more simple, personalised and relevant for the user.If data and preferences are crucial for smart service outcomes, the user should have the control on the inputs and the outputs of the system, and be able to manage data, settings, preferences and rules that feed the system. Today most of these features are managed with settings, control panels, on-boarding processes, preferences, questionnaires and many other similar features that usually are pretty hidden, boring and secondary for the user experience of many applications and digital services. For example, we all know very well how is complicated to manage the privacy settings in Facebook or the notification system of an internet banking.These features are crucial not only for transparency and for the sake of personal data and privacy, but also to give the user a real control on the service and its outcomes and to make it more personalised, useful and relevant. The user should able to fine tune and update the system configuration continuously, making key settings and preferences easily accessible almost at every step of the experience. The user should be able to see what is behind every automatic decision of the system (“Today many smart systems and experiments are still driven mainly by technology. This is a natural step for any emerging technology before getting mainstream. But the “smartification” of objects is not enough to engage the user and make successful commercial applications. Beyond single connected gadgets and the technical framework, the user value lies in the consistency of the smart platform and in its capability to deliver useful services grounded on actual needs and goals.A well designed user experience is the key for the success of any hyperconnected smart technology. The more connected devices and the technology blend in around us the more a good smart user experience is crucial for service adoption and efficacy. As Mike Kuniavsky writes, we need a new integrated design approach for platforms and services that combines interaction design, industrial design and service design to create smart experiences centred on the users and their real needs and desires.A special thanks to References. (1) K. Worden, W.A. Bullough, J. Haywood, (2) Michael E. Porter, James E. Heppelmann, (3) Tim Worstall, Eric Schmidt’s Quite Right The Internet Will Disappear; All Technologies Do As They Mature, Forbes, 2015 http://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2015/01/24/eric-schmidts-quite-right-the-internet-will-disappear-all-technologies-do-as-they-mature/(4) Mark Weiser, The Computer for the 21st Century, 1991(5) Justin Zalewski, Interaction Design within the Internet of Things, 2014 (6) Mary Treseler, How is UX for IoT different?, O’Reilly Radar, 2014 (7) + Rehabstudio (8) Azure Yang, Simone Rebaudengo, Other references:Steven Hoober and Mudassir Azeemi, Claro Partners, Antonio Regalado, Dave Grey, Everything is a service, 2011 Michael Kuniavsky, Smart Things: Ubiquitous Computing User Experience Design, 2010.Michael Kuniavsky, A pattern for user experience design in predictive analytics Steve Denning, CES: A User’s Guide To The New Economy, Forbes, 2015 Tom Simonite, 2014 Lelylan Blog, We need to improve the Internet of Things User Experience, 2014 Thomas Sutton, Invisible Applications, 2015 Creative Director @ frog - PhD, Interaction Designer and UX strategist, teacher, speaker, music lover

I’ve been coding since I first got my hands on an Apple ][e as a child. I’m also a visual thinker– I’ve been drawing since I could first pick up a pencil.I’ve spent most of my life hearing the conventional wisdom that these two aspects of myself are diametrically opposed. At Stanford, I had to choose between arts  humanities or science — I chose to major in Computer Science, but continued to design posters, t-shirts and flyers for campus events.However, when I took a summer job as a programmer — I found I couldn’t bear to stare at lines of code for 8 hours each day, so I used my evenings to learn about this new thing called the World Wide Web.In the early days of the web, I found a nice balance of both design and technical challenges. These were the days of ‘webmasters’ — where it was assumed that most people building web pages would be responsible for the design and code of websites. I wrote a chat room in Perl, I did the design in HTML tables — I was a happy camper.When the industry got bigger, I had a decision to make. I joined From that point onwards, I’ve marked my professional career on the design side of the fence– specifically in the information design region of the consulting Venn diagram.But at night, I’d go home and, in a darkened room, indulge in my dirty coding habit.Fast forward to 2014, and I think the industry has come full-circle again. Now, I’m a The point of this personal history lesson is to say– I’m passionate about clear visual communication and information design, and I’m equally passionate about making things with code.And therein lies the dilemma–I know I run the risk of inciting the wrath of unix command-line neckbeardy zealots– but it’s true. Writing line after line of code is not an ideal experience. Certainly not for visual thinkers like myself, but I would argue that many bugs and errors are the result of an information design and usability problem due to If you’ve ever spent more than 30 minutes to find a misplaced comma or semi-colon, I rest my case.We’re at the primordial soup phase of visual coding. A few signs of life have appeared with earnest attempts at However, I think we can push this concept further. Given the processing power available on the desktop, I think we can shed the vestigial remnants of the Unix workstation and find the means to create a wholly new, visual language for coding.As I’ve been designing a lot of mobile applications lately, I tend to wonder if the Below are a few concepts I’ve started. Don’t expect them to stand up to scrutiny– this is very much an initial work-in-progress, and the first steps on a very long path on which I hope like-minded people will join me.Hypercontext • Games for Learning  Education • Internet of Things  NFC • Follow 

We weren’t that happy about the way our registration pages look Let’s look at the current interface:This page is used both for logging in and registration. If you are not registered and click on log in, then you’d automatically be registered. This might confuse some users as there’s no explicit “register” option.If you click on “Create a WhoScored account manually”, then you see this page:I read some articles about what are the best practices in the industry, and checked many popular and innovative websites. There’s a consensus about the design in most websites (well, how complex can it be anyways), but there’s clearly not one best way of doing it, but a set of tradeoffs that you need to think of.I don’t know the exact reason but I realised instead of “Register / Log in”, most websites use “Sign up / Sign in”.I decided to have different pages for registration and logging in, then I started to design the registration page.The first thing I changed was to place Facebook registration and manual registration sections side by side instead of placing them vertically, as we humans can read and focus much better when content is grouped in narrow columns instead of wide rows. The reason why it’s on the left is because we prefer users to register via Facebook instead of manually.Secondly, I reduced the number of input fields to a minimum because firstly I’m a big fan of simplicity and minimalistic approaches, and secondly the more fields you add, the less registrations your site will have. I removed “Confirm password” field, as if the user would enter a password that she doesn’t mean to, then she can recover it the next time. Still, I opted for adding a “Show password” field, if the user would click on it, then she’d see what password she’s typing.I embedded field descriptions into the input fields to save space, and added some information about them. I also moved registration benefits to the bottom with a nice phrase, and added a link to login page. Final step was to let the user know we’d never post to Facebook without asking to address any fears that we would.I will also add On-the-fly validation, so that if user enters an incorrect email address or a password that’s not matching our criteria, she’d realise it as she types.Actually there are more data that we ask from the user, but for the sake of not scaring people off, they are kept on the second and final step of registration. Hence the first button’s name on the initial page.The final page of our registration process has the same structure as the first page. All these fields are optional optional and will be noted with with a small tooltip. We will only make “age” mandatory if the user opts for betting newsletter due to legal obligations. I also added preview links to newsletters so that the user can see what she’ll get. Finally, the application will check user’s IP to automatically set her location.If user has registered via Facebook, then she won’t see the section on the left as we get that information from Facebook already.Our login page is almost the same as registration page.So are we supposed to have two different pages? I find Check it out We plan to have the same transition on our site as well. Also I think not having a checkbox to confirm terms and privacy policy provides a smoother user experience.Our new registration pages are scheduled to go live next month, and the when it’s complete, I’ll add provide some more screenshots. Hope you like the new design!Web Engineer Technical blog of 

Product designers like to think of ourselves as the only real champions of users. While the rest of the world hungrily optimizes for revenue, profit, user acquisition and other selfish corporate things, product designers remain the pillars of virtue in a sea of greed- always only looking out for the best user experience.At least, that’s what we like to imagine.But is it true, and is it even possible? AtThe truth is, no one wants to hire a designer who doesn’t make money for the company.My first idea for this article stemmed from a sweeping, grandiose vision to do good for the publishing tech world. As a young designer holding an English Literature and Journalism double major, I made it my mission to combine my love for technology and reading into one. Reading is one of my greatest loves, and I had gone to Journalism school in New York during the era of mass hysteria over print being dead.Everywhere, my professors and fellow students were lamenting the death of the written word as we knew it. But I, being the futurist that I was, was unperturbed. I believed that technology, though seemingly threatening to the publishing world at the time, would end up salvaging it and taking it to the peak of it’s true potential.Fast forward 4 years, and we’re nearly there. But not quite.I started my quest to write an article about creating the best digital reading experience by seeking out designers at publishing-tech companies and getting their thoughts on the subject. One of the first designers I spoke to was Zane Riley, one of the first product designers at Brit + co. After I introduced my passionate spiel about reading and technology, he dropped a truth bomb on me: The publishing-tech world is a tricky world to design for, he said, because these products don’t inherently profit from what makes them useful, such as a seamless reading experience or beautiful, clean UI.I was crestfallen. I had never even considered this. As a student designer, I had zero constraints and didn’t have to think about things like advertising. Yet designing for the real world is not constraint-free, and would people actually pay for an app just to read ad-free content? The answer seems to be no.Earlier this year, the extremely well-loved, well-designed news app The New York Times has long struggled with the transition from print to digital. There is advertising on the Times’ site, but advertising alone probably does not bring in enough to keep a huge operation like the Times on their feet, especially when their main source of revenue used to come from people paying to buy physical newspapers. I cornered the fabulous New York Times designer and graphic editor Jennifer Daniel at a recent Creative Mornings event and asked her: Has the NYT found the secret sauce yet? How are they planning to drive profit in the future?Her answer: No. I DON’T KNOW. NOBODY KNOWS!Journalism and writing is a print-oriented culture, and when you put it online, it suddenly becomes free. But good writing should be worth a lot more than $0.At least there still are people out there who are willing to pay to read the New York Times, which has been around since 1851 and has established itself as probably the most trustworthy, quality news source in the country( I shamefully admit: I love the NYT but I’m still not willing to pay that $3.75 a week for it).But what if you aren’t the New York Times? What if you’re a tiny little startup that wants to create amazing, distraction-free reading experiences for people yet still stay afloat? Is the only option tons and tons of advertising? How do you make the reader’s experience as streamlined and pleasurable as possible while she’s reading on a tiny screen (especially if she’s reading on mobile), when you also have to think about how to stick ads in there and get $$ for page views? And is there even a point in doing that when so many people are using ad blockers?Many ad blockers are free, and when you install them, all ads magically disappear. Apple recently allowed ad blocking software on iOS9, and all readers rejoiced and rushed to take advantage.Unfortunately, ad blockers are also projected to take away more than $1 million in mobile ad revenue this year, and the majority of that revenue will likely be taken from content/ publishing sites.As our sage design instructor Zac Halbert puts it, “Focusing on a great reading experience is one thing, but part of that experience is making sure the site is still there.”Ah, the age old designer’s dilemma. I had finally been initiated.And so began my quest for answers to this question: From a design POV, how can designers help craft amazing reading experiences, yet still help companies monetize?One way around it is the ‘branded experience’ route. Many publications have opted for this route, including Medium, which I must mention as the host of this article in the first place. Essentially, brands will pay to either sponsor or create content on a content site in return for more exposure.By leveraging sponsored content, e.g. the re:form design publication sponsored by BMW, Medium hopes to not have to sacrifice user experience for $$. Facebook and Twitter, though not considered traditional publications, feature sponsored posts, which are pretty much the same idea.Not far from sponsored content lies native advertising. There are businesses out there dedicated to making unobtrusive, ‘native’ looking ads. In fact, I am currently working with one such client at Tradecraft, who is utilizing the While working on the product’s redesign, my team constantly struggled with how to evaluate traditional ideas of ‘usability’ when it came to a product that was essentially advertising. We experimented with whether incorporating text suggesting that the ad could be a part of the native content would simultaneously improve experience and conversion.Once again, it could be argued that this is a way to deliberately mislead the reader, yet if this kind of advertising can make the publication and advertiser money, as well as bring value to the reader’s reading experience, then isn’t it a win win for all?Only problem: Subscription models are another beast. Mostly reserved for long form, this is how NYT pays the bills, and is the ideal for any design-minded publisher as it eliminates the need for all advertising.This doesn’t seem to be a lucrative space though. The verdict is still out on whether people love reading enough to pay for good writing. Subscription E-book company I talked to Catherine “Mao” Kue, a senior designer at Scribd, an e-book subscription company that was once Oyster’s biggest competitor and now the lone survivor in the independent subscription E-Book space, standing tall against Amazon and its weak Kindle unlimited.Mao assured me that reading was not dead, and that Scribd readers were reading more than ever. Though Scribd does not face the same challenges with advertising as shortform digital publications, they feel more pressure to create amazing digital reading experience for people that are as seamless and pleasurable as reading physical books — or there will be no subscribers.If you’re a digital lifestyle publication like Refinery 29 or Brit+Co, you’ve likely explored the ‘commerce + content’ model, otherwise known as trying to get people to shop from your site while they’re reading.Refinery 29 tried this a few years ago and then At Brit +Co, this model is still alive, though the integration between commerce and content is still something that most publications do not seem to have mastered.Of course, what you’re selling doesn’t need to be physical content. The New York Times has a cooking app, which is extremely successful and could be a future instrument of monetization. Could the future of the NYT be in products like these bringing in profit to support the newsroom? Perhaps.When all else fails, there are donations, and many online publications that refuse to implement advertising must rely on donations to keep their business alive.This is often referred to as the ‘the tip-jar’ model, as a site will have a donation link, much like a ‘tip-jar’ at the top of the page.Or, like However, it is still tough to get people to donate (ask Wikipedia), and the solution is not very scalable. This may work for small independent blog owners, but when it comes to a big publishing company, tip-jars will likely bring in no more than chump change.If placing ads is really the only sustainable way for your publication to make money, make sure you are designing their placement in a way that is truly considerate for your readers.One of the reasons Quartz offers such a great reading experience is because it actually considers users in their ads. Co-President Jay Lauf recently penned Instead of disrupting a reader’s entire reading flow by sticking large flashy ads all over the place, Quartz And if we put advertising aside for a moment, there are other basic tenets of digital readability according to content product designers:Consider The future of monetization for publishing could be entirely different from what it is today. Everybody’s A startup called For now, however, the dilemma still persists. I still do not have an answer as to what ‘the best way’ is to design for reading with monetization in mind, but I believe as designers we can hopefully make better choices when we better understand our constraints and the options we have.Hi, I’m May. I write introspective things that I hope people can relate to.Hand-picked articles about journalism, media, and writing. Brought to you by readthisthing.com

You buy a new iPhone.You leave the store and go home, very excited. All you want to do is open the box and start using that new piece of jewelry right away. When you pull up the box lid, a surprising fact: it won’t open immediately.There have been videos made, celebrating the moment.If you have no idea what I’m referring to, pleas watch the first fifteen seconds of this videWhen the lid finally opens, your iPhone is sitting there, waiting for you.Unique, unexpected, delightful.Similarly, when you buy a Kindle from Amazon, the device is already set up with your amazon.com account and all the digital books that you own in it. A thoughtful onboarding experience that not only creates a pleasant surprise for users but, in the long term, avoids the issue of duplicate accounts.Now check out this IxDA Awards-winning project, created by Vitamins Design for Samsung.Samsung has hired Vitamins Design to create a simplified smartphone onboarding experience for its senior users.Rather than designing a dumbed down version of the phone, they’ve decided to take a different approach. They found out through research that those users were actually willing to use all of the phone’s functionalities.The result was a streamlined, gradual approach to the onboarding experience:Older users are not less intelligent or less motivated than younger users. They simply don’t have the same familiarity level with that type of product. They have not been born in that reality; they needed to adapt along the way.Want to run a quick test? Try having an 18- and a 50-year-old person open the package of a new electronic device. You’ll notice that the older person will likely put the equipment aside for a moment and check out the instructions manual to make sure they are following the setup process correctly when turning on the device. The younger user, on the other hand, will put the manual aside and jump straight to the power button. They know they can handle it.Those are two distinct worlds. And you are often hired to design out-of-box experiences that will work for both at the same time.Other great examples include the renowned smart thermostat As pretty much all other challenges in the User Experience Designer’s work, the out-of-box experience is a matter of balancing the brand’s business goals and the user’s personal goals when they peel off the seal and finally put their hands into the product.In the short iPhone story described before, the The The packaging design itself can be crucial during the purchase decision moment. In retail spaces, packagings communicate the product personality even before purchase. Not advertising. Not the product usability.You’re right. If you are reading this, you’re probably not a packaging designer. But you’re very likely a User Experience Designer.Going back to the iPhone story for a moment: the iPhone purchase experience does not end on apple.com’s purchase confirmation screen.The experience actually extends across multiple channels, sometimes created and designed by different companies. But the consumer experience is a single story. And it follows a path that might be longer than you think: from Apple’s Keynote event when the phone is announced, to memorable TV ads that demonstrate the wonderful things the product will empower you to do, to the website homepage, to the online purchase flow, to the physical store, to the purchase confirmation email, to the invoice, to the product packaging. To the 3 seconds that feel like magic.The process of opening the box is often one of the most remarkable moments in the consumer relationship with the brand. It’s the moment of truth, that consummates that relationship and extends it through months, sometimes years. If ads are the vows of love, the out-of-box experience is the sex of UX.If you are interested in the topic I recommend that you flip through the presentation below, created by Harry Brignull and Pete Gale (Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

All Product Designers first of all worry (I hope so) about the following questions:In this article I would like to reveal possible solutions, we, designers, could (or even must) resort to designing better UX in Longterm prospective.The first date in design world is a First Time User Experience. It’s a process of involvement to a new product and learning of what-and-how the user can solve with this product. In case, you do not explain what-and-how on the first date, will not make it gently and carefully, or rather overload him with the unnecessary information — the user would be lost. If not on the registration step, then after. Therefore, bad user onboarding rate and the upcoming CRR.The First Time UX can be divided into two parts: visible and invisible to the user. Roughly speaking:Let’s take a look at a simple example. On the first entrance after the registration in some good social network, the feed (or the timeline) will be full of relevant content specified exactly for you. It’s based on your email, contacts, sometimes even photos at your Camera Roll, etc.Another example — Spark Mail by Readdle, I’ve been working on for the last 18 months. Here are some simple things we at Readdle can learn the user registered:So we can adapt the interface and the flow to a specific user.Okay. The first few dates take a short period in the relationship. Right? So, what’s next? How to keep the user for longer? What should we do? And here comes the Longterm User Experience.As the First Time UX the Longterm UX can be divided in many parts. But in this article I would like to dive into one of them. The design of possible solutions we, designers, should implement into our products to make the user-product relationship stronger through the time. I’m talking about the “self-learning” solutions, based on the usage auto-analysis, made on the product side.To be clear let’s take a look at the few existing examples.The Mailbox itself can recognize what you do with your emails. If you are archiving or deleting or listing the emails from the same sender pretty often, Mailbox will suggest you to setup the auto-swipe for that action.In the Recommended section you will find the articles specifically selected for you. They are based on the keywords from the article titles and tags already added by you and the articles added by other people. But they have one problem right now — they do not check the list for duplicates. Anyway, it’s another case.Of course, there are many examples in other products. But these two I have quoted just to make you understand the point. Now, let’s dive in.Let’s start with Spotify and their Activity section and related Friends’ feed.For the past 3+ years of active usage, I have never used Activity section and never followed anybody. Therefore, I have a simple question: Why do I still see this section? As well as the Friends Feed column, which takes a lot of place on my screen? Why do I still get some Friends suggestions?..Yeah, yeah, I know. This is a part of the product itself, of Spotify network or whatever it is… BUT, if I didn’t use it at all for past 3 years, do you still believe I will start to next time?…And Yeah, yeah, once again. You may say:And I will reply to you: Okay, so what is the possible solution here? The designers at Spotify could cover this case with just one simple dialog. It could be shown just right after 2 months of usage, for instance.After you have paid for the Premium Account you are able to change the streaming quality on Extreme (it’s just a 320kbps). But! The only place where you will be notified about that is… Settings. Firstly, you should get there first. Then you should go Settings  Streaming Quality  and in Stream (why not Streaming already?) Quality hit Extreme. Then you will see a popup with a message that this feature is available for Premium Account only.So, the dialog below could be a possible solution. It can be shown just right after you became a Premium user. Of course, it’s a rough design, but the idea is clear.Yes, I do understand in this case a lot of people would choose Extreme one and the load on the Spotify’s servers will increase exponentially. But I would like to remind the fact we are talking here about the possible solutions only. That’s it.Anyway, it would be nice to hear any feedback by Let’s move on.Let’s say you frequently use Gaussian Blur Filter. For each single case, you should go to Filters  Blur  Gaussian Blur. In that case there are two possible solutions of how we can help to the user.Now let’s dive even deeper. Who remembers the following combo at Photoshop?Yep, copy-past-Save for Web. Sometimes I made this combo hundred times per day!So, let’s imagine the ideal world where Adobe has implemented a tricky way to track the combinations of actions you use often during the day. And in case you have repeated the same combo, let’s say, for the tenth time per last 2 hours, Photoshop will show you the following dialog. It could suggest setting up an action on this combo and on the next step — suggestions with possible shortcuts for this action.Now let’s speak a little bit about animations. The animations can be:This year I have been on the private preview of AppleWatch at AppleLabs, London. My mission was to test Spark Mail AppleWatch extension and the watch itself. The notifications, in particular. Even then I have asked myself: “Goddamn, every time a get a new notification why I should watch this animation for 1.5sec?”. I got sick with it after 10–15 notifications. Moreover, your eyes are constantly moving because they follow the application icon automatically. It is not right…Therefore, the possible solution here is to avoid the Short Look Notification (on the left) and show the Long Look (on the right) immediately.Now, animations in games.The Hearthstone. No worries, fans, I like this game too! :) But I don’t want to see how nicely the card is flying away from the stock, how the sparks are shining around it, etc. on my every single move. I want to fight! I want to make the next step right now. I want to kick out my opponent asap… I think you got my point.The same problem is in other games like Cut the Rope, Megarun and many more. They all have the same screens with the scoring points and gained stars. Everything on this screen is moving, jumping, pumping, booming and so on… Some of these animations take 4–5 seconds or even more till the gamer gets the final result and is able to go on. Yes, some games have implemented the option ‘Tap to skip’. But not all.Anyway, the possible solution here can be in decreasing the duration and increasing the speed of the animations by-and-by till some limits.One more complex example is taken from our B2B product called Fluix. I will tell you about it in brief so that you can understand what the example is about. I started working on the 2.0 version 6 months ago already. Damn, time goes fast…Anyway, this is a SaaS project at B2B sector which allows to automate the workflow within the company. Here is a simple workflow example.Fluix allows to automate such workflows. After a one-time setup, everything will be carried out by pressing the button after each stage. One button, Karl!Okay, now let’s go back to the example. Let’s say the administrator should send the same contract to 124 employees to sign it quarterly. He takes the contract on a certain day, renames it by adding a date-prefix, hits Send and a composer in the field TO starts listing the emails of all 124 employees separated by commas… Or marking them by checkboxes in the contacts list. Awful drudgery…So the possible solution here can be the dialog below. It should be shown to the admin as soon as he sends the very first contract. This dialog will suggest to create a group for all of employees, name it, set a specific reminder and set a path where the contract (file itself) should be taken.The last simple example and we finish. I promise.Your iPhone (Android) always knows where you are geographically. So, let’s say every week you visit the same Starbucks at least 5 times, Gym at least 3 times, office at least 5 times, some favorite restaurant at least 2 times, and so on… At each of these places, you use the specific set of applications. Starbucks — News, Facebook, Twitter. Gym — Nike+ Runner, Spotify, Strava… And so on.I think you’ve caught already what I’m driving to. Yes, determine your current location and give you a certain set of the apps on one separate screen which you always enjoy at this place.Yes, of course, such solutions should be designed really cautiously. Here we must take into account the user privacy and security. Don’t cause irritation. Don’t disrupt the workflow. Be consistent and apropos.But if we want to improve UX permanently, build a really strong relationship between the user and your product, then we must design UX in Longterm perspective! Besides, with such solutions we can not simplify and improve the user productivity, save the user time and hassle, but also make the interface cleaner and get rid of unnecessary noise and elements. Thereby reduce the cognitive load on the user’s brain. Also, these solutions are easily scalable.And guys,Lead Product Designer, Fluix dep. 

When Images Courtesy of Inside Intercom, How did this happen? For starters, app users felt like they needed more control and more opportunities to choose what they wanted to do when interacting with a mobile app. This is psychologically understandable and consistent with modern theories of gamification and customer engagement. Users started to advocate for more, including notifications, related content, social interaction, and actions newsfeeds. In fact, independent apps without integration and that need to be opened each time in order to be used just don’t make sense. The idea of In the meantime, a mobile app shouldn’t display just as a block of interchanging cards filled with content. Instead, it should be flexible and fit any app design, dividing your content into atomic units so you can guarantee it works with any device or platform — just like Facebook, which isn’t just a website with content anymore. It’s a multifaceted platform that works on desktop, mobile (both browser version and app), and messengers. This means that Facebook is a system, not just a range of interchanging pages or content containers.This change is also apparent in the new features of the iOS 8 Notification Center and Android KitKat — for example, you can conduct some actions without having to leave the notification itself (i.e., without entering the app). The The pictures below demonstrate how you can share and save articles, respond to texts, and attach pictures to messages right from the notification experience.Images Courtesy of Inside Intercom, The same applies to messengers. The integration of photo shooting and video recording is a must for every social messenger, such as Facebook and Viber.Image Courtesy: Publ.com BlogBut this isn’t anywhere near the end of the road: notifications are forecasted to tweet and retweet, post your Facebook updates, show geographical locations, buy goodies on Amazon, pay your bills, book a restaurant, listen to a text message read by Siri as you drive, and dictate your reply. The list goes on and on, as far as the current functionality of mobile apps. App designers should understand that people install apps not to open them but to receive timely and useful notifications, reminders, and promo messages.One way this new concept may look like in 5–10 years is just as a range of cards that can be flipped horizontally and vertically and that contain interactable content.Image Courtesy of Inside Intercom, The next step would be putting content into containers based on your location and the action you take. Stores can do this when you go shopping at one of their locations — and the payment information after you use your credit card comes to you the same way. All these technologies are in place today and only need a bit more time and integration to fully emerge. This centralization will make desktop websites and even separate mobile apps obsolete, putting the convenience of users above everything else. Opening apps will still be possible for deep engagement and deep context, but not for everyday app routines. And, due to higher competition among notifications, app designers will need to work hard on functionality and the look of the pushes they send out to app users.As you see, 

Pinterest is an amazing visual discovery tool that has revolutionized the way images and link collections are displayed. The product has transformed the sharing of do it yourself projects, wedding ideas, vacation plans, crafts and more.Pinterest’s popularity continues to grow. Today, Determine pain points of casual (defined as less than weekly usage) Pinterest users.What — Pinterest web appWho — Casual Pinterest users who previously found value in the service but now use it less than weekly. Five users agreed to be participate in the test. The testing group consisted of 3 men and 2 women. All testers had used Pinterest previously but did not consider themselves ‘regular’ or ‘daily’ users. All five users were asked open-ended questions and vocalize their interactions with the site along with any frustrations or suggestions for improvements.Each user was assigned a color. Each noted pain point was depicted on a color-coded post-it note.Pain Points were first organized by testing objective to help see trends across users. They were then grouped into common complaints in order to determine the most repeated pain points.Three out of the five users had difficulty locating where their boards were located from the main Pinterest page. A couple also clicked on the ‘hamburger’ button to the left of the search. Users also clicked on “+” button next to their name to in an attempt to find where their board was located. After clicking on the “+” button, they finally clicked on the profile button to the right. Even after they clicked on their profile, they still weren’t confident whether “My Profile and Pins” on the menu was the correct link to click.“My Profile and Pins” is a the easiest way to see a person’s boards. It should be visible and immediately accessible from the main screen. Displaying it as a prominent button next to other commonly used features makes it easy to find.Every person was frustrated by the difficulty of trying to create a new board. To many users, the “+” made sense to create a board. Even after clicking the “+” to pin an item though, two additional screens were presented before the board was actually created. If a board was created after attempting to pin an existing link, the current process is actually three distinct screens—2 input screens plus a ‘pin suggestion’ at the end. Each screen was slow to load and had additional little value. Most users said that they did not see the value of placing a location on a pin. The third screen of suggested content to pin was never clicked. Each screen takes anywhere from 2-6 seconds to load. That also frustrated the participants. Additionally, two of the people had a difficult time closing the last window that offered suggestions of other content to view.A simple solution is to pop-up an “Add a New Board” form in a light box window above the main Pinterest page. Every participant complained about the slowness of creating a new board on Pinterest. The entire three-screen process could be replaced by a single light box window that opens over the main Pinterest screen.Users were asked to pin five links to the new board that they created. Multiple users wished that there was a faster process to pin multiple links quickly.Permitting the pinning of multiple links is a difficult challenge based on the way Pinterest is built. One option to simplify the pinning process would be to make the pin button as a drop-down scrolling menu once the “PinIt” button is clicked. This would enable multiple pins to be selected in a relatively short period of time and without leaving the main board.The next step for my project is to test my design suggestions for their effectiveness and usability. I believe that small changes can result in a greatly improved user experience. I am also interested in learning more about how Pinterest prioritizes their pins to display the most relevant search content. Pinterest Program manager, pilot and entrepreneurial thinker. Love innovation, technology, new ideas and America too. Now living in San Francisco.

A list of books.I don’t believe in a UX ‘bible’ or absolute must-read set of literature but below are a few of my favorites books that won’t steer you wrong.User Experience Designer 

This post will focus on actually running the tests. The next and final post will explain how to take the information gathered and parse it with your team in a meaningful way.The day has arrived and it’s time to actually show the participants what you’ve been building! I’m going to break this into the following sections:It’s exciting, but will be a pretty exhausting day, so get plenty of sleep before and arrive at your testing site at least an hour in advance of your first interview to get set up.I like to arrange the seating so the participant and I are sitting by the corner of a square table, or at the 12 oclock and 3 o’clock position of a round table. Set your computer up in front of you, and the camera facing directly down in front of the participant. It makes the conversation feel a little more natural, but they can’t see what’s going on on my computer.With the camera plugged into my laptop and using the included software, I could see the participant’s hands and phone fullscreen on my laptop. To capture the sessions, I recorded the video of my screen and the audio from the microphone on my computer using When the participant arrived, I’d invite them into the room and before recording, give them a general idea of who I was and what to expect during the session.When introducing myself, I wouldn’t be totally honest. Although I’m the CEO, I introduced myself as barely part of the team. My line was usually:Then I usually make sure they understand that they aren’t being tested:Finally, I give some structure for the session:Then I position their phone in the frame and say “I’m going to start recording now”.This will be different for everyone, so I’ll just talk about how I did it you can modify your own way depending on what you’re testing.We were testing a new on-boarding flow for In the next steps, as the participant is going through your prototype, most likely they’ll ask you questions like “What does this button do?”, “Am I registered yet?”, and other basic stuff. It’s important that you don’t answer any of these questions. Remember, you don’t know. You’re just helping the team test an app you’re not that familiar with.For our simulation, I texted the participants a message saying “Hey! Check out this new app: [url]“. I told the participant “Pretend a friend sent you this message. There’s no context, just a link to the App Store.”When the participant clicked the link, it sent them to a mock App Store page we built with a title, screenshots, and a description. It wasn’t as fully functional as the real App Store, but it worked for our purposes. On this page, I’d ask them things like:Once I feel like we learned all we could from this step, I asked them to install the app. They tap “Install” and it pulls the app from the App Store and puts it on their home screen.Exciting! The user is actually IN the prototype! This is when the really great feedback starts flowing.The on-boarding we tested involved a scrolling intro screen and a “Get Started” button at the bottom. I would usually have the participant spend about 5 minutes looking at this screen, during which I asked them:It’s worth noting that most real users skip over these types of screens. In my opinion, that doesn’t render testing them useless because some people actually read them, and if you’re going to have one, it’s best to make sure it’s really clear.Once I feel like we’ve exhausted the feedback coming from this screen, I tell them to move onto registration.We love testing our registration page because we offer several ways of signing up (Facebook, Google, and email), and it’s great to listen to participants talk about what they are comfortable with and why. As things like:I think this is a really valuable step, and you’ll probably learn something from it.Cluster requires the user to create something right away, and we were testing a new version of this flow. It’s hard to summarize that here because it’s so specific to what’s being tested, but essentially I watched the participant go through each step and continually asked:Again, hard to generalize, but what I tried to learn is how well the app was communicating what was actually happening.In addition, you learn a lot about button placement, confusing wording, weird user flows that made a lot a sense to your team, but no sense to someone who’s never seen the app before.Even after the user created their first album on Cluster (the goal of the study), I just sat quietly to see what came out as they explored the product. In 4 out of 5 sessions the participant kept talking about stuff they liked, disliked, didn’t understand. Learnings galore.Before ending the session, I’d ask:After a couple minutes, I’d tell them that their feedback has been really helpful, and end the recording. Then I’d give them the Amazon certificate and reiterated how grateful I was for everything they shared.The first one will be rocky. That’s fine, they’ll get easier. So get ready for the next one. It’s going to be a long day.You now have a set of amazing feedback recorded from your participants. If the team wasn’t able to watch them live, the next step is a team debrief. The next post will cover how to pull the best insights out of what the participants have shared. For now, pack up and go relax. The hard part is over.Please feel free to reach out to me at Entrepreneur, Designer, Engineer. Co-founder of Thoughts and learnings about mobile development from the LaunchKit team.

We have a brand new device which will need our design care very soon – Apple Watch. I decided to take a break from work and try something totally new, which lead me to this project to visualise This device is Focus only on the core feature. User Experience HAS TO be just a few clicks/touches, because users will always have their iPhones in their pockets and use it for anything more complex. One piece of information per screen is key to making a great user experience on Apple Watch. For me, this device will be a totally straight forward user experience which will use only swipes. The key feature on this device will definitely be nice animations.Take a look at, for example, how This is exactly what should be stunning on this small device. A lot can be done with images because you don’t have enough space to fit more than a few words.A good use case would be to check notifications, new likes, etc. quickly without having to use my iPhone to check how big a response I got to my last tweet or status.The most useful will be on demand apps such as Uber, where you could summon a driver with just a tap. Or imagine heading to your favorite McDonalds or Starbucks and quickly ordering the same as you had yesterday and automatically paying for it. Your order could be ready right after you arrive.Reminders and Alarms should also be nice. Now we are bringing in the concept of focusing on just one thing at a time. Imagine that with every glance at your watch it would say: “You need to call your mom!” or “Buy her a ring!”. Basically focus on easy and quick UX. Quickly say “Send a message to Carl: I’m late.” and it’s sent.I like the idea of sending drawn pictures. But not from watches. The viewport is so small, that you can’t even fit 3 buttons in a row. How am I supposed to draw on it? And why? I think most of our friends will be sending us just one drawing (Personally, I don’t see the point of checking my bank account on Apple Watch. I want to see quick information like my pulse, time, notifications from social networks, missed calls etc. I see Watches just like a bridge for small interactions before I’ll take iPhone out of my pocket. The same is true with big apps. Maybe just because of lack of real information on how it could work, but I’m still quite sceptical of reading my twitter feed or Facebook timeline on Apple Watch. I don’t really see why I wouldn’t just pick up my phone and read 7 tweets per screen, instead of reading one – which will be also incredibly small.Basically, everything with more than 3 screens per result sounds complicated.I was facing the question: How will current apps be able to adapt to Apple Watch? I took this question seriously and tried to find an experience which users can get. I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about adapting some of my favorite apps for Apple Watch. All of these concepts are done for discussion. Most of them even follow the rules I mentioned before.It’s hard to design for something you haven’t tried. For one, there’s no Skala Preview. I used split screen with smart objects to see the results as they would appear on the device. I also used an edited One of the award winning apps from the Yahoo Design team, Yahoo News should be pretty cool on Apple Watch. After launch, you’ll have a list of news and with just a tap you’ll be able to listen to the news story. With just a swipe, you’ll hear what the news is about (headline). Apple Watch will be always ready to tell you the news – for example from business or science. It will be also nice if all articles were read by a Yahoo speaker, not just a robotic voice.This is basically my total favorite, and I’m really excited to see what the Shazam design team will bring to Apple Watch. This is exactly one of those ‘On Demand apps’ which I mentioned before. Do you hear a nice tune? You don’t need to search for your phone, just touch your Apple Watch and wait. That’s it. The UX is just open app - wait (watch epic animation, based on the tune you hear) - result. That’s it.I cut out all the premium features and kept only the reading of messages, voice answers and calls. I can imagine that I receive a notification – “Hi Jan, we were supposed to call. Ping me” – and with just a click on answer, then hold chat with this person to reach an action dialog and choose to call them. Or quickly say with voice answer, “Sorry mate, I’ll be ready in an hour”.What is funny is how Apple currently deal with long names. If you take a look at their promo screens all names in the address book are just 4 characters long. Sweet.These screens were announced during Apple Keynote in September 2014. You can see how Twitter deals with a single tweet design on Apple Watch.That’s it. These are the thoughts I have after spending a week designing for Apple Watch. I personally enjoyed the challenge, but I’m still not sure if I like this product. I can’t imagine myself talking to my wrist. I’m reminded of a question my friends had after iPad was released – How will we call from an iPad?I think that it is just a matter of time until developers from all around the world will show us their thoughts and apps which will change our lives again. I’m quite ready for that reality.The Apple Watch is expected to be available in early 2015, with prices starting at $349. Apple plans to release the WatchKit SDK, required for making Apple Watch Apps, to developers in November 2014. Will you be buying one?P.S. I’m still looking forward to day when will have something like this: (UI  Interaction Designer from London. I’m tweeting as 

I n terms of digital user experience strategy, many obstacles and temptations stand in the way of making the right decision. The 5 following examples illustrate the most recurring and most stubborn of them all, those which hopelessly lead us away from user centered design.This is perhaps the most persistent poison that currently prevents digital from growing and being structured properly. Many decision-makers think the way they always have, namely, that they are the ones who make all the decisions, that they have the last word, and impose their vision, ignoring any user opinions. As they are not typically users themselves (or are minimal users), they don’t understand the real issues of digital and make decisions following their instincts. Unfortunately, the role of instinct in digital today is pretty minimal, and designing a site or an application requires especially advanced knowledge of consumer’s needs and behaviors, leading to a lasting and effective digital strategy.As these decision-makers are also mostly convinced that their authority is based on having the last word, negotiation is often very difficult : operational teams are forced to execute an idea which they do not believe in. As a result :That’s a lot of disappointment for a lot of used energy, and in the end, a lot of money spent.You should know that on average, when a digital project is being developed, “In the English government’s recent Another phenomenon is the Copycat : often powerless facing to making decisions on digital, some companies prefer to copy what has already been done on the web, unfortunately without considering the context, whether it is brand or users.Such an appreciated gimmick which was systematically requested in digital briefs: “We would like a home page like the Netvibes page,” (a little like our boss who loves ponies up above). It’s a completely functional choice disconnected from any analysis of the user’s needs. So we could see the emergence of e-commerce sites with a home page having a modular interface. Therefore the brand was convinced that consumers would spend time customising their experience on the site. Look for the error with that.Digital has its “trends”: internet-connected glasses, Big Data, Retargeting, etc. Although some of these trends are justified and respond to real development in the digital experience (such as, for example, responsive design), others are badly exploited and most often used as an element of communication, more than as an element to improve the digital presence.Characteristically, the QR code was one of those Buzzwords : stammering in its beginnings, it was quickly used excessively on all paper / packaging / posters. A kind of reflex that was more a virtue of communication ( “ We know how to do digital ” ) than a virtue of experience ( “ You can get additional information through this QR code ” ). Moreover, in the majority of cases, either the associated link redirected users to an unrelated or only slightly related page (for example, the home page vs. a specific page that is linked to QR code’s context), or to a page not optimized for mobile phones, which is pretty inconvenient for readability.So, yes to going with the innovations of the time, but always with a vision focused on the user: if it turns out that this innovation does meet a user’s need in any circumstance, maybe it’s better to never even put it in place (even if it is in style ☺).Oriented design technology imagines that the digital world is based on an industrial revolution, and it’s hard to disagree with that. If technology is not mastered in all ways, the whole experience will fall apart. On the other hand, straying from technical limitations to create a digital experience is likely to lead to an overly rational interface with a rather complex use. This is the kind of interface that tells you that For a long time, this design vision has governed the creation of software that comes with a thick user manual, to allow users to understand all the software’s tips and tricks. However, everyone knows that people love manuals. Or not. So, yes, of course, technology is the base of any digital presence, but it shouldn’t be the starting point for a strategic reflection of experience.The debate between “style and substance” is often still all the rage at digital interface design workshops. On one hand, the artistic director, the custodian of the brand and its codes, and on the other hand, the designer, the guardian with respect to the quality of interaction with the brand.To share a short story, I had the opportunity to work on the redesign of an insurance website a few years ago. We prototyped the interface, placed items in the header and the body of the page, etc… But before being created, the branding agency vetoed it, stipulating that the logo should be a minimum size of x pixels by y pixels. Even after long negotiation, it was necessary to deconstruct the header to squeeze this nice logo into a tight space. * sigh *In terms of digital user experience strategy, many obstacles and temptations stand in the way of making the right decision. The 5 examples above are not bad in themselves, but should not be exclusive in the decision-making process. A good digital experience must meet technical and brand constraints, it can draw on, without necessarily copying, features already present on the web, it can ride on current innovations, and of course, it can benefit from the instincts of an informed decision maker.But more than anything, it is really the user’s analysis that will guide the reflection, to develop an eco-system and interface that is useful, simple, and effective, and responds a real need, while respecting the brand’s goals. And finally, we must iterate, week after week, to make this experience evolve step by step, always in the direction of both the user and the brand.French digital optimist  UX Design activist — Video games  Music lover. Réflexions autour du monde digital, avec un petit penchant pour l’UX Design.

I read the WEIRDEST article today. Some miscellaneous guy was rambling on about how he is anti user research and usability testing because of the quote that may or may not (no one can can seem to verify) have been said by Henry Ford: “If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said a faster horse.”I got more and more irritated the longer I read the article, and by the end wanted to grab a megaphone and scream in the guy’s face, “YOU DON’T UNDERSTAND USER RESEARCH!”Let me elaborate.When conducting user research you need to talk to your users to find out what their problem areas are. User research is an incredible way to gain insight into what your clients need, and where your product pain points are, but you have to ask the RIGHT QUESTIONS. You can’t just ask, “What do you want me to make for you next?” If that’s how you’re conducting user research, you’re doing it wrong.User Research and Usability Testing are the core of UX design, but they’re steps that lead the design process; they aren’t the entire process itself.You need to ask what kinds of problems your users are facing, so that you can bring that information back to your design team to brainstorm ways you can help SOLVE those problems.Every design we work on, the first thing my VP says during a brainstorming meeting is, “Which user problem are we trying to solve here?” We focus on coming up with the best solution to the problem and weave it into a killer product or feature.Could we ask, “What do you want us to make you next?” Absolutely, our clients would tell us. We could build exactly what each client asks for, but we’d end up with a bunch of similar yet slightly different features, since user needs vary greatly.By asking about the problems our clients face, we are able to identify trends in the market. “Look, 75% of the clients we interviewed are facing a similar problem, lets design a solution to address it!” Boom. Happy clients, designers with the freedom to come up with innovative solutions, and fab product results.I’m not saying that you can’t ask clients what they want, and then make enhancements based directly on that feedback. The clients are the ones using the product day in and day out, they know when something isn’t usable. I’m saying that if you ask your clients what they want you to change, you need to follow up with a question asking WHY they want it to change, to ensure that you’re not just putting a band-aid on something that needs a complete facelift.In my opinion, Henry Ford (?) was correct in that user research is not a process of making users design their own solutions. Getting the feedback, “I want a faster horse,” means horses aren’t fast enough for the users. The problem is speed, user research = successful. Then you design a faster, innovative solution — the Model A, later the mega popular Model N, and even later the famous Model T.So to the miscellaneous guy who is hating on User Research and Usability Testing I just want to say: User research is the key to ensuring that you’re designing useful products that will solve problems and make your users lives easier. It also helps ensure that you’re not designing an elegant solution that no one wants or needs. User research is NOT asking your clients to design your products for you, FYI. /rant :)UX  Content Strategist at 

While web design has become a hot commodity in today’s competitive market, many clients still don’t have a clear understanding of what exactly they are trying to accomplish with their website. The most frequently listed goal is “establishing an online presence”, but the sheer vagueness of the statement makes it not much more than wishful thinking.This is why user experience, or UX design, is very much in demand: it’s a fresh take on the design process; one that emphasizes ease of use and access for the user, instead of useless features or design elements. One of the main purposes of UX design is finding the right balance between adhering to the users’ needs and accomplishing business goals of the website.Of course, since UX design is a relatively fresh concept, there are still a lot of misconceptions on the subject, ranging from the simple misunderstanding of the fundamental principles of the UX, to reaching false conclusions on the approaches that work.So here are seven of the most common UX design myths that are still doing the rounds well into 2015. Let’s put them to bed once and for all…All businesses have a user experience. It’s just that not all businesses design their user experience. When your company dispatches an invoice, the tone of that invoice can be on-brand, or it can be a template; both solutions will get you paid, but one of them also stands a better chance of retaining your customer’s business. When your company answers the phone, you can match the approach of your website, or you can provide a disjointed approach; both result in a conversation, but one stands a better chance of winning new business.Think of how awesome it is to watch a service like Netflix on your phone whilst you commute, then to automatically transfer to your TV when you get home. That’s a consistent user experience. If Netflix didn’t tie those two devices together, you’d be getting the same product, but the user experience wouldn’t be so sweet.The misconception that has caused the most businesses to fail ever, would probably be that users make rational decisions. Thousands, if not millions of great ideas have failed because people didn’t account for the fact that just because your product is the rational choice when you take into account all the objective facts, it won’t necessarily be the choice for people in your market.Sometimes subjective, irrational aspects influence the buying decision the most; and figuring out those triggers for your user experience can make all the difference.Perhaps the most common mistake of any business marketing itself, is believing that it understands its audience, knows what they like, and what they expect from the company. This should be made clear to all businesses: you always love your product too much, and think that others must love it, too. The only way to achieve results is to test everything and collect clear, comparable and objective data.Understanding customers can only come from in-depth research. If a company makes assumptions about the experience users need, then the company is designing for itself. Sure, you’ll hit the mark by chance sometimes, but if you want to be confident designing a user experience assume you know nothing, and research research research.Many still look at UX design as some magical formula that’s supposed to “fix” a design’s problems, but in fact, UX design encompasses the entire design process and beyond. If a brand is a company’s values, then UX is how the company implements those values.UX plays a huge role in web design, but its importance extends beyond the Web into every aspect of a business and especially into areas where that business connects with its customers.While usability is an essential part of any UX and web design, the fact is that natural principles of business and targeting can’t be ignored as well. In order for a design to be a success both financially and as a branding tool, learnability and behavioral-emotional responses by the target audience have to be studied and then implemented. It represents an essential part of the equation in the success of a project.Perhaps one of the more common UX design myths is that it is a project that can be finished and put to bed. The fact is that because of the insurmountable opportunities for improvement, and the ever-changing landscape of the online markets, only those that continually monitor and work to improve their user experience can achieve measurable and sustainable success.When companies implement a UX design, it’s not about choosing to rebrand, or adding a new channel to contact customers. UX design results in a UX strategy, and that strategy needs to be referred back to anytime a decision is taken in the company.In this age of technology, many businesses have been dazzled by the flashy possibilities of new, emerging technology, but just because a new technology is available, doesn’t mean that it’s the best option, especially when it comes to UX design. Technology is just a tool to achieve results, which means improving the user experience; and if it doesn’t serve that purpose, it’s simply a waste of time and resources.Remember that UX design is about the customer, and customers often don’t have the time or inclination to retrain in order to understand something new. Implementing new technology is fine, provided that it meshes seamlessly with your existing business so that established customers aren’t alienated.Even though UX design is increasingly recognized as an essential tool for business, too many clients, and too many designers, view it as part of a website design project. That couldn’t be further from the truth. UX design is an all-encompassing approach that covers everything from web design through to customer service. Running an ecommerce store, UX design covers not only the design of your site, but your returns policy too. Running a blog, UX design gives your unsubscribe process as much attention as your sign-up.The most important thing to remember is that all businesses have a user experience, it’s just that the smart ones choose to design theirs, the others leave it to chance.Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

I agree that “Product Thinking” is critical to User Experience but aren’t these ideas already a crucial part of user centered design thinking? If you are a UX designer and you are not “building the right features for the right people” you are not a 

I started OpenDNS to create a DNS service that was better than what was available. The year was 2005 and when it came to DNS, ISPs were pretty much your only option. And ISP-provided DNS was far from good. It was a cost center for them, relegated to the old servers gathering dust in the corner. They had no incentive to invest in this critical piece of infrastructure, despite it influencing so much of your Internet connection’s performance. ISP-provided DNS was slow, unreliable and did nothing to protect you online, despite being (in hindsight, thanks to OpenDNS) an obvious vector for security enforcement.DNS was an unpoliced conduit for the spread of phishing attacks, malware and other nefarious stuff. All these bad things needed DNS to propagate or execute their attack. The mission for OpenDNS was to change that and give people everywhere around the world a better DNS — one that’s safer, faster and more reliable.This was a fantastically fun endeavor — reimagining something fundamental that everyone on the Internet uses and unrestrained by concerns about what was or wasn’t possible or had been done in the past. We automatically blocked phishing sites, gave administrators the power to filter unsavory content if appropriate (on school, library or corporate networks, for example) and boosted speed and reliability by making smarter caching decisions behind the scenes. We opened up the black box of DNS and allowed it to be a platform for services, unlocking so much more of its potential. Tens of millions of people switched to OpenDNS, but we needed to make money, too — we’ve always been a revenue-focused company.When we originally thought about OpenDNS, we really thought of what we were doing as It made all the sense in the world to provide this navigation service for free to users and to support it through ads whenever we showed search results. We struck a deal with Yahoo! to serve the search results and ads, and with that the OpenDNS Guide was born. It worked well, and we became a profitable company quickly.The way the Guide works is this: If you’re one of the 50 million people using OpenDNS’ free DNS service and you attempt to visit a website that isn’t resolving (the site’s having technical difficulties or you mistyped its URL), we take you to the Guide. We parse what you typed in the address bar and show you relevant search results in a hopefully helpful attempt to get you back on your merry way. Alongside those search results are ads. Around the time we launched OpenDNS it was one of the most trafficked pages on the Internet. Today, for a variety of reasons, you rarely see it, but back then it was extremely common. The Guide appeared when you’d try to load a webpage that didn’t exist, instead of your browser’s “Server not found” error message.It worked great for several years, but as it happens with technology, the state of the art evolved at a fast clip. Most notably, there were dramatic shifts in the way technology enabled us to navigate the Internet. Enter the omnibox, known to most of you as the Chrome browser today. It built on our idea and turned the address bar into a search field, accommodating behavior that happened anyway and made it so you could type just a phrase into the address bar and be taken to a page of Google search results. We knew, and know, the omnibox provides the superior user experience: it was built into the browser as code, and had more smarts than using DNS alone allowed, providing a better user experience. For a while, we tried to improve our experience, but it was a losing battle. We also realized it meant fighting Google on the only strategic battlefield that matters to them. Google’s only real battlefield is anything that gets between the user and the advertisement. That’s not a fight we wanted to be in.In that same period of time, we also invented and brought to market a new enterprise security service. One that only we — with those 50M geographically-distributed users — could. It’s called Umbrella and it uses a combination of machine learning and big data from our DNS traffic to predict and spot threats across the Internet based on analyzing our own data, along with billions of other datapoints from around the Internet. Our security labs are full of researchers who build algorithms to understand how malware spreads, and who build classifiers and anomaly detection systems to identify as-of-yet unknown Internet threats. This predictive nature of our service means we have the capability to identify threats other security vendors don’t. And because it’s based on DNS, it’s delivered as a service, and it’s not perimeter-dependent like most existing security solutions. Again, we’re seeing sign-ups in droves, but this time we’re being paid for it. It felt good to again reimagine something and build it, and see customers reap much value from it.And I’ll say that the relationship between us and our customers is stronger, because we are building a service for the people who are paying for it. We’re not in some weird three-way handshake that is difficult to balance where we want a great user experience on the one hand, but we get paid by advertisers on the other hand. The cognitive dissonance was getting unwieldy. And frankly, nobody loves ads. At best, ads are a thing you have to do, and you make them as good as you can, when there isn’t a better business model. And for consumer services, there rarely is anything that performs better than ads.Our enterprise service contributes the vast majority of our revenue now, but not all of it. Those ads from the Guide still account for a meaningful amount of money on our balance sheet, on the order of millions of dollars annually. That put us at a crossroads where we were conflicted by the meaningful amount of revenue from the ads on the Guide and the truth that, today, they lessen our DNS service’s user experience.We first asked ourselves, “Why do people choose our DNS service?” The answers took me back to that place in 2005 when we set out to do something I saw as noble and important. Make the Internet better by giving people a superior option in DNS. They choose it because it’s safer, faster and more reliable — all 50 million+ of them. And the Guide, originally designed as a way to keep people moving forward, now rarely shows up, and when it does, we know it isn’t the right experience. The guide delivers an experience that’s not inline with what they expect or want. So it has to go.There’s also the elephant in the room: ads and security don’t mix. It’s clear to us that they are fundamentally incompatible. Text ads and banners alike, they’re all vectors for the spread of malware. We’re a security company first, trusted and relied on by Fortune 100 organizations to protect their people, data and networks. Anything that weakens our security offering by introducing vulnerabilities is a conflict. As we’ve become more and more of a security company, it was clear ads couldn’t stay.So we made the call: The Guide will go away on June 6th. While the math in the short term makes this appear to be a bad business decision, it’s the long-term impact that makes the decision the correct one. And OpenDNS is playing the long game. We all are here. This experience is one of the On June 6th, the OpenDNS Guide will cease to exist. If OpenDNS users type a phrase that isn’t a website address into their browser address bar, they’ll get whatever experience the creators of their browser intended. A native, unaltered navigation experience. Ultimately, I feel great about the decision, guided by delivering — first and foremost — a fantastic user experience. And my hope is that this new OpenDNS experience will be met with satisfaction by our users, whose loyalty we are incredibly thankful for. Internally, we know this is the right call, and it allows us to focus all of our energy on building world-class DNS and security services.We CEO and Founder of OpenDNS. I play the long game.Longer form commentary on pushing packets at OpenDNS

Creative leadership is a specific skill, and a lot of experience design is providing creative leadership for designers, content creators and engineers.Here is a short list of the TED Talks I have found have had a great impact on my development as a creative leader.discovering the world bit by bit as founder of 5ThingsILearnedToday.com, and Director of User Experience Designing for Other People

Four months ago, I graduated from a code school that taught me the basics of Ruby and Ruby on Rails. A week later, I had two interviews. Two weeks following the interviews, I declined the first company’s offer and accepted an offer from an Wow… I love that video. You first need to put aside your fears; next, take the risk to pursue your dreams. Quitting a well-paying job and going into debt from the school’s tuition was a scary thought, but it wasn’t my biggest fear. My biggest fear was the idea of going through it all and coming out on the other end with no job. What if I fail? What if I don’t get a job? And, if that did happen, why would I do that to my family? How humiliated will I be, knowing I didn’t make it? Perhaps I should give up on these dreams.That right there is the negative thinking that poisons your dreams and aspirations. You need to cut that shit out now. You also need to cut out the A few days before class started, I connected with Coleman McCormick, the Vice President of Spatial Networks. I started by sending him a message on LinkedIn to introduce myself. Within that message, I mentioned that I was preparing to attend a code school and wanted to come work for him and his team when I graduated. He replied to my message, thanking me for reaching out and inviting me to meet up for lunch. I highlight that part because it’s a key component of this post. I haven’t even started school, and I already have an invitation to meet up for lunch with the VP of the company I desire to work for. It’s actually pretty easy to network effectively:While I was in school, Coleman posted To me, this was a cheat sheet. I held in my possession the things a potential future employer was looking for in a junior developer. So, I went to work by re-reading the guide and following the suggestions daily because I definitely wanted to become an engineer and most certainly wanted to work for Spatial Networks.You need to approach your coding with a product-oriented mindset. What value do you bring your company if you fix a bug at the cost of diminishing the user experience? You need to place yourself in your customer’s shoes and ask if what you’re doing adds value to the product. If the answer is no, try again.So you want a job in the tech industry but don’t have LinkedIn, Twitter, or your own personal site? Tisk tisk. Failing to have a LinkedIn or Twitter account in today’s job market is as suspicious as having unexplained gaps in your work history. I have spoken with many hiring managers who indicated they have thrown out resumes that don’t list LinkedIn or Twitter.By building your online presence, you’re giving potential employers a view of your aptitude, domain knowledge, and core competency in your field.Bottom line: don’t be an asshole. Aside from that, Monster.com says these are the Being a subject matter expert (SME) in every programming language or tool is unrealistic. However, your willingness to learn a new language for the company you’re applying to might get you the job over the senior level java programmer who applied, yet isn’t open to learning new things to secure the job. Below is a list of several technologies you Mac:Windows:Linux:Learn:Rehearse:Master:Discover:Front-End Frameworks:Communities:Job Search:Sidestep your fear for a moment, take a calculated risk, become smart on the essentials, and work on creating your best self. It won’t be easy, but if you’re determined, motivated, and work hard, I guarantee you’ll be interviewing for a job you desire. I’m more than happy I made the choice. I hope you’ll feel the same as I do soon. God speed.Software Engineer 

A lot was said about Apple Music recently. I, myself Even after complete interface overhaul Apple will be on the spot, where its main competitor, Spotify, was a year ago. Now it’s leaving the spot behind. Let me just mention services like Spotify Now and Running. The Swedish company wants to change the way people discover music, for better. That said, it’s obvious that simple UI redesign and minor improvements are not enough for Apple Music. The question is — what more?In the beginning, we need to define the product purpose, the core idea how a user can benefit from using it. Define the core loop. I wrote it before. For me, using music streaming service is a constant exploration, never-ending process of discovery. When you discover something great, you don’t want to lose it, so you save it. And when this great track is safe, saved in your library, you can listen to it as many times as you want. It’s the core loop of the perfect (for me!) music streaming service.Users continuously explore music library searching for a new music that suits their tastes. It should be easy. No matter how do they do this: by following their friends activity, listening to a radio, browsing curated playlists or checking their recommendations.Saving a song to user library should be the easiest thing in the world. One click, no drop-down menus, etc. A simple message, quick action. The same applies to playlists. Just drag a song to create a new playlist.The player, a core part of the service. It’s the best thing in Apple Music, but it could be improved when it comes to UI. It should be the easiest thing to pause music, start playing or check your queue.Apple Music needs improvements on two main levels. It needs new functionalities and user interface tweaks.In his book “Don’t make me think” Steve Krug wrote, that clear and consistent navigation is the most important thing when it comes to user experience design.The most important change that needs to be done is an improvement of the navigation. Possible choices need to be communicated in a clear manner. Naming should be easy to understand, and a user must always have the option to go back.I’m in love with the concept of personalisation. In All the services personalisation goes only as far as proposed playlists. In my opinion, extending personalisation options will be great from a user perspective. I’ve posted some Work-in-progress designs of Apple music/iTunes on Behance and I got some nice feedback.For example, some of my friends there loved dark UI version but there were many that appreciated light one. Why not give them a choice? And this concept can go even further.Some of them would like to have Top Hits lists on the first screen, some would prefer to see recommended music or their friends activity. It’s so easy, and can add so many value.Right now Apple Music is a very standard service. Yeah, they can have these super-duper algorithms that serve you music similar to your taste, but it’s so much 2010. From the company such as Apple, I’m demanding more.Think that you don’t need to craft your running playlist manually. You don’t even need to hope that Spotify will determine your tempo right. It’s all here. Apple has the data and the hardware to measure it.One of the most important components of my vision. I won’t dwell on the search field itself. One thing worth to mention is that it’s a “smart search”. So it’ll display results from your “Collection” as well as results from the service catalogue. That being said, I’d like to tell you more about the search results.I’ve noticed one thing when using Spotify, Apple Music or Tidal. I love when search results are well arranged. Sorted into logical groups. When results for songs are separated from albums etc. It helps me to scan through the results quickly. I have just one problem. It looks like everyone have a problem with pulling this concept off completely.The results are shown in a tiny(!) popup. There is no space for them to shine. I’ve decided to change this and designed more prominent experience.As you can see above search results occupied the most part of the app window. Now they’re readable and easy to scan through. Meanwhile the sidebar with main navigation and playlists is uncovered. Because of that you can just drag the song you found onto the desired playlist. Nice and easy.The player section gets a redesign. First of all it’s anchored to the bottom of the app window. Second — it got bigger, making itself easier to use. Every single function responsible for playback control is inside this one section.There are some new functionalities also. Now you can easily add a song to favourites or your collection or loop it.The fact that the player in current iTunes has a little functionality, bothered me. Because of that I decided to design a solution: by clicking on an artist name you can go to the artist page. With one click. The same goes to track or album name. I also decided to hide time values, showing only the progress bar. Seriously, when you them last time?iTunes has this nice concept of coloring every artist page in a different colour, putting artist photo on top. But it looks like designers at Apple don’t have the guts to pull it off.The whole view is designed vertically. You follow the path, learning some things meanwhile. If they interest you, you can stop. But you don’t get truckloads of unimportant (for you) info at the start.The Beats 1 radio is one of the most important selling points of Apple Music.It’s unique. It has great auditions, and great DJ’s. So it deserves a great interface to handle it.I’ve decided to go clean here. Just the current audition, short info about previous shows and the schedule for near future. Of corse you can just click on the schedule header and go to the dedicated page with the complete list of shows.But Beats 1 isn’t the only radio available. Below you have a list of the shows recommended for you. Or you can expand the view and browse through all of them or use search engine.The one functionality that is missing now is an option to check recently played tracks. There’s probably no way of checking what was played some time ago in the iTunes. I’ve fixed it by adding an option to preview recently played tracks in queue.The currently played track is displayed in the player section with the audition name next to it. You can go to the currently played artist page with one click. Nice!When you’re out there, exploring the awesome word of music you discover tasty bits.As you may noticed, I’ve decided to change the name of this section. “Collection” felt better. After all you’re not downloading them, just bookmarking. They’re not separated from the whole service catalogue.I’ve decided to go with two-levels vertical menu here. First, the main navigation panel, second the “selection panel”. The easiest and quickest way to search through your bookmarks. In the view below you have artists list here, but when you change the selection method you can get composers or albums.The artists/albums/etc list is visible all the time in this section of the app. When you choose desired artist, you’ll see the list of her/his tracks you saved. You can play one song, start a radio or go to the artist full profile.You can tell what you want, but for me Apple Music has no social features. Apple introduced Connect that was supposed to be next groundbreaking social feature. It turns out it’s just another Facebook fan page. Meanwhile, there are no options to share your music, playlists or discoveries with your friends or the whole community. That should also be changed.This is a very small improvement to make, but it’s very important. Right now saving a song to your collection of favourite songs is a pain in the ass. Saying whole playlist is even worse. Meanwhile, you could do it inBeside all that I wrote above, Apple Music (or rather iTunes) needs major UI improvements. iTunes was meant as a music/video player at the start. Then a store comes in, and now a streaming service. If you can click on something, than it has a contextual menu available also. Right click to get more options. The fact that the queue shows recently played tracks is also a nice addition.Last but not least I’ve redesigned and structured some other stuff. I’ve decided to show prevoiusly played tracks in the queue. I also made the design more consistent. I also decided to change the “Listen” section name to “Your Collection”. It felt more accurate.That pretty much sums up this part of the project. Hope you liked it. I encourage you to share your thoughts here or let get in touch with me via twitter. What’s to come? Next time we’ll touch social features and summarise desktop app redesign part of the project.Do you like my story?Senior Web Designer at GOG.com. Freelance product designer, art director and founder at Pixology. Music and typo lover. Gamer. Interaction / Product / User Experience / User Interface / Design

When talking about responsive web design most designers and developers immediately think of websites on smartphones, tablets and laptops. Once in awhile however, a client comes along who displays more than half of their traffic on large desktop screens.Thus, we cannot adapt from television layouts.One of the first layout decisions to take is how your website makes use of the given screen estate. There are generally two options how to deal with that in a responsive layout :I find that bit very hard to explain. Here is a little demonstration:When a website wants to offer a large-desktop experience it is recommended to employ a liquid layout in order to make use of the whole screen rather than including left and right page margins.When I started exploring layouts, it became clear very quickly that there is a lot of scope when it comes to width. Using some of that width for navigation could leave more height for content and the page itself. One responsive pattern seemed most appropriate:A good reason for the left-hand navigation lies in the responsiveness itself.Webpages can only grow in width to a certain length. Paragraphs get harder to read when the line-width becomes too long. Too much content next to each other makes a page look crowded and awkward to scroll, while adding more white space may make the layout look too sparse.However, as the width of the actual page stays almost the same compared to the contiguous breakpoint (laptop layout), only a few adaptations are needed to be made to make the content fit the screen.A large screen offers a lot of space for the layout and that space can be used for more functions, more details or more content at a glance. Besides making use of that extra space in this way we might want to scale the whole layout slightly. This can enhance the readability and provide the user with a stunning experience that fit’s the screen size and accommodates the larger viewing distance.A straightforward implementation is using an Designer and Co-Founder of Boana Design StudioDesign Studio for Software

The following work conversation may sound familiar to you:Sound familiar?Many lean startups conduct interviews to understand customer needs or evaluate their existing product. Then based on the interview data, they design or improve product features. However, sometimes, even when the execution is perfect, users still don’t convert.WHY?Because gathering good quality data from user interviews is not as easy as it seems.In this post, I will discuss three common mistakes in these user interviews. And my discussion is primarily in the context of The first common mistake is asking guide questions. In this context, interviewers will provide information in their questions which skews users’ answers.Here is one example. In an effort to evaluate how users make purchases on Amazon,In this interview, the interviewer missed the opportunity to learn how the user actually used Amazon. He directly guided the user to a specific feature. In reality, maybe the user browsed the Amazon home, clicked into the detail page and didn’t even notice the one-click-purchase button. Maybe some information on detail pages was really important for the user and he always spent a lot of time on it. When interviewers ask guided questions, they just won’t know these details.Instead, interviewers should ask open-ended questions. In the above example, a better question to ask is “Tell me how you buy [product name] from Amazon.com”. You will get a whole lot more information. And when users start talking, you shut up and listen.Open-ended questions, like “Tell me how you buy [product name] from Amazon”, are good. But users will likely tell how they A better question to ask is “Tell me how you Sometimes founders or entrepreneurs conduct user interviews themselves. When they hear what users need is actually consistent with what they have planned, they will get very excited. Then they cannot resist the urge to ask users “how about [feature name] that could do [function introduction]” in the hope to get more feedback from users. Users will make their comments. But unfortunately, these answers cannot be fully trusted becauseSave these questions. If you really want to understand how users would react, ask how they currently address this need or wait till you have a prototype. Interviewers will get more reliable information this way.Understanding user needs is the most important step for building a successful product. The key is to get your users telling you the right information. Don’t make any assumptions, don’t ask guide questions, keep your questions open and keep your talking to the minimal. The more you can encourage users to share their thoughts and especially their past experience, the higher quality your interview data will be.What are your tips for conducting good user interviews? I’d love to hear.If you like this post, don’t forget to recommend or Thanks for Product Manager, Life long learner

If you are an Internet of Things startup, you may have been told that you need an “experience designer” to help really make your product sing. This is true, but experience design is a lot bigger than you think.There’s been a lot of talk lately about putting all of your effort into the software, and that software is what creates the “experience”. Some people feel once you get your software right, you can throw some “industrial design” at the hardware to pretty it up, and the result will be revolutionary.This approach is not only a bad idea — it will guarantee failure.There’s no question that experience design is crucial, but in today’s market, it’s too narrowly defined and undervalued.So, how did we get here? In the late 1970s, personal computers became more popular and professions began to emerge that focused on human-computer interaction (HCI). People already understood the importance of design thinking — it had been applied to hardware products for decades — but with the emergence of Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs), many new fragmented roles and titles began to emerge. Interaction Designer (XD). User Interface (UI) Designer. User Experience (UX) Designer. Visual Designer. Product Designer. Digital Product Designer. Every step of the application design process had a specific title assigned to it.As new products emerged with GUIs as the main point of user interaction, industrial designers found that the process of design thinking could be applied to both hardware and software. Many industrial designers began to apply their skills to user interface and user interaction design. Simultaneously, hardware came to be viewed as secondary to these new digital interfaces and many people labeled industrial design as simply “making things look pretty.” This is not what industrial design is.Industrial design, the field I come from, began in the early 1900s, and was initially about bringing aesthetics and craft into consumer products to give companies a competitive edge. Since then, it’s evolved significantly, and is now the design process that connects products to users and their environment.Industrial design encompasses business opportunity assessment, market research, branding, strategy, experience design, aesthetic design, and design for manufacture. It also overlaps with user interface design, user interaction design, and information design.How do we judge the quality of industrial design? Usually, we look towards the Keeping Rams’ principles in mind, it’s easy to see that having “killer industrial design” means that a product solves a clear problem or unmet need AND does it in a way that creates a pleasing and unique experience. These are issues industrial designers have been tackling for decades, and in my opinion, it makes the case that industrial designers were doing experience design before the official title existed.Now, there is a new profession emerging called experience design. Since it’s evolving from professions focused on HCI, it’s being narrowly defined around the digital rather than the physical. I feel that’s shortsighted. We’re far past the time where we can think about a user’s “experience” as only existing in an app or on a webpage. We have enough titles to describe the various design roles that are software-focused. “Experience designer” needs to be reserved for something bigger.True experience design evaluates and ensures that there’s a consistent and excellent user experience from the very beginning of the sales funnel through setup and actual use. An experience designer is responsible for making sure that everything is cohesive, from the images used on the webpage to the materials chosen for the hardware.Certain companies are already doing this well. Yves Behar and his company As an industrial designer at A true experience designer has a rare skill set, especially because they have no bias towards hardware or software, but an understanding of both. In this way, an experience designer is like an orchestra conductor guiding all aspects of a product. A conductor isn’t a master of each instrument, but knows the precise way they should all come together. They can keep the tempo, keep any one musician from going out of step, and understand where best to emphasize one section over another. And much like having a gifted conductor at the helm, having a talented experience designer guide your project helps lead to a product experience that has the cohesiveness of a well-written symphony.Follow James Krause on Twitter: Smart home security for everyone. canary.is

Imagine an airline now has a way to board using a QR-code-like thing on your phone. (Ok, you don’t have to work too hard to imagine it, because practically every airline has a mobile app now.)Making that QR-code-like thing work for boarding took a lot of work. The airline had to potentially update its scanners, because the barcodes on paper boarding passes (which they’ve had for years) are a different format. They had to create the software on various models of phones to display the QR-code-like thing. They needed to integrate all of this into their massive reservation system that tracks all passengers traveling on all flights.For the most part, it works. Hold out your phone under the scanner and, boop-boop, you’re checked in and ready to get on the plane.Now, imagine sometimes a flight gets cancelled while you’re at the gate. (Ok, you don’t have to work too hard to imagine that either, because: airlines.)The gate agent now needs to re-book you onto a new flight using the re-booking module of the massive reservation system. First that gate agent needs to find your reservation.You know what would make that easy? Just scan the QR-code-like thing in and bring up the record. You know, make the boop-boop noise.Yet the re-booking module doesn’t read mobile boarding passes. It’s been planned, but hasn’t been important enough to work on.Breaking large efforts into small teams makes sense. However, it also creates silos of effort. The outcome is a disjointed user experience, such as what the gate agent experienced when trying to re-book your flight.Employing a service design approach helps feed information into the project prioritization process, to ensure a better experience. It gets the teams into the field to see how the experience fits together.A team watching the gate activity would quickly see that the mobile boarding passes create friction in the customer’s experience for activities beyond just checking in. The re-booking team could re-prioritize their efforts integrating reservation lookup with the mobile passes. The mobile team could make sure the text accompanying the QR-code-like thing has a nice fallback to find records easily.Service design helps teams get on the same page about the context of their work. It’s practices expand the user experience professional’s toolkit to bring new insights to the team and give them tools for prioritizing a better overall user experience.Thank you for encouraging my behavior! Founder of 

You might have used products that just get the job done. (Think Excel.) They compete with similar products on features, cost, and other mechanics. The problem is, these products become commodities and can lose their users to competition in a heartbeat.Meanwhile, there are standout products that are heralded as works of art. They inspire people and change lives, and consumers stick with these brands for a long time thanks to a glue called love. Most of us want to make amazing products and are looking for that Why do Apple and Nike stores continue to make money during retail recessions?What do the Jony Ive’s and Tom Gruber’s of the world know that we don’t?And when we hear that our products need to “delight” the user, what does “delight” really mean?Today on FemgineerTV we’re going to talk about the balance of science and art that goes into amazing design and discuss the building process behind products that delight users every single time.To help us out I’ve invited Pauly Ting, a user experience designer who has helped brands like Bloomingdale’s, Lexus, and American Express to reveal their purpose, express their personality, and deliver a complete and authentic user experience.Whether you’re building a product for a startup or a larger corporation, you’ll want to watch this episode to learn:After you’ve watched the video, let us know what your favorite part was in the blog comments below.The next episode of FemgineerTV airs in September. I’ll be hosting StyleSeat’s CEO  Co-Founder, Melody McCloskey. Foodie, yogini, founder of Step-by-step guide to bringing ideas to life!

In many ways I am one of General Assembly (GA)’s success stories. In February of 2014, I won a scholarship from Designers + Geeks that allowed me to quit my job and take GA’s 10-week User Experience Design immersive course (UXDi). I accepted a paid internship offer before my final course project began, and my internship turned into a well paid, full time job with a recognizable brand. GA knows that these are the kinds of results that draw students like me to their programs; recruiters for the immersive course often boast of job placement rates from 90%-98% within 3 months of completion.With similar design bootcamps on the rise, I get a lot of questions about what I learned at GA. Generally the questions fall into one of two camps: “Should I take the course?” and “Should I hire graduates from this course?” Now that I have reached my one-year anniversary as a working UX researcher and designer, I want to share my experiences in the hope of answering these questions. I’ll tackle the first question in this article and address the second in a sequel (edit: now available What potential students are really asking is something like, “Is this course worth $9,500?” “Can I become a UX designer without it?” and “Will I really get a job out of this?”What I wanted out of the UXDi course, and what GA was very good at delivering, was an intense and structured opportunity to learn design methodologies and terminology while building a portfolio. I would not have been able to create as compelling a portfolio, nor as quickly, if I had been teaching myself UX on my own. I probably could have put a portfolio together, but it would have taken much longer and been more frustrating. Whether that’s worth ~$10k is up to you!The day-to-day format of the course worked well for me. Mornings were comprised of lectures, interrupted every 45 minutes or so with a group activity to experiment with what we’d heard. Students had the afternoons free to apply the morning’s lecture topics to our current portfolio project.If you don’t hit any major roadblocks in your absorption of the material, you will have all the time you need in class to easily complete your work to a standard of sophistication good enough to present to others or even use in your portfolio. If you find a concept or design tool difficult to master (or you have an off-day and simply can’t focus for an afternoon because your brain is leaking out your ears), your progress can easily be derailed. I frequently worked through lunch and for an hour after class every day to make sure that I had the time I needed to finish course projects to my standards, and later, to work on my job search. I kept a blog detailing a lot of the early coursework here: After the class completes each portfolio project, students present their work for feedback and critique. My instructors coached students to tell a compelling story about the evolution of their designs and to stay open to feedback. This turned out to be great interview prep, at least for portfolio reviews. I also used these presentations as the basis of the case studies I put in my portfolio. By the end of the course, I felt well prepared to discuss my work with inquisitive strangers.GA’s greatest strength and weakness is its instructors. Mine served as endless fonts of feedback and guidance in design, job searching, and generally socializing my cohort in UX jargon. If you get along with your instructors and you are persistent about asking for help and feedback, you will do well. I have spoken with some graduates who felt that poor instruction made the course a complete waste of their money and time, leaving them under-trained and unprepared to find work.The single most important thing you can do to evaluate if the UXDi course is right for you is to research your potential instructors, and escape as soon as possible if you sign up for a course with instructors who aren’t meeting your needs. If you worry this may be happening to you, ask for a refund or request to defer your enrollment to another course.Your instructors should be industry veterans, and ideally they’ll have some prior experience in managing a team, teaching, mentorship, or other design leadership. Find their LinkedIn profiles and portfolio sites. If you are not sure what to look for in a design portfolio, ask a designer friend to evaluate their work. If you don’t have any designer friends yet, get out to UX events and make some! Searching for “user experience” on Meetup or Eventbrite will get you started. GA often asks instructors to attend recruiting events, and it can’t hurt to ask potential instructors to have coffee and chat to evaluate if you are a fit for each other.The most vital resource for successfully transitioning into a new career is a network of people who are willing to vouch for your skills by referring you for jobs. Unfortunately, GA was very poor at helping me develop a professional network. I hoped that GA would leverage its ties with startups and larger businesses in the area to introduce me to hiring managers. This did not happen. My cohort toured a couple prominent product companies and consultancies, and met a few of their designers. There were too many students per working designer at these visits to develop any useful connections or even get advice in small groups. I followed up with a few, but most of their teams were not hiring, or not hiring UXDi grads.GA did hire a career coach of sorts, an experienced designer who spoke to my cohort once a week in the second half of the course. While the coach was well intentioned and willing to share personal anecdotes, much of their advice was too tailored to their particular experience to be useful for much of the class. GA may not have given the coach any kind of structure or guidelines for what they were supposed to provide to the students.Several weeks after the course ended, GA held a job fair for my cohort. There was minimal instruction as to how to prepare and what to expect. In retrospect, I’d recommend bringing hard copies of your resume and business cards, and developing a 30-second pitch of your favorite project that highlights your role and what kind of work you want to do in the future. Some of my fellow candidates brought candy, which seemed popular with attendees.While my cohort was informed that over 100 businesses RSVP’d for our job fair, the businesses did not seem to be vetted for whether they were actually hiring. Some of the business representatives I spoke with definitely were not hiring for junior UX designers at that time. Many were not certain if they had a position open — or, if they did, what sort of skills that person should have. Several were really just looking for developers.While GA is careful not to guarantee job placement as part of their services, the professional development they do provide is very poor. I don’t know where their 90–98% figure comes from, but it certainly isn’t representative of my cohort. Some of my classmates simply didn’t want or need work for a while, but some really excellent candidates are still struggling to find jobs.My cohort took charge of our own professional development by regularly searching for design-related events and sharing them with each other on Basecamp or via email. We then took turns motivating each other to attend another 3-hour event on top of a grueling 8-hour day. We also regularly checked GA’s website for classes and workshops on relevant topics like visual design, mobile prototyping, and front-end development. As part of the immersive program, students are able to attend other GA offerings. GA’s program administrators did not communicate any scheduling information to UXDi students or instructors, despite repeated requests.GA’s failure to share their own professional development opportunities with their students speaks to their overall lack of organization. I was never certain which administrator to email with which question, and titles and administrators seemed to shift constantly. The staff is very kind and enthusiastic, but very young and somewhat inexperienced. I would like to see GA more aggressively develop the organization, attention to detail, process, and communication skills that are essential to administrative roles in education.My impression from speaking with more recent graduates is that GA has tried to fix some of these problems, especially vetting the job fair attendees. GA collected feedback regularly throughout my course, but I did not see my concerns addressed during my time there. I am not able to speak to how the program has evolved in response to student feedback, but you can contact current UXDi students easily by searching on LinkedIn or attending design-related events in the Bay Area.GA’s UXDi course is not a magic wand that will instantly transform you into a working designer in 10 weeks. It Still have some questions? Check out my follow-up: ux research  design 

This is my desert island user research question. My “marry”, in the “boff, marry, kill” game. It’s my comfort food, my security blanket. My ace in the hole. It’s what I’ll what I return to when a conversation gets awkward or lackluster. Because it’s tried and true.Hackneyed metaphors aside, I return to this particular query over and over again because it always leads to the best conversations. Why?Like any tool, you have to use this question properly to get good results. Being a good listener and asking follow-up questions are both incredibly important. You don’t want your user giving you a one line answer — understanding the last time they did “something” should absolutely be a dialog with significant back and forth. Push them to really dig deep about why they did or didn’t do certain things; don’t be afraid to make them think or ask why. A good user researcher is OK with making people question their own assumptions occasionally.So, if you ever are interviewing me, I hope you ask me this question. Because I’m pretty sure we’ll be able to have a great conversation. Anything else? No promises.-I care about designing to fit people (Handpicked business, marketing, design, and technology articles for entrepreneurs and startups. Also home to inspiring Medium stories in productivity, life lessons, creativity, writing tips, self improvement, and travel.

I’m sitting on the bus, as I do every morning, on my commute to work. I spend the most of my commute reading articles and newsletters, and today it is a “Pins you’ll love!” newsletter from Pinterest that caught my attention.There is an article called “Designing Search Result Pages” in the newsletter that I want to read. I click on it, and it sends me to this page:I want to read an article, and this is what I get, there is absolutely no reference to the article I clicked on! — I didn’t wanted to start pinterest and I didn’t wanted to download their app, but ok then, slightly aggravated I decide to move on after all the title of the article seemed promising, so I click the small and faint `stay in my browser` button.Ok now I’m on pinterest — I guess makes sense, since the newsletter was from pinterest, but I still just want to read that article. Now I’m just presented with a series of buttons that doesn’t help me. I don’t want to repin, I don’t want to comment and I don’t want to like it — I haven’t read the article yet!!!! — where is the ´read/view/show´ button?Now we’re getting somewhere… I hope — but still no article, just a lot of navigation and buttons? Well what if I scroll down? I might be able to find the article I want to read.This looks promising! I have a headline! Now i just have to scroll past the image and… Where did the article go? — everything tells me that I should have given up a long time ago, but I still want to read that article. After all I have spend a lot of time and clicks just to get this far — I start scrolling right to find a close button — I find one and click it and then this is what happens:Where is the damn article! — I give up!It turns out that as I scrolled to the right to find the close button on the popup, I also scrolled the article out of view — This is a site that is all about great user experience, and this is how they treat their users! Well I’ll let this article speak for it self.Well ok, I know I can’t just blame pinterest or UXmag.com, but the result of their combined horrible UX was that I gave up and didn’t read the article! And that is bad for both pinterest and UXmag.com.It’s bad for pinterest because I didn’t repin, like or comment the pin and it is bad for UXmag.com because I never got to read the article that one of their authors spend time writing and therefore I didn’t share it.Pinterest wants their users to use their app as much as possible and that is fine — But when they send me a newsletter with the title “Pins you’ll love!” I’ll properly want to view/read the content of those pins, so don’t make that so hard for me.UXmag.com — WTF? This is a site full of articles and other stuff about User Experience, and then you give me a site with the worst mobile user experience I have had for a while!So to all you UX, design and development people — Please think of your users when you are designing interfaces, flows and functions!Graphic designer and frontend  developer. Pushing pixels for the web at Aarhuskontoret

I work in user experience for web and mobile apps. User experience is the philosophy of designing products in short, careful iterations, listening carefully to the audience along the way. It’s a very practical approach really, one that mirrors how most of us tackle the projects life can throw at us. No one paints their entire house green in a blind frenzy, for example, without testing out a few shades or getting opinions from friends  family. Start small, in other words, and let feedback guide you as you go.The best of the modern software development world work in this manner, which is sometimes called a I’m enamored with this common-sense approach. So when I see an example of user experience that fails spectacularly, I set out to dissect why. Los Angeles traffic systems are one such example.Los Angeles’ roads were created in anything but an iterative, feedback-driven fashion. No residents or commuters were asked what their concerns were. There were hardly any small test projects. Instead, roads were designed by cold war-era traffic engineers isolated in ivory towers, resulting in bizarrely huge width requirements, vast setback distances, elaborate traffic signal systems, unhealthy amounts of contingency paranoia, and a complete disregard for non-auto traffic—that is, bicycles and “pedestrians,” which is engineer-speak for good old-fashioned The current culture of traffic engineering, unlike software development, is seemlingly unwilling to adopt a nimble iterative approach to improve LA’s streets. Projects happen all at once on a massive scale, usually after years of intellectual  administrative debate, and are mostly obsessed with moving as much traffic as quickly as possible. But there’s no reason in my mind why engineers couldn’t include in their focus improvements to street livability, made one intersection at a time.Let’s say there’s a particularly deadly intersection of local streets, each eight lanes wide (not uncommon here in LA) with traffic passing through at speeds routinely in excess of 50mph (also not uncommon). We’re talking T-bone and head-on crashes, and pedestrians being struck by rushed left-turners, a common type of traffic casualty.A common-sense UX solution would be to convert this one intersection into a safer roundabout as a test. This isn’t some crazy, whackadoo idea—we know that roundabouts have worked well for years, at least outside the US, because they literally eliminate fatal crashes What’s more, it’s common knowledge that traditional four-way signal intersections encourage drivers to take risks and speed—and who can blame them? By my own little study (using the Keeping further with the iterative “baby steps” user experience approach, traffic engineers could even implement an interim solution with temporary markers and paint to test the roundabout with lower cost and risk.But despite all these fine arguments for conversion, introducing roundabouts in LA is nearly impossible no matter how many lives doing so might save. And the reason is the That’s why roads in Los Angeles never get much safer or more livable. Even new streets continue to blindly use past ideas, regardless of their success or failure. I imagine LA’s traffic engineers as a software team that endlessly polishes a flawed version 1.0, never reaching version 2.0 because they’re too accustomed to their so-called “best practices” (an insipid, narcissistic term, if you ask me) to investigate other solutions, let alone ask real customers what they think. It’s a shame, because a lot depends on road design:walkability, bikeability, public transport compatibility, and overall quality of life.Good user experience is about openness, adaptability, and constant learning. Most of all, it’s about having the Ask yourself: are you an active listener?Or are you a traffic engineer?Writer, designer, founder of user experience  product design company YoonCo.

When I was a kid, I used to play a lot of pretend.I had a detective’s office, a spaceship, a courtroom, a school, a halfway house for distressed teens, a tax office, a secretly-trained assassins’ bureau, a chemistry lab, a movie production studio, a radio station, and a doctor’s office.Adults told me I had a great imagination, and my friends enjoyed playing with me. We left our 8-year-old bodies and became nurses, judges, detectives, and talk show hosts. In our play, we were made to feel, act, and speak differently from the way we would in our real lives.We went through great lengths to make everything as realistic as possible. The spaceship was perhaps our most distinguished effort. My friend, Hadas, and I worked tirelessly on it while my mother was at work. We used a roll of aluminium foil we had purchased with our pocket money and taped it to the inside walls of a closet which was used to store winter clothes.We printed the astronomy section of a CD-ROM encyclopedia and stored the pages inside a foil “computer” that spat out useful information about the planets on which we landed. Irresponsibly, we attached a desk lamp to the ceiling of my closet and sat in the terrible heat as we escaped into space and into our missions.Naively, we thought these objects and environments made our games real. We worked hard to collect all the necessary props: stamps, forms, hacked school boards, stationery, fax machines, and tape recorders. When we grew up and started using all these objects at our real, grown-up jobs, we realized it was nothing like we’d imagined it to be.This is because, during play, we set our own constraints and decided our own rules. In the “real world,” we had to do things that were useful for the job, not just the things that were interesting or enjoyable. Working in an office was nothing like playing, neither was being a teacher, and especially not doing taxes.So what does this have to do with user experience?Guessing how to design or build something for someone else is like pretending to be a nurse or a detective. When we mentally try to put ourselves in the shoes of our users, we are still us. We can try our best to imagine their experiences and needs, but we will always be free to choose the parameters we think apply to those experiences.During a recent research project, I was interviewing people about the process of deciding where to go out on weekends. We thought this would be really simple. After all, how much complexity can be involved in rounding up some friends to share a cocktail or a game of bowling?I was entirely unprepared for what I was going to hear. When I asked one woman how she plans get-togethers with family, she told me a story I could never have imagined myself. She lives in a community of a dozen, non-English-speaking family members, who rely on her to arrange how they spend their free time together. Planning family activities is one of her core roles in her family, she told me.Each outing is a project she proudly orchestrates: she finds a place that would be interesting to the children who are coming (depending on their age), she takes into account the financial situation of everyone attending, she phones in advance if the group is getting larger. She also keeps a vast mental and physical collection of future outing ideas. “I take great pride in knowing I’ve set up an enjoyable time for everyone who came,” she told me, “everyone in my family relies on me to organize our time together.”Her role in her family and community was tied to what I could only imagine as a frivolous activity, or an afterthought. Without speaking with her, I would continue to make product decisions based on that universe of assumptions. And I would be wrong.Our imagination is grounded in who we are. Sure, child play and business assumptions share only a thin thread of similarity. But imagination works all the same: it transports us from one corner of our mind to another. It cannot transport us into the minds of others with any accuracy we can rely on.The only way to truly understand the constraints, emotions, philosophies, and behaviors that guide our users is to get in touch with them: speak with them, observe them at work or play, and seek to find out how they’re different from us.Otherwise, with the best of intentions, we’re only pretending to design for others.I like design, people  the relationship in between. I do #UX things 

You dont create an app exclusively for users, you are hired or you are engaged to think about one goal: ROI. Unfortunately most professionals forget that because they are extremely focused (which is very wrong) only in If you dont know this restaurant, the Heart Attack GrillThe restaurant is a global success and offers everything with great quality, but how about the user experience, which is our theme?They refuse to put salad on hamburger, dont serve diet soda, dont have lemonade, they only accept cash, and not allow you to share food or drink with your friend. Its crazy to see what Jon Basso (Heart Attack founder) said about his own restaurant:But, my friends, the part is…. if you don’t finish your burger you have to get up and get spanked by one of the nurses. So, my question is, how can you accept that a bad service can generate a good UX enough to make this a super famous place? When you combine quality service with a custom service, you can manipulate the user experience in a unique way, becoming an attraction for those who go in first and count the days to get back there with other friends and fatten even more. We have many examples of grumpy characters who are loved as Eric from Dungeons  Dragons, Don Ramon and Doña Florinda from El Chavo del Ocho, Rafiki (the baboon at Lion King) and many, many others… Being mistreated is always bad, unless you identify something comical about it, which is the case of Hear Attack Grill. You dont go to Heart Attack to eat a big hamburger, you choose them because of the experience they give to you from the moment you get there until the time you leave.When you know your customer, you receive the mission to solve his problems to run a startup or launch a new product / service, his personal position cant disrupt the user experience of his product. It’s up to you to define what your audience and design the experience that will be created and manipulated, thus enables you to build interactions to create new experiences, and this is where your application can differentiate and become remarkable and desired by your user, after all you dont want to create a product to be commodity, you want to join the user’s life.Oh!! I almost forgot!A bonus video for you guys: Hi there! I’m from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This is a crazy initiative to start sharing ideas in another language. I apologize for my terrible english and thank you very much if you want to send me private notes with fixes and improvements. Thank you!Sexy Web Projects Specialist — 

When we examine accessibility through the lens of user experience, we see that accessibility is:A core value, not an item on a checklistA shared concern, not a delegated taskA creative challenge, not a challenge to creativityAn intrinsic quality, not a bolted-on fixAbout people, not technologyThe Manifesto for Accessible User Experience is an articulation of beliefs, derived from our understanding of the benefits of integrating efforts towards better accessibility and user experience, constraints we face in achieving these benefits, and actions we must take to address the constraints. The following sections articulate foundational principles that support the manifesto.Access to digital resources is an individual and societal imperative and a fundamental human rightDigital resources can reduce social and economic exclusion; without deliberate attention, they will increase exclusionAttention to accessibility can drive innovation; inattention fundamentally compromises quality and user experienceTherefore, we all reap benefits if we collectively commit to advancing accessibilityTruly advancing accessibility requires commitment and change, for people, processes, and technologiesPeople’s capabilities and preferences are unique and variable; environmental factors influence accessibility needsChange can be complex and challengingTherefore, universal accessibility must be a goal, not a targetFocus accessibility efforts on delivering quality user experiencesFoster a shared responsibility for accessibility on our teamsLearn from people with disabilities about their needs and preferencesContinuously build and share our accessibility knowledge and skillsThe idea of developing a “manifesto” as a rallying call and statement of intent was the theme of our UXPA 2014 workshop in London, UK. Following some intense and enthusiastic discussion amongst workshop attendees, we produced an early draft of the Manifesto for Accessible User Experience. We further refined the ideas following discussions at WebVisions Chicago and A11ycamp Toronto in September 2014. The input of participants at all of these events has been influential in shaping the manifesto as it currently stands, in particular the UXPA workshop attendees Chris Bailey, Graham Cook, Amber DeRosa, Dana Douglas, Yolanda González, Jack Holmes, Sarah Horton, Caroline Jarrett, David Sloan, Jennifer Sutton, Henny Swan and Léonie Watson.We recognize that the Manifesto must speak to us all to be effective. We will build on this “rough” version through your feedback and insights from applying its principles in UX strategy and design. Our aim is for the Manifesto to be a change agent that will inspire and support creation of accessible and pleasurable digital experiences.Please share your thoughts here, or through Twitter (@sloandr and @gradualclearing) or email (Working to build an Accessible User Experience community of practice — join us! David Sloan (

In my previous life, working  studying in architecture, I spent a good number of years on numerous design projects and briefs. These projects ranged from the theoretical and conceptual to the practical and tangible. Later, when I transitioned into UX design, I found myself working on design projects that were similar to that in architecture. The unifying similarity I found in both fields was that regardless of the end product, the same questions needed to be asked during the process.In architecture, for example, if I was designing a theatre, I would ask the following questions: What functionalities would the building need to perform? How many performers or audience members would the theatre have to accommodate? What type of events would be staged and where would they happen? How should the seating plans be laid out so that the audience would have the best view of the stage? What would be a pleasant experience for the audience?In contrast, in UX, when I am tasked with designing an experience for a digital product, I find myself asking the same questions but in a different context. For example, how will the product benefit the end-users? How large of a user base does this product have to scale to? What is considered as a good return on investment? Is that measurable in analytics?The underlying similarity in the scoping of architecture and digital product requirements is trying to figure out who your design is aiming to please and what it will take to achieve that goal.Architectural design is basically user experience design on a physical and spatial level, where space is just another medium and buildings and structures are the interfaces and frameworks that users can interact with. A building then is a tangible version of a mobile app.There are definitely crossovers between the two fields that I feel can be exploited. There are learnings and techniques from UX (a relatively new field of design) that could be used to disrupt how we think about architecture, one of the oldest and most traditional forms of design.The conceptual phases of digital product development and architecture are similar, however the methodology to arrive at the answer differs between the two disciplines.Architecture follows waterfall project management method, no matter how quick the design and build phase is. It is all about jumping through hoops to get to the next stage in order for the project to progress. From concept design to resource consent, to putting together construction drawings for building consent, to getting sign off from the engineers. It is about moving from one checkpoint to another.In the tech world, the project lifecycle may vary drastically and more companies are willing to abandon waterfall project management models and instead implement agile practices.The purpose of agile is to manage the design and build activities of a project in a highly flexible and interactive manner, usually by setting short delivery cycles (sprints) so the team can learn and iterate on their mistakes in each subsequent cycle through retrospective sessions and daily standup meetings.The aim is to get the minimal viable product shipped as quick as possible at the lowest project cost with feedback from the users to direct the roadmap of the product based on their needs.I’ve often wondered how agile as a technique can be applied in the architecture industry. It would essentially be like designing and building a house with only the most essential functionality.We are used to the concept of upsizing based on our growing need for space. If your house is too small, you either move to a bigger house or renovate your existing home by adding an extension. Though extensions often is not ideal because your house was not designed to be extended.Imagine, under an agile methodology, a house would be designed with a bedroom, bathroom and kitchen. The tenant would live in this house and over time, as the tenant changes, grows into a family, feedback will be given which could direct the type of spatial extension they require. The architect and the builders will then collaborate to figure out how to add these new spaces to meet the family’s needs.Putting aside urban planning requirements, building regulation and all the legal reasons why we must design buildings the way they are for a moment, we must ask the question about how planning of cities or towns will happen in the future? Could the building of future spaces be based on direct feedback? What if cities, towns and spaces were designed so that they could be scaled as needed based on feedback and growing demographics? Could we not then simply modify space quickly to respond to the demographic’s growing requirements?The underlying framework of architectural design then would be done with the concept that anything, buildings, public spaces etc can be scaled up as needed without having to destroy the foundation to start over. This would be how agile design would work in architecture.One similar concept in architecture is that of modular housing. This concept has has been around for a very long time, although it has not become a mainstream option for residential architecture. However, projects like the post earthquake In reality, adapting agile project management techniques in architecture may not be feasible, because of the rigid processes and regulations that are already in place within the building industry today.However, as the demand for affordable housing in urban regions increases, I believe that an agile approach to architecture could be the answer. A design framework that is not only sensitive to the users’ present needs but also takes into account the future changes, should be the norm in architecture and could be the solution that we need today.Based in New Zealand, UX/UI Lead at Sushmobile. 

OShe used the Bling search engine and soon found Úlfur’s Woolies. The perfect hoodie was on the start page! With a quick click she ordered the green hoodie, her address was filled in automatically and the money would simply be charged from her PreyPal account.Three easy, fast clicks!But when she later read the confirmation message the carrier pigeon brought, Leeloo understood that the shipping costs would be considerably higher than she had first noticed, and the final delivery date meant she actually wouldn’t get her green hoodie in time for her trip to her grandmother’s.WSo why is Leeloo sad?Our most common view of UX tends to be easily explained. A user wants to get from A to B. By making this a good experience the user will feel pleased, happy, best case scenario even excited all the way to the target. Thus we have succeeded.Because what a let-down it would be should the user feel doubt, frustration, confusion or surprise.Obviously, that’s what we are fighting. Stuff we call friction and barriers. Barriers that keep users from reaching the goal.Preferably the whole experience should be like a slip-n-slide, we enter at point A and glide swiftly to point B. The website should sweep us off our feet!But what really goes on in our brains when something is easy? What does the brain do when something is so easy it becomes intuitively simple?Have you ever used Amazon This turned out to be expensive, and administratively inconvenient for me; each book got its own receipt. When I realized what I was doing, 20 books and 20 receipts later, I turned it off.For Amazon this is of course incredible profitable. But since when did UX professionals become conversion consultants?What I want you to reflect on is what pact you feel you have made with users. We who work within UX say we wish the best for the users of any system we are working with. We even like to say we are creating a better world for people. I know that the driving force for working with UX is human-centric. I’m afraid many of us are failing that promise.When the primary focus is easy-flowing experiences we are in the danger zone of creating cheap-line articles that hide important information and do not at all lead to pleased users, only happy salespeople.Let me give you some examples of when disappointment arrives in the wash of simplifications:In Sweden we have the lovely Mathem.se for grocery shopping. Sometimes they give great deals like this one: 6 litres of milk for 70 kronor.An easy way to add 3 litres of milk to the basket is to click 3 times on the Buy-button. The website really is that fast and efficient, and for a regular visitor this becomes routine.In the case of the offer pictured above the picture is the same as always (with or without the deal), showcasing one (1) litre of milk. Since I use my eyes to process 70–80% of my cognitive input I click 3 times to get 3 litres of milk.But when I click this button 3 times I actually get 18 litres of milk delivered, since Mathem have been kind enough to pre-fill the input with 6.It feels fast and simple. My irritation only peaks at the point of delivery.When I was involved in redesigning national online health services in Sweden we looked at some really great services that we knew users appreciated — and we made them a lot easier to reach and interact with. The service “Ask a psychiatrist” didn’t stand a chance of handling all the questions that ensued. The result was an inferior experience when many had to wait longer for the responses.When I started my company the bank SEB had an exemplary form for becoming a customer. It took me 15 seconds to complete. Really swell. They never called me back and I never hired them. But the form was a piece of cake.Many of us in the field of UX have quoted Gerry McGovern’s story starring a HSBC mortgage form. It was simplified from 17 to 3 form fields and the number of finalized mortgages via the form rose by thousands of percent.However, we never hear about anyone asking how happy the people were with their loans. How many people incurred debt they could not handle or perhaps could have — based on their unique situation — gotten better terms or advice elsewhere?Where do we draw the line for how easy something should be? Is it okay to keep optimizing and making it easier for anyone to, let’s say, obtain high-interest loans via text messages? What happens when it all becomes too easy, if anyone can just press a button and get anything? Thoughtfulness disappears. We click. Worst-case someone gets into trouble. But that’s not what we wanted.We must not, and shall not, act like the salespeople who sold the same woman — a woman with a cognitive disability — no less than four different cell phone plans that she never used. That should be far from how easy we want to aim for.People are complex. A lot of stuff happens constantly in our lives. We are placed in front of an endless stream of decisions. Of course it’s nice when things are simple, and we do look for shortcuts, and for a chance to give the brain a rest. But we also have values and goals.The risk now is that digital services will continue down the same path as other industries during the 20th century. We package deals pleasantly and hide the information that could give us clues about the what’s going on behind the scenes; how it really works.In the UX industry we are all creators and contribute to the future we all share. The oil industry, the textile industry the food industry — they all endure copious criticism today. But of course most makers who have contributed to these industries have done so with the intent of working for the good of mankind, thought of themselves as moving in the right direction.The food industry guides us in the art of presenting products in a pretty package, making them captivating, regardless of the eventual suffering behind the products or any adverse impact they may have on our health. Feature a cartoon tiger, slap on “33% less sugar” and watch the profits grow.So when all websites begin to look the same, when we constantly optimize for eliminating obstacles, eliminating too much thought, what kind of world are we creating together?A world where I don’t stop to see if I’m on the right path.Because what is Leeloo’s goal, really? It’s not to buy a green hoodie. She is after the experience of showing her outfit to her grandmother. To redefine herself. To escape being Red Riding-Hood.If we allow ourselves to shut off the auto-pilot, what could we accomplish?We can give Leeloo more opportunities on the way to her goal for considering if she is on the right path. Of course we still need to ensure a satisfying experience, but we can not solely regard this as a straight shot to the goal.We add opportunities to think. Things that interrupt gently, highlighting things that will help her make more aware decisions. We give her more perceptible information and checkpoints.In Leeloo’s case, little wolves.A– But that’s not a consistent user experience?I’ll let you in on a secret: Good friction provides guidance. But you need to know what should stick out. Sometimes I ensure we add loading animations even though they — from a strict technical perspective — aren’t needed, when content could load instantly. I want to give users a clear signal that their effort is having effect. They get feedback on their input, and more time to think before being bombarded with a new pack of information. With a “visual obstacle” I show they have cleared one obstacle and are on their way to the next one.This is an obvious situation where you give people more time to think and reflect over their actions.People need a sense of achievement. It IS liberating to clear obstacles. THAT is an experience. You know who else adds obstacles to create a better experience? Game designers.In the end I had to watch an instruction video to receive a password! The password was given to me letter by letter, in 2 minute intervals in a talking-head movie explaining my responsibilities as a customer. I could have given up any time but I persevered. I wanted what they were offering. To say the least, the people at You don’t want to catch everyone, contrary to what many who design registration forms seem to think. To succeed you must understand who your customers and stakeholders are and how you can help them. That’s actually somewhat the point of a business plan. When you try to catch everyone you increase the likelihood of catching those who will cost you time and money. Words like refund, frustration, irritation and support organization can become too dominating in your everyday vocabulary.To succeed you must also have a clear idea of where your loyalty lies.And before you say “with the user”, I want to assert that this is also too narrow a view.Your loyalty lies with the user as well the organization and the goal or circumstances. You need to help everyone see the value of Leeloo having her goal fulfilled.When we hide that which helps the user think we can under certain conditions make more money but we also set the foundation for future disappointment. That is not a relationship based on mutual interests. It is not in line with my promise as a professional: to work for the good of the user giving her time to consider the offer in context with her values and goal.Only when we show respect for the real goal, and for the user’s right to reach her target, can we add friction that helps her make a decision with a higher level of awareness of the consequences. Only when we see the value of not only removing, but also adding friction, can we as UX professionals say we are contributing to a better world.Only then can we live happily ever after.Freelance consultant, speaker and coach working out of Stockholm, SE. More than 20 years of experience in human-centric digital design.  Co-host of 

Right from being a toddler to becoming a giant juggernaut, E-commerce has come a long way and is here to stay for a long long time. Presently the rise of mobile and e-commerce shopping trend has been a breeding multi-billion-dollar industry and with a growth potential upto 50-folds. According to Definitely it is a shocking revelation how brick-and-mortar retailers have been replaced by online stores. The larger credit for the success of e-commerce goes to the advancement of technology which has made our lives so simple. The choice of having our items delivered wherever we want by simple clicking of a few buttons on our mobile/tablets and to not leave the comfort and the warmth of our home, trudging ourselves through varied temperatures and dealing with the long queues at payment  trial room mayhem often found at large shopping centers is surely a bliss.But with the need of cutting-edge and Neoteric innovation, there are few things which are for a lookout in improving the design. Lets have a look at some of them!A proper User Interface design decides if the customer will be impressed by it and its products, creating a value proposition on the website or app for the eCommerce merchants. A properly designed app or website keeps the customer engaged and also helps the company create a brand affinity, network and also improves on cross-selling. Here are some of the features which can enhance the experience of a user.Most of the times the description added is not enough and customers end up buying something irrelevant.Also when a customer downloads an app a promised discount-coupon is provided. What if they are provided with a coupon but could never find a place to apply it?So, along with these coupons, user must be provided with a convenient way to apply them.Personalization is one of the methodological approaches that should be undertaken by every online marketer. Let us cite you an example, a man logs into your website/app in search of a sneaker and searches or clicks through a few of them and leaves the site. On the next visit the search results page displays the top three previously viewed items personalized for him. This ensures a high conversion rate as well as boosts better customer satisfaction and builds long-term relationship with the customer.User experience design can directly impact revenues and if done right can really create a long lasting value.Agree or disagree? We would love to know. Let us know your thoughts here or tweet to us Thank you for reading. For receiving more updates from our team, you can follow us on LetsAlign is a design driven development company that builds awesome mobile, cloud  web applications. 

In March 2015 I took the ten week UXDI course in London. Here’s what I’ve learned.From March until May 2015 I took General Assembly’s ten week User Experience Design Immersive program in London. Before taking the course I’ve worked as a (mostly) self-taught UI Designer in a small Digital Agency based in Switzerland. After the course I returned to Switzerland and continue to work in the same agency. I’m now trying to apply what I learned and slowly shift towards being a full-time UXer.These are the top-five things I learned during the course.At GA we had to present every project we did in front of the class. It ranged from short 3 minute to more thorough 20 minute presentations. There is one simple reason for (UX) Designers to do this: YOU played a major part in the design process, YOU know why the design is how it is, therefore YOU should present it to the client. Or as Mike Monteiro puts it:This quote hit me hard. I’ve never presented my designs before. It was always someone else. When feedback came I complained. I blamed the client or the one that presented it. But ultimately it was my fault.Creating great User Experiences is a Team Sport. A great way to achieve this is the In Agile environments there is no place for Rockstar-Designers that try to solve problems on their own and come up with “the perfect design”. Rockstars don’t share — neither their ideas nor the spotlight. This is poison to a collaborative environment. Be collaborative and be open to new ideas. Which brings me to my next point.When faced with a problem I quickly have ideas on how to solve it. This is good and how it’s supposed to be. But what’s bad about it is that I used to stick to them. At GA I learned to not get too attached to my ideas. In a fast-paced and highly iterative world you want to get some distance from your ideas. Because things change. Quickly. If you’re married to your idea you start defending your design, even if testing proved that it’s probably not the best solution. And clearly it’s not about what Treat your idea as an assumption: “I think this problem could be solved by doing X” — instead of “Doing X will solve the problem”. And then validate this assumption by testing it. If the assumption was wrong then that’s fine: Learn from it and adjust whatever needs to be adjusted. Then validate again.I often hear people saying: “I can’t show this to anyone — it’s not finished yet”. Before GA I would’ve said: “Ok, take your time to finish it” Now I say: “Doesn’t matter”. Whether you’re about to test a paper prototype with a user or show your client some wireframes: It’s all about communicating the idea. And if it does that then it’s good enough to show it to anyone. Why spend time polishing something to perfection when what you’re looking for is feedback? That’s wasted time. Because feedback is going to change it anyway. I’d much rather spend time gathering feedback and adjusting my design than trying to polish something that I know is most likely going to change anyway.Note: This may not necessarily apply to Visual Design. When doing Visual Design you might want to take some time to polish certain elements and then show it to someone — because small details can have a huge impact. But don’t overdo it. We all know that perfect is the enemy of good.Clients often say they know their users. They make assumptions on who they are, how they use their app and what their problems are. It’s your job as a UX-Designer to do the research and show them how it really is. And then expose them to your research. It’s your magic weapon. You can argue for hours with a CTO if what he built is actually usable or not. Or you can just go out, observe some people using it, film it, and then show him what you found. Or even better: Let them be part of a testing session.Show your client what real people think. Show them what their needs and problems are. And then design something that addresses those needs and problems. Because at end of the day, this is what UX is all about: Building something that adds value to people’s lives. You can’t do that without talking to them.That’s it! It was an intense course and I learned a lot in those ten weeks. Way more than I could pack in a blogpost. But these five things definitely stuck with me the most.Feel free to hit me up on Twitter Interaction Designer with a passion for Lean UX. General Assembly Alumni | on Twitter a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

I sat down with Amrita Chandra, an People today no longer think of marketing as what a company puts out through advertising channels. They form an impression of a product or a company based on any experience or any information that leaves them with a feeling about the product. Marketing is no longer confined to the marketing department — it’s very much intertwined with user experience, product design and customer service. People can form an opinion of you from everything they see and touch — from your packaging to customer support, what they see your employees tweet, what they hear friends say about your company. All these things arent controlled by the marketing department.On that note, this summer I was lucky to have an hour with Gail Goodman, CEO of Constant Contact. Their company sells solutions to very small businesses, and from the minute I walked into their office lobby, I could see that the company walked the talk. They showcased employees that went out of the way to help customers, the receptionist was warm and friendly, and Gail herself was so down to earth. That left me with an impression that went so much further than anything Id read on their website.We had to take a ferry to get to the Inn, and it was a bit of a wait, something which was not in their control. The only place to eat was a small chip van and we had no idea when we were going to cross. We were waiting near our car, and this man came over and introduced himself as the Inn driver. He had a cooler filled with cold drinks, granola bars and fresh fruit for guests who were waiting to board the ferry. I thought this small detail was an amazing example of how they thought of their guests as family members coming to their home. That feeling stayed with me throughout — every chair we sat on, every bite we ate, everyone we talked to exemplified what the inn stood for. It’s an experience I can’t stop taking about.People appreciate great experiences, and so I think startups and small companies that don’t have big barriers between themselves and their customers are perfectly positioned to out-know, out-teach, out-inspire, out-hack, out-solve and out-love their way into the hearts and minds of people.Elena Yunusov | Head Marketer at Communicable | Senior editor with BetaKit | Toronto Maker Faire co-organizer | Coffee, blue, comedians.

• Side A has an outside locked groove so the record ends in an infinite loop.Jack White really understood what Vinyl lovers don’t just listen to music, they turn it into an experience. They love it when they have to touch their music when they take the record out of its sleeve. They enjoy the artwork that has the size of a small painting. They put the needle in the groove and appreciate the cracky, analogue sound that comes with vinyl. Much like a concert it consists of a number of rituals and symbols that lets them experience music in a more special way.Jack White’s innovations create an ultra experience for vinyl lovers. The whole ritual becomes even more special and less automated. It breaks the routine and it becomes a discovery. Now the listener has to think where he puts the needle and how he plays the record. He can look at the record spinning from different angles and see different things. Or he can let it play for a day in the infinite groove. If Not anyone can pull this off. If Madonna would have released The Jack White brand story is about the quest for the perfect sound. And in order to find that sound, you need to know a lot about guitars and be really creative with melodies and chords. This quest is what gives purpose to the Jack White brand. This quest is what people identify with. They want to hear what Jack discovered during his latest studio session. They want to be part of it. They want to own a piece of it.Jack White doesn’t follow musical trends like Madonna does. He follows his own path and that’s what makes him so authentic. It takes passion and commitment. Two things.First of all,Secondly, the video is a smart way of spending his marketing budget. If you compare the production value of the record to the video, you understand where White put his money. Instead of focusing on the My name is Louis Ingelaere, happily married to Collection of inspiring articles about Digital Design, User Experiences and Service Design. With examples from the online and offline world.

In 2008, as a young designer, Disabato set out to create a chapbook of evergreen design principles for user interaction and experience. That chapbook became Disabato: I separate the book into two sections. “Cadence” covers the rhythms we get into when we’re immersed in productive work with technology; “Slang” discusses the visual and interactional languages of an interface. Both cadence and slang are always in some sort of relationship with one another, affecting our habits and expectations.Disabato: It is a little unusual, yeah? But I think it’s important enough to consider, and customer service and marketing seem to get neglected enough that I chose to put them first.I believe someone’s experience involves every parameter of the product, from the marketing to the customer service to the product itself. I work with a lot of companies that put together amazing products, but they haven’t updated their marketing sites since the Crimean War. That isn’t a good way to speak to prospective customers; at best, it doesn’t make for a good first impression.More broadly, user experience is a question of empathy. You can have an empathetic interface, but that should also be supported by an empathetic company.Disabato: I knew I always wanted to be an interaction designer, but it was hard breaking into the field. At the time, there weren’t many junior-level UX jobs in Chicago, so I was working as a front-end developer. I had an Normally, writing a professional text is not how you break into a field; by the time you’re writing a book, you’ve probably done some sort of important work that warrants it. So I’m well aware that I went out of order, as it were. But It began very slowly as an overall statement of purpose that I distributed as a 16-page chapbook to close friends. A few of them liked it and told me to keep pursuing the ideas in it, so then I created the outline for The second edition accounts for touch screens and mobile more strongly; in 2008, we didn’t have a really mature grammar around discussing that sort of interaction model. Now we do.For the second edition, I spent relatively little time going over older research, instead choosing to focus on all of the conversations that have recently taken place around touch screens, flat design, and “post-PC” computing. That allowed me to figure out what to edit, and how to add to it.Disabato: Multi-touch makes it so you effectively have ten “cursors” on your hands, which goes against the notion of having a single-cursor mouse. In removing the mouse as a pointing device, you’re also effectively removing a middleman between your body and the device you’re controlling, but there are tradeoffs.Tap targets need to be larger and less precise, with more spacing between them. You need fewer elements on the screen, which can force a lot of difficult design decisions. You don’t have the luxury of Currently, touch devices have a lot less horsepower than the laptops and desktops we use. We have to be really careful about the way we use memory and processing speed; the operating systems we write for are capable of killing our applications in the background. So not only are you paring back the things you see on a screen, but you are also limiting the computational scope of the software. This might change in the distant future, but I don’t envision it happening within the next few generations of hardware. We all need to get used to dealing with less powerful machines.Disabato: Pretty often. Academic literature loves thinking about notional future interfaces, so I end up reading a fair amount in ACM journals, arXiv, that sort of thing. But I’m skeptical of those things if they don’t actually ship to real customers.Instead, I love thinking about the possibilities of our technology today. Between mobile and smart, “Internet of Things”–y devices, I don’t think there’s been a better time to consider the untapped, immediate possibilities of what technology can afford for us.Every couple of months, I see a new interaction model that makes me rethink the possibilities of mobile devices. Gestural systems, like the ones that I’m also fascinated by the proliferation of cheap devices that can talk to all of these devices. Disabato: Yeah, that’s a great way of framing it. I think that also strips away some of the interface considerations of a given product and makes us think of what it does for the user. If you get the overall objectives and tone of something right early on, then it makes it easier to define its scope and actually develop it later.I think people turn to any software not because it looks cool or has really insane functionality, but because it helps them solve a need in their lives. Perhaps looking cool or being professional-grade is what’s needed to accomplish that, but it sort of comes indirectly.As that applies to sensor-connected devices, I believe in the future almost everything is going to be connected to each other in some way. My phone is currently streaming to speakers across the room; my projector talks to iTunes on my server and serves up video. Even my to-do list has a sophisticated, cross-platform syncing system that is firing constantly—and that’s effectively just a text file.Real-world sensing is only one facet of the broader issue, which is that all of the technology in our lives is getting more intelligent. As these things become more thoroughly woven into our lives, I think giving them personality—as BERG does with BASAAP and Disabato: It does, yeah. And people are paying attention to the service (and the personality!) of products quite a bit now.It isn’t enough to just make something that is usable; those were the table stakes in this industry a decade ago. A good product should be the reflection of its creators’ personality, and it should hopefully make us feel happier while still providing whatever intrinsic value it’s supposed to.Disabato: That’s a really good question. I think good advertising should strike a balance between saying what a product is, what it does, and how it feels. A lot of advertising gets only one of those right; two, if it’s lucky. It is not an easy problem to solve, but you run the risk of being misleading if you don’t hit the mark on all three fronts.Put a little differently, I believe you can have “lifestyle branding” without also glossing over what the product does. If you lean too much on your personality, it might be because your product doesn’t have any utility to back up your claims.I also see a lot of products using language that has almost lost all meaning in the industry: “simple,” “fun,” “easy to use.” Of course you want your product to be simple, fun, and easy to use. What parts of the product make it that way?Disabato: I’m actually fascinated by some of those made-for-TV products; they have such effective marketing! They get you so excited about the thing.And they work to kill off every objection you might have about buying a product, as quickly as possible. Not necessary in your kitchen? Look how much time it saves you! Too expensive? Here’s ten other things we’re adding on for free.I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about marketing pages lately, for a service my consultancy has put together. Almost all of the best ones try to come up with common questions their prospective customers have, and they work to kill off every problem you may have with buying something. To bring this back to technology, I don’t know how you can design such an effective campaign without showing the utility – just as Ron Popeil did in his commercials in the sixties and seventies, but maybe in the service of something a little less frivolous (and less prone to breakage) than the Slap Chop.Disabato: The short answer: Yes, I worry about that all the time.The long answer: Everybody has a certain degree of familiarity with a product, and that can be affected by their experience with the platform it’s on. For example, people are probably much more fluent with new iOS apps if they’ve already owned an iPhone for a year, but novices to iPhones (and touch screens in general) will be less so.Over time, these users—and, in fact, all users—will become more acclimated to dealing with the resident slang of an iOS platform, and they will be more likely to experiment. This means you will have to spend less time hand-holding the person through complicated sets of instructions or demonstrations, and you will be able to design more unfamiliar interactions that push the possibilities of the medium.I think a lot of good design work comes from knowing how comfortable people are going to be with your product, and knowing what you can do to account for anything unusual you might implement.big into cyborgs  architecture Why things are the way they are.

Now that I have some experience as a working researcher and designer, I get a lot of questions about my UX training at General Assembly. Questions usually fall into one of two camps. My previous post addressed the prospective students who ask me if they should take the course, and in this one I will try to answer hiring managers who ask me whether they should hire UXDi graduates. This question is difficult for me to answer, in part because I’m not sure what’s being asked. I see a lot of disparity between what designers say they hire for and what job postings advertise that companies want.The other night I was at a networking event where a designer proclaimed that his favorite coworkers, the most interesting designers with the best problem-solving skills, switched to design from a totally unrelated career. Many designers, myself firmly included, love the variety of experience that UX professionals bring to their work. A diverse pool of UX talent fosters better problem solving skills for a wider variety of problems, and more empathy for a wider scope of humanity than just tech workers in San Francisco. It’s also really fun to hear about all the weird jobs your coworkers used to have.This is where I think GA can be valuable to hiring managers. Bootcamps like UXDi offer a route into UX that can be, compared to 2- and 4-year university programs, time- and cost-effective. These options are very appealing to talented junior-designers-in-the-making who may have had one or several careers (or degrees) already, but need some formal training and a resume line to help them get in the door to a design interview.In job postings, however, I usually see expectations of formal and often graduate-level education in a handful of fields (product or industrial design, HCI, cognitive psychology, anthropology) that have become associated with UX. This comes with a preoccupation with degree pedigree, which inserts itself into the candidate evaluation process before quality of portfolio work.As a UXDi student, I was often advised to ignore half of the requirements on any given job posting. These requirements constitute what one researcher called an “HR fantasy list” rather than a realistic depiction of the skills needed to succeed in the role. I once overheard another designer advise a group of female UXDi students to “just apply as if you are a white man and the only rules that apply to you are the ones you like.” I also give this advice. Bring confidence and assertiveness to your job search! Plus, there just aren’t a lot of junior designer positions out there, and you have to apply to My theory is that when hiring managers ask me about my experience with GA, both their questions and the above discrepancy are rooted in a larger uncertainty as to what kind of training reliably creates good designers: “What can we look for in resumes or portfolios that can reduce the work and uncertainty of recruiting?” I can’t answer that, but I can try to address more specific questions like, “How do GA graduates compare to other entry-level candidates?” “What skills does this person actually have, and how much work is it going to be to train this person?” and “Can this person really see a design project through to launch?”My cohort graduated with a variety of skill levels that reflected the expertise we brought in with us and the work we put into the course. Many of were changing careers and already had the soft skills necessary to succeed in UX. While we were new to design in varying degrees, we weren’t new to having a job, meeting deadlines, and getting along with people. Some of my classmates felt their technical skills needed more work in one area of design or another, and some of us felt ready to jump into a full-time role.Personally, as a research-heavy candidate with no tech background, I felt most comfortable taking an internship to spruce up my visual and interaction design skills. I had Omnigraffle down, but I wanted more practice with Axure and creating icons in Illustrator and Photoshop. I was familiar with Basecamp but not with JIRA, which has a steep learning curve.My biggest challenge wasn’t precisely design-related; I needed time to learn key Agile terminology, which stand-ups to attend, and which sprint planning meetings to attend remotely from my desk while finishing a project for another team. I am still trying to figure out how to integrate UX into Agile. Luckily, I have grown good relationships with my product managers and engineers, giving me the sense that we’re all in this together. Many GA graduates come into the program with tech backgrounds, but for those who don’t, be prepared to help them acclimatize to your development process and learn new tools.In retrospect, I probably could have jumped into a full-time role and done well, but my 3-month internship did wonders for my process, soft skills, and confidence.In any hiring situation, it’s wise to enter with a solid idea of a few specific projects you’d like your new hire to work on, and from those projects draw up a list of skills that would make or break a UXer in that role. Look at your existing team, whether you have a large design team or you’re hiring your first designer, and determine where the current choke points are in getting work out the door. I notice that many hiring managers will say they are looking for a visual-UX-font-end unicorn with 8 years of experience and two HCI degrees, but what the team actually Hiring managers should determine what skills they need for the work at hand, and hire someone who has those skills. You can evaluate GA graduates’ skills in the same way you evaluate any other candidate: by looking at their portfolio of work, and comparing their problem solving abilities to the problems you have in your organization.I can recommend one shortcut for taking a baseline on UXDi grads’ abilities as a whole, or comparing two GA-educated candidates. The second UXDi project in San Francisco has remained the same for at least a year: wireframe a shopping and checkout flow for a school uniform retailer named True Spirit. All GA students from the past 12 months or so have done the same project with, as far as I can tell, the same brief, making it a useful point of comparison. You’ll find a ton of those projects on Google.While I have some reservations about what GA offers students, it could be a fantastic resource for hiring managers. As I outlined in my ux research  design 

Let me get this out of the way: And yet.The user experience community, now 15 years on from Jesse James Garrett’s “And here we are, again, sounding self-important, glib, and just a little bit smug.It’s not.Do our wireframes remove blastomas from brains without causing more damage than necessary? Can our user flows bypass clogged arteries and give grandfathers a few more memorable years with their grandchildren? Our information architectures and content models, how do they feed the world?They don’t.We can create wireframes that design the right interface for a brain surgeon to use during the operation, saving cognitive load for the far more vital thinking skills of knowing how much healthy tissue needs to come with the tumor.We can build user flows so that we can find the pain points surgeons and nurses have during heart surgery, providing them with better tools, more convenient UIs, and an overall safer, more effective experience that gives that grandfather the years his grandkids deserve.We can create information architectures and content models to make the logistics and management of food aid simpler, more intuitive, and smarter, so that a famine-stricken refugee camp never has to worry about the process of delivering the right food at the right time.That’s all we can do. Help.We don’t cure anyone. We don’t save anyone. All we do is make it easier for people to be cured and saved (and even preventing disasters from happening.)And that’s where Ian’s facetiousness falls flat. UX is hard. But it’s hard because people are hard. The same way surgery is hard, mind you.Arguably, the things that makes a brain surgeon great are the same things that make a UX designer (of any stripe) great. Research. Practice. Never losing the hunger to learn, from others, from new findings, from mistakes.And waking up today wanting to be better than you were yesterday.In that vein, Ian’s “When someone comes and says to me “I really want to get into the UX world,” I ask:See, learning user experience is beyond book learning. It’s a willingness to embrace a sort of You’re not a hero. You’re just this person whose job it is to look after the interests of those who desperately need someone vested in their goals and values. The brain surgeon who really needs to be taking that tumor out instead of futzing with a UI showing MRI scans. The heart surgery team that would rather have a system that follows their flow instead of fighting it. The aid worker who is exhausted from 16 hour days and just needs to make sure the USAID drop is coming tomorrow and not delivering rations that aren’t halal That’s all we are. People who put ourselves in the shoes of those who need us to be there speaking for them. We make it sound heroic, but in reality we’re just practitioners, not miracle workers.You want to join the user experience world? Do what Ian says. But first, check your ego. You’ll just find it gets in the way, anyway.Artisanal posts from a Seattle user experience designer. Co-host of A series of posts throughout May 2014

Vale começar o post dizendo que não sou especialista em Scrum, tampouco gerente de projetos. Longe disso. Mas nos últimos meses tenho participado de projetos que usam “Scrum de verdade” e aos poucos fui anotando alguns aprendizados que podem ser úteis para outros profissionais de User Experience que estejam embarcando nas metodologias ágeis.O ponto é que apesar de muitos gerentes de projeto serem treinados em Scrum e possuírem certificação no assunto, muitas vezes nesse processo de certificação eles não aprenderam a liderar um time que possui profissionais de UX em sua formação. Convenhamos, User Experience é uma área relativamente nova e não são todos os times de design e desenvolvimento que possuem um especialista no assunto.Um dos últimos projetos em que participei possuía Quando digo “Scrum de verdade” me refiro a projetos livres da herança cultural do waterfall. Já participei de alguns projetos que tentam ser ágeis, mas acabam usando uma metodologia híbrida entre ágil e cascata que só faz piorar as coisas, deixando o time incerto sobre qual processo seguir. Uma outra vantagem das metodologias ágeis é que elas permitem que uma área tenha mais impacto sobre o trabalho da outra, evitando decisões tomadas puramente por questões técnicas, ou puramente por questões estéticas.Abaixo alguns aprendizados desse processo, do ponto de vista do UX Designer:Quando puder compartilho alguns documentos e fotos desses projetos aqui com vocês. Não apenas o resultado final está ficando incrível, como também o “durante” foi muito mais divertido e muito menos solitário do que em projetos de cronograma em cascata. No fim do dia, a sensação de que muito mais coisa está sendo produzida em menos tempo ajuda a deixar todos os membros do time motivados e com fôlego suficiente para seguir adiante.Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

During the last year I’ve been using a Pebble Smartwatch on a daily basis. It worked great as a timepiece, notification gadget, fitness tracker, calendar and much more. At Below I’ve arranged the 6 points of contact of the user with the smartwatch interface. It is sorted by frequency of use from top to bottom.User interacts with a smartwatch on these 6 levels in order of the time spent:1. WatchfacesLet’s dive into each of these UI components.Watchfaces can be customized for a variety of needs. Whether you are traveling, working, piloting a plane or hiking. Each case is unique and, besides time, they might present other relevant information on watchface, like weather conditions, the next waypoint in a route, upcoming calendar events etc.With a fully custom watchface I could have a specific view of 2–3 things I care about in my life and it is just remarkable. For example, I could see the last message from my loved one, or the online sales number of our latest product, or the current location of my kid on the way home from school.While wearing my Pebble each day I wanted to see upcoming events from my calendar and we’ve developed a custom watchface My Calendar just for this. Then it becomes my watchface of choice, much more convenient than having your calendar on a phone.Another good example of a custom watchface is a Surfline — Watch Face for Android Wear. It shows tide times, surf height, wind speed and direction straight to your timepiece. No distraction. Quick access to the up-to-date data with just one glance.Try to identify the right user need and the possibility of it being on a watchface. Do you have something really meaningful that could be constantly on a user’s wrist and provide a real value? If so think about the custom watchface if you are targeting Pebble or Android Wear users.This does not work for Apple Watch yet. Perhaps there will be a way to make a custom watchface complications, but it will be later. Now look more in the direction of using Notifications and Glances.It is a remarkable channel of delivering small and timely updates to the user. We all use them to get customers back to our apps and increase engagement. Notifications become a new platform for interaction.The current technological shift is happening towards the highly personalized, data-driven Notifications are the second most frequent UI element that users see on their wrists. With great power comes great responsibility, so you should use that channel very carefully. The first thing that user does after wearing a smartwatch is reviewing her app permissions for notifications, denying all disturbing and annoying apps. Be careful with this!In order to use Glances on Apple Watch or Timeline on Pebble Time user should take explicit actions. Usually, they are one click away from the watchface main screen. It is harder than just raising your wrist and looking at watchface or scanning a last notification.For a user Glances are like windows to a more engaging experience with a watchapp. Having such a window your app should present the timely and relevant information within it’s frame in just one tap. Keep in mind that users are scrolling through all these open windows one by one and it means that user attention is limited and shared between other Glances and Pins. Hence, your precious Glance or a Timeline pin would be one of the many on a shared shelve.Pebble Timeline is a brand new interface like the UI from Pebble that will be released along with the launch of the new Pebble Time smartwatch. It can be used to display user-specific data, events, notifications and reminders in both the past and the future. It is easily accessible with Up/Down buttons which ensure high visibility for the data it displays.It shouldn’t be said that your app will do better if you make a Glance for Apple Watch and integrate your information as a Timeline pin on Pebble Time where appropriate.Wasn’t it cool to have a separate hardware button for your app?On the Pebble smartwatch, for example, the Quick Launch feature offers a way for a user to set up a long click for the up/down buttons to launch selected apps. It is a convenient way to have two apps on a shortcut. I personally set up my Pebble buttons for My Calendar and Misfit apps.Try to communicate this possibility to the user and probably you will have your app bound to the smartwatch hardware button.What could be suitable for Pebble doesn’t work with Apple Watch. The following is what Apple As we can see, Apple preserves this nice, quick access control to yourself. Neither developers nor users are allowed to use the side button in any other way than to get to the Friends screen. Good for Apple ☺This category includes the companion watchapps of a smartphone app. Such smartwatch apps usually act as a remote control. Some examples are Music Control, Camera Control, GoPro Remote, Runkeeper, SNOCRU and other activity trackers.It works like this. Once you have started a running exercise with Runkeeper and started an activity in the app it automatically pushes the Runkeeper display on top of everything on your smartwatch. Because smartphone app knows that you have a connected smartwatch, it could be used as an external display for your activity while on the run.It is a quite useful feature for the user and yet another channel for extending smartphone user experience to the smartwatch. Do you have something similar within your new app? Use it.No, it is not a mistake. All other apps that are not on Glances, not on Quick Launch buttons and not in Notification are really hard to find, access and use. Sure technically it is possible to find an app and launch it, but you usually don’t do this. It is easier to use a smartphone for every task that needs more than 3–4 clicks or taps from the user.In any case, you will build a smartwatch app for the user because it is a unified packaging to deliver a new smartwatch experience to the user. But don’t forget that in order to be used by the user you should spend more time integrating your core value into watchface, notifications and glances/timelines, riding quick launch buttons or launching as an external display for the main smartphone app.There is just not enough space for solid gesture commands on smartwatches. Sure, single taps and swipes work well, but it is not as simple as on smartphone due to the size of the screen. Thus, developers should look to an alternative input, like voice.Voice commands and voice text input could be the primary input method for a smartwatch in the near future. It is quite limited now due to a lack of platform support. Only Android Wear provides some level of voice commands integration through Google Now to the third party applications on a smartwatch. Neither Apple nor Pebble have a similar feature in place, but it is known that they are working on corresponding SDKs for developers to use a built-in microphone. It means we could expect access to the programmatic control of voice commands and microphone later this year.So you have to think and design for the voice input and voice commands as soon as a platform will allow it to other developers. Google already opened such a Another possible frontier for the alternative output mehtod is the Apple Taptic Engine. Which enables an app to produce a different sense of haptic feedback on your wrist. Now it could give a unique flavor and feeling of you personalized smartwatch app communication. It is still not yet available for developers, will have to wait at least till the end of the year ☹Previously I mentioned data-driven approach to notifications to avoid overwhelming and annoying users. I just want to emphasize this point one more time. As developers, we should utilize any possible ways of learning about users’ behavior and teach our machines to send data-driven push notifications just in time when users need them and their attention is sharp. I mean — let machines Smartwatch is a scaled down, wearable and “always on” personal computing device. It interacts using the small screen, vibrations, and sounds. It’s constantly on a user’s wrist and could influence her behavior immediately.In such a small screen and overcrowded notification space, we have to evaluate any possibility of using machine learning algorithms to find the right timing and content for each user. They are not equal.With the growing computing power of smartwatch and continuous miniaturization of electronic component base voice commands and voice inputs will be a predominant user interface. So start design for voice input and output today.I’m so excited to see how we will use and interact with a smartwatch in 2–3 years!Product Director/Founder at Stanfy, agile software development for mobile and wearables. I’m interested in technologies — Wearables, Robotics, VR, Smart ThingsAs an expert and leader in the mobile design industry, we are happy to share our notes, tips and how-tos on design and UX.

Research, in any of it’s various forms, should play a role in each step of your product building process. Talking to your users is the simplest way to bring certainty and focus to the solutions you are developing, since they are the people you are ultimately building for. The patterns, insights and learnings that can be gained through research will lead you to building a product that gets used and loved.The trick is to know what role user research plays, which methods of research to utilize, and how it benefits your team each step along the way.When you approach a new problem, project, feature, function, etc. you have a lot more unknowns than you have knows. The role of user research is to reduce the unknowns you have each step in the process which will allow your team increased focus on creating the best possible solution.Unknowns that you’ll face throughout your process can be high-level — Running research continuously throughout your process will make those unknowns become fewer and more specific with each step.Before you start designing any solution, you need to know why the problem is happening. Understanding who is experiencing the problem, what their needs and motivations, and in what context it happens will be the foundation for any solution you create.This benefits your whole team by uncovering insights for the problem you are trying to solve and establishes the conditions for a successful solution:Research methods to best help you understand users and their problems:With a good understanding of the problem, you can begin to explore potential solutions. Whether you have sketches on paper, wireframes, or clickable prototypes, getting them in-front of users will allow to validate if the solutions you are designing are on the right track or not. The goal is to understand why certain functionality and design elements would contribute to (or prevent) someone from using the solution. That information will allow you to refine and iterate on the product before releasing it.Research methods to help you best validate solutions you have designed:Now that you have validated your solution, the team can move forward developing it. By investing time into user research up to this point, you can commit to code with confidence that any large issues have been identified and addressed, so there won’t likely be any feedback or issues that requires a large investment of dev time and resources.With your solution put live (whether in beta or publicly), you can now see how it performs in the wild. The goal is to uncover any remaining functional issues that impact the users’ experience.Research methods that best help you test your solution’s usability:The three phases of research are not absolute and linear every time. Your team needs to remain flexible and react to what you learn along the way, as sometimes you will learn something while testing your prototype that will make you reassess your understanding of the high-level problem.This structure should give you a general sense of how to employ user research at each stage in your product design process. From here you can begin to tailor it to the needs of your specific problem, project or product.A beginners guide to running User Research for design teams.

Every new iPhone/iOS arrives with new capabilities. Many are under-the-hood and don’t directly affect the user experience. This time around, however, we got 3D Touch, giving developers and designers a new interaction to utilize.I’m excited about the possibilities of 3D Touch, I’d like to share one way I think that 3D Touch, and Quick Actions in particular, can be put to good use.Quick Actions present the possibility to provide context for the App Badge number. The number ‘2’ above the mlist app means that I received two notifications … but what were those notifications? I could always go look in the notifications view to figure out, but typically once a notifications goes to that view, it’s lost and gone forever.This is where Quick Actions come into play. A single press on the app icon reveals the meaning of the notifications - two unread messages currently in the mlist inbox. Tapping takes you directly into the message.You now know what the number represents, and can take a direct action based upon what you know.You’ll see this feature (along with many other improvements) available in the next version of Thanks for reading!Noah Tovares

My quest for a formula to calculate User Experience started with a little experiment to see if I could calculate cognitive loading time of a design. When talking about loading speed of digital products the focus always seem to be the digital loading time, but we sometimes forget that trying to understand an interface also requires time — cognitive loading time. The more I thought and researched this problem, the more I discovered that loading time — digital and cognitive — might just be a small part of a bigger and more important question: The problem with User Experience is that it is — just like Psychology — quite vague. Many people, including myself, talk about improving User Experience and what factors might affect it, but it seems impossible to quantify or calculate UX (I will call it UX from now since I will be using this term a lot in this post).Of course, there are ways to discover how your product is experienced by asking your users with a questionnaire or interview, but the results are qualitative. There’s nothing wrong with qualitative data or users telling you that your product experience sucks or is brilliant, but you can’t trust people’s opinions. What people tell you is just a version of the truth and always influenced by external factors. Cognitive biases prevent users from accurately reporting their own experiences with your product.Wouldn’t it be awesome if we could figure out a formula to calculate the success of the UX of your product? Not saying you should stop talking to your users, but having a formula with hard data would make the UX field less fuzzy. The thought alone of creating this magic formula to calculate the success of a design and product made me glow in the dark, hence I gave it try!The first step we have to take is breaking down the UX into smaller measurable chunks. What facets influence the UX of a product? This goes beyond designing an understandable interface for your product, there are many factors at play that influence your users.Digital loading time is easy to measure. We can all agree that loading time has a huge effect on the UX of a digital product. If software is slow users become cranky, and if the speed is too slow they may abandon your product altogether. The digital speed of your product can be broken down even further into smaller pieces: internet speed, device speed, server speed and product code speed. For our formula I will use the letter v for velocity.The speed of the internet connection is which is out of our hands, but has a huge impact on how your product is experienced. Something to consider here is whether the user thinks any slow speed issue is your products fault or a weak internet signal. You can help frame the user’s thoughts in a number of ways, including choosing the right loading animation.Your users device speed is out of your hands, although you could choose to make your application only available for newer devices; for instance, to avoid users with older slower devices that would experience a slow product. Of course, this raises the question of whether it’s better to offer no product than a slow product.The speed of your server is something that I (as a designer) don’t know much about, but my co-founder  buddy The last part of digital loading speed is the loading speed of the product code. Having worked with The cognitive loading speed of the product is where this all started. I find it a particularly interesting subject because it is such an important determinant in the realisation of a great user experience. It is an area where design meets psychology, where flat digital pixels become more than the sum of its part because the human brain is able to translate it to a meaningful interface.For the ones asking themselves “The cognitive load theory was first mentioned by Interface complexity plays a huge factor in cognitive load. If your product has a complex interface with many elements then it has a higher cognitive load, meaning it takes longer for the user to comprehend, resulting in a less happy user. When a user has the feeling they don’t understand what they see a feeling of discomfort rises and self-esteem plummets. I think we can all agree that’s not a great user experience. That’s why creating simple interfaces is not just a hipster designer thing, it is essential to make your users feel they are in control. This results in a happy confident user able to make quick decisions.Although complexity of an interface is the key determinant in the cognitive loading speed of an interface, two other factors play a big role in counterbalancing this factor; n, the times a user has successfully used your product in the past and dx, the general digital experience level a user has with digital products like yours. When a product has a complex interface, but the user has previous experience with this or similar products, the cognitive load can still be low. If there is a lot of previous experience with the product, the complexity might not even matter. This can result in the fact that a product with a complex interface and experienced users can be more effective than redesigning a product to use a simple interface that sets all legacy user understanding back to zero.Having read the above we can calculate the total speed of the product by adding the digital speed and the cognitive speed.Great we now determined what the total speed of the product is. But, having a fast product is only a small part of a great user experience. This is where calculating UX gets tricky and I may need your collective brain to help me out.As I mentioned in a The most important thing for a user to use a particular piece of software is that they believe there is a benefit in using it. This can be acquiring information, social interaction, (digital) goods or just good old fun.A factor that can’t be ignored since we are dealing with human behavior here is status. Status can be a strong force that drives people to take action. If a product has the power to increase someone’s social status then it boosts the intrinsic motivation of your users.The part where most designers focus when trying to improve the UX of a product is the interaction (I have a hard time admitting this, but the esthetics (e) of a product are only a small part of a great UX. Designers — including myself — like to overestimate the influence of their designs on the complete UX and overall success of a product. As you probably realise by reading this article, there are so many factors determining a successful UX, that creating a great UX is a team sport, not something owned by just the designer.Last but not least is communication. By communication I mean everything from the copy used in your interface to the emails from customer support. The way you communicate with users should be human, kind and understanding, with a dash of humor. Every human being likes to be treated nicely, your product is your voice, so use it wisely and kindly.If you are still with me, congratulations for getting this far and thank you! As you have read above we now have all the building blocks that play a part in a great UX. If I missed anything — which I inevitably did — please let me know on Twitter @WdeB. So, is this the moment we have all been waiting for? Can we create one magic formula out of the above to calculate the User Experience of a digital product? Let’s give it a try. Mathematicians and physicists, please look the other way.Have we now cracked the UX code? Can we now stop talking to our users and just calculate this magic number to see if our UX is brilliant? No, absolutely not. First, the purpose of the exercise was to uncover the various factors that play a role in User Experience. Second, too many of the factors mentioned above are almost impossible to quantify, which makes the formula difficult to use.The bottom line is that a great UX is not just a beautiful interface, it is part of a bigger equation in which not just the designer is responsible but everyone in the company, from the backend engineer to customer support. Maybe this formula can help us determine where the strong points are in a product and in which areas it has to improve. But as I mentioned in an earlier blog post, purpose is the key to a great UX. Loading speed, communication, and aesthetics can all be improved fairly easy, but purpose, that’s the core of your product.I would love to hear what you think of this little thought experiment. If you have any additions for the formula or if you have any other feedback, please let me know on If you want to learn more about User Experience, please Special shout out to Psychologist turned Designer • Co-founder 

The idea of going to a hackathon intimidated me. To my uninitiated mind, a hackathon was a place where computer science pros stayed up all night, chugging caffeinated energy drinks while slamming away on their mechanical keyboards. Then came pitching time when the idea and product you worked on all night would be judged in front of everybody.That was still my impression in the early morning of Saturday 9/20, when I found myself on a plane headed to San Francisco from Los Angeles, to join my fellow Not knowing exactly what an API Our brainstorming session (and after several iterations throughout the event… up till the very last hour) resulted in:While the market research team read up on Google Scholar and PubMed, and the programming team worked on implementing the APIs, we designers created:We started with identifying our consumer users. From our research, we found that low income minorities made up the most of diabetic patients who also had depression. To stay focused, we specified income range, age range, and ethnicity to create 3 user personas.It was very helpful to put a face on each persona, along with detailed stories pertaining to their medical, social conditions and familiarity with technology. By the end of the day, we all knew exactly who “Marqus” was, and he would always be there as we designed our user experience.For the first 12 hours, using Starting from a blank canvas, as always, was the most difficult, until the first rectangle was drawn. After that, I went through several iterations, presented to the team, and revised some more — it was a continuously evolving process. But we had to put a stop at one point to move onto the next step. (OK, the venue closed early and kicked us out.)We didn’t have time to come up with a proper style guide, so we just went straight to recreating the wireframes in Adobe Illustrator to fine tune elements and utilize color swatches. We also replaced all The bulk of the work was split among the team as the end drew near. I focused on the master Illustrator file, while others worked on creating art assets (logo, colored icons, avatars, etc.) or exporting completed art boards to hand off to our front-end developers and the pitch team. Thanks to this workflow, we were able to put together a presentation and squeezed in a small demo in time for our pitch session.Not a single element of the user interface was designed without careful consideration of the experience. Most notably was the decision to bring tasks to the home screen, instead of leaving them accessible on a task list residing on the 2nd or 3rd screen.Diabetic patients need to take their blood sugar multiple times a day before each meal, so it was essential that this specific task appeared at app launch. Whenever possible, input screens for frequent tasks like this appeared immediately on top of the main screen to reduce navigational steps and maintain context for the older patients. Additionally, to minimize tedium, only 3 tasks would show up on the main screen at one time, chosen by importance and at random. (See previous mockup screens.)We won several I learned a great deal in the short 36 hours as the design lead for the team. Not only did I gain new perspectives on the hackathon culture, I also gained confidence in working with others towards actualizing a product. Here are some specific lessons:I have usually relished in the complete experience of front-end development and design, but I had great team members who were good at back-end programming and front-end coding. This event allowed me to focus solely on the design.If you are still intimidated by hackathons and think you don’t have enough experience to contribute, And for me? I’ve finally come to terms that I Product designer for healthcare and science. Also medical illustrator. Former preclinical scientist. Science nerd, tech geek, animal lover  slick deals sucker.

Usability testing doesn’t have to be complicated. There are dozens of options for a design team that wants to remotely test their solutions. To prove that, we’ve redesigned We ran remote usability tests because they’re fast and affordable. All of these tests were unmoderated, which means the users ran them in the comfort of their own homes. While this gives us less control, it provides for more natural results. Because their reactions were recorded, we encouraged them to think out loud.It’s vital to understand that there is no single magic approach. There are a wide selection of tactics ranging from usability lab studies to simple email surveys, and they all have their time and place. We went with a remote usability test because it strikes a nice balance between speed, accuracy, and cost.In this article we’ll explain why qualitative research matters, explain the insights, and show how they were built into the new design.When it comes to qualitative analysis, you can’t just ask users to talk about their experiences.As Jakob Nielsen, Partner at the Nielsen Norman Group, The correct approach is watching what users do and then asking them the bare minimum Distinct patterns emerged in the videos of user interactions with the Yelp website. Unsurprisingly, we learned that the search bar was one of the most essential and easy-to-use. Of course, this makes sense because Yelp is essentially a business search engine with some added social features. However, other features weren’t as intuitive, as you’ll see below.All five test participants relied heavily on the search bar, even for tasks that could easily be completed by browsing through the categories instead (like finding a nice restaurant or bar without being given any specific criteria). In fact, four out of the five participants went straight to the search bar to find a restaurant. Only one user started browsing through the categories, and she quickly found them “overwhelming” and ended up falling back on the search bar instead.It’s important to mention that in our test instructions, we asked users to “find” a restaurant, not to “search for” a restaurant, because we wanted to observe how they would naturally complete this task without biasing them toward a specific function.Interestingly, when the users were given specific parameters (like the budget, ambiance, and type of restaurant, or the name of an individual business) they almost always ignored everything on the homepage except for the search bar. In our redesign, we made sure that the search bar was the most visually prominent feature.In one task, we asked the two users without Yelp accounts to find an interesting event in their area this weekend. We wanted to learn whether they would use the events tab at the top of the page.Surprisingly enough, nobody used the Because holding events is an important part of Yelp’s business, our redesign would pull the events section out from the sidebar and make it part of the primary scroll.We were curious to see how users would choose to save locations for later reference. In Yelp, there are two ways to do this: users with existing accounts can either Of the three users who were given this task:The two users who used bookmarks It would be nice to allow users to have an easier and more intuitive method of saving businesses to return to later, so we added a one-click save feature in the redesign. This new feature lets you save a business straight from the results page without diving deeper.All five users were given a task to find a specific business and find out if it was open at a certain time. They all successfully completed this task, and rated the task as ‘very easy’. As mentioned previously, all five used the search bar to accomplish this task.Since searching for a specific business is working so well, we decided that the functionality didn’t need any changing.When asked to find a restaurant with a certain ambiance, none of the five users attempted to use the search bar. Instead, three This brought up two insights:All five users were asked to find a restaurant for a group of 15, three of the five participants used the At another point, While filters are important, we learned that they could be greatly improved. To dig deeper, we decided to to run a For the redesign, we decided that we would categorize filter categories in groups of four based on how users prioritized them. For example, we learned that “Open Now” and “Accepts Credit Cards” were some of the most important filters, but it can take several clicks to access them.When users were searching for the restaurant with specific parameters, one of the requirements was to find a restaurant within a $20/person budget. Two of the five users were confused by whether their $20 restaurant budget would fall into the $, $$, or $$$ category. One user stated that she didn’t know what the symbols meant, and another clicked the wrong category. The other three correctly chose the $$ category.The definition of the symbols does not display when users select filters; it only displays when the user navigates to a particular restaurant’s page. Since price expectations are highly subjective, it was unclear to users which category they should choose.In the redesign, we solved this by placing the exact values in parentheses next to the symbols. This is especially helpful as you move between categories, since $$ has different meaning if you’re choosing a mechanic or burger joint.Once it was time to design, we followed an approach based on the last few steps of the We created a wireframe to incorporate most of the design changes, then added some interactions and animations to turn it into a low-fidelity prototype. Once the animations were smoothed out, we added detail for a high-fidelity prototype.What users say and what users do should serve as checks and balances during user testing. While you don’t need to necessarily be present during the test, an audiovisual recording is mandatory, otherwise you might miss out on the context of actions. When you combine qualitative analysis with quantitative analysis , you’ll get an even clearer idea of Webdesigner Depot is one of the most popular blogs about web design trends, tutorials and much more. Its run by Walter Apai, a web designer from Vancouver.

In his keynote at this year’s Typically the responsibility for UX sits within the design function of an organisation but Paul explains why this is fundamentally flawed. In most cases, a designers main focus is on the user interface design. However, UX is about meeting the needs of connected customers, it is When customers engage in your product, they start a journey which will encompass many different touch points often across multiple platforms. If UX is limited to an interface, we overlook opportunities which can transform, enhance and disrupt the way users use our products.Good user experience considers the whole customer journey and relies on the dilution of business silo’s, it involves different departments working together to make the experience for their customers seamless, cohesive and most of all enjoyable.Paul provides the attendees with a couple of examples or organisations which have done just that.The first being He also mentioned Therefore, the company invested energy and thought into different parts of the organisation i.e. how the products are packaged, delivered even going as far as ensuring that customers bank statements didn’t mention the company name.These are both great examples of user experience which may not have ever been considered within the traditional design / UX phase of the project — this is because they involved multiple departments and transformational structure change within the organisation.This type of UX involves creative thinking from all levels of the business, not just the design team, and who is the best placed to bring disciplines together? You’ve guessed it, the project manager!Paul suggests the following tools and techniques are a good place to start:These activities will help you think beyond the screen, identify gaps and start fixing customer’s real problems. What are you waiting for?Digital Project Manager  Certified Scrum Master 

Apps is our way of opening up Tictail for other developers to build features on. We recognise that we alone could never fulfill all the requirements each and every unique store in the e-commerce world would have. With the help of the developer community we have a better chance of satisfying more store owners, while also giving app builders the opportunity to earn extra money on the side, or even build businesses around Tictail.I spent a big part of my time in the Tictail Apps project with building the tools that third party developers use today to build their apps. We put a lot of effort into making the app building process as simple and exciting as it could possibly be, so I’m proud to talk about some of the things that we created during the project.We divide our apps into two categories, Native and External Apps. The External app category is for those who already have a running service and want to integrate it with Tictail. An External app is mostly a connection between a Tictail account and an account on another service, and the app is used outside of the Tictail dashboard. Native apps are on the other hand embedded right into the dashboard, and can be experienced just the same way as our other features.Most developers who build a Native app will have to start out from scratch, so we wanted to focus on this process to make developers delighted to start working on their new project. To lower the barriers to entry, we needed to remove many of the inconveniences and intimidating aspects that are usually related to app development.One of the first things we started out with was simplifying user interface design and development. We created the By default, Bootstrap 3 comes with a lot of useful CSS classes and jQuery plugins for building well structured and consistently designed websites. We extended this with important features that we felt were missing in building great web apps. This includes, among other things, custom styled form input elements, searchable select boxes, lightboxes for displaying full size images, and even a complete WYSIWYG editor for writing well formatted content. All of these features are activated by the developer by simply applying a class to the appropriate element in the HTML code, without requiring any extra JavaScript to be written. This lets the developer specify the components they want while the UIKit takes care of the functionality and styles of them, leaving the developer time to work on the things that are unique for their app.As an example, a feature in the UIKit that we spent a considerable amount of time polishing is form validation — something that is usually a hassle to build as a developer and that tends to irritate the user when implemented poorly. With the UIKit, all you have to do is to specify the input requirements directly in your HTML code, and all the rest is handled by us to create a beautiful, validated web form.We know that not all developers have a keen eye for design, but that shouldn’t hinder them from building a great looking app. The UIKit is there to reduce the amount of custom CSS a developer has to write to make their app beautiful. It also allows us to create a consistent user experience across all the different apps, so a user won’t be confused when navigating between them.We value design highly at Tictail and we only publish a developer’s app once it has reached a quality we are happy with. The UIKit helps us guide developers to build apps that hold up to our standards, and I think it goes a long way in creating enjoyable experiences, both for the developers using it and for the end users of their apps.Another pain point in app development that we wanted to address was making sure that user authentication is completely transparent. Our API authentication is based on OAuth 2.0, but the developer doesn’t actually have to know anything about the protocol to build an app.To bridge together the Tictail dashboard and a Native app, we provide a small JavaScript library called TT.js. This allows us to handle all of the user authentication within our Tictail dashboard code, and only pass down the access token that Native apps use to speak with our API. We run through the OAuth 2.0 Implicit Grant Flow in the background without bothering the developer with the implementation details.Even with the access token directly handed to the developer, we wanted to take the abstraction further and also handle all of the API communication inside TT.js. We provide helper methods that automatically include the access token in the appropriate header in all API requests. Here’s an example that demonstrates the complete authentication flow for an app:Because all the user authentication is handled on our part, you as a developer can write an entire Tictail app that doesn’t require a single line of backend code. If you wish, you could just upload your files to a static file host, such as Amazon S3, and have a fully functional app. In fact, this is how the Even if most of the current Tictail apps have some sort of backend for doing more interesting things, it is still important that you can start hacking on an app in nothing else but a single These are two of the many things that we worked on to make Tictail an attractive platform to build apps on as a developer, and so far we’ve had the honor to publish apps to our app store from talented developers all over the world. In case you are interested in building a Tictail app, head on over to our If you want to look more into the details of our TT.js library, I’m happy to announce it is now open-sourced and Making stuff on the web, nowadays at 

For 100-plus years, car ownership has been largely about demonstrating mastery over machines. But the machines are about to flip that relationship on its head. We still talk about driving a car. But judging from the floor of the Geneva Motor Show, the role of the human in the car is increasingly about the in-car experience and less about conquering the machine.IDEO’s Transportation and Mobility group went to Geneva to gain insights and inspiration about the state of an industry on the cusp of significant change. Reflecting on our time there, a few things stood out as major shifts in the industry and real opportunities for how design can have positive impact in a rapidly changing landscape.One of the most striking revelations is just how far into the background driving has fallen as a part of the in-car experience. For decades, companies have waxed lyrical about the joy of driving as their unique branded experience. While the experience remains differentiated across brands, most have shifted focus to other aspects of driving, namely, how automobiles integrate with the driver’s life, not as a separate experience. Only the performance brands made any mention of driving per se, but even that was contextualized in terms of numbers more than outright experience.Driving, as we once knew it, is forever changed.Fuel economy, safety, connectivity and in-car entertainment are what pass for notable features today. A Volvo ad in the official event program makes reference to “Our Idea of Luxury,” describing the navigation system, the in-car assistant, heads-up display, and a sound system by Bowers  Wilkins.This kind of shift in focus, with reliability and relative performance expectations being pretty equal across brands, opens up an enormous opportunity for disruption in the industry. It explains why the automotive world has taken note of not only Tesla’s alternative power plant but, perhaps more importantly, its means of selling directly to consumers and the ability to update its vehicles wirelessly. This also explains just how much attention the mere rumor of an Apple-designed car The real defining feature of cars will be the experience of There are not many car manufacturers that have a long history of designing user experiences. Driving used to define the in-car experience. But as the mechanical underpinnings of the world’s cars regress toward a mean, driving is similar enough and (more importantly) good enough so that reliability, quality, and durability are merely table stakes.Inevitably, car companies will have to pivot (or partner) quickly. Cars will have to shift from being driver-focused to being experience-focused and car manufacturers are going to need to develop new skills and new ways of working in order to stay ahead of the many disrupters standing in the wings (like Tesla, Apple, and Google, for example). Automotive manufacturers will have to think carefully about how their products interface with the world around them in a myriad of new, unforeseen, smart, and delightful ways. In short, the in-car experience will no doubt evolve but the real opportunity is in the experience of being mobile which will extend beyond the car through connected service layers that allow us to move seamlessly through our world.Geneva tends to cater towards supercars and 2015 was no exception. The good news is they are evolving to meet performance expectations balanced with environmental impact considerations. Most include both traditional internal combustion (IC) and electric power. Ford’s new GT is powered by an 6-cylinder Ecoboost engine and manages to squeezes over 600 bhp out of that (relatively small) power plant. Porsche’s 918 Spyder (a $1,000,000 supercar) uses hybrid technology to get 24 highway MPG. This continues a tradition of introducing new (and expensive) technology at the high end of the market and then letting economies of scale take it into the mass market. Hybrids aren’t new, of course, but hybrids that boost mileage There are a suite of virtual features which are also table stakes: remote access, dispatching of emergency services in the event of an accident, and various on-demand concierge services, most notably. OEMs that use these channels as a way of maintaining relationships with their customers should yield long term loyalty. These services will no doubt include new ways of building product awareness, allowing for customers to access a variety of vehicles as well as offering new financing and ownership models.Active safety systems (Dynamic Traction Control, ABS, pre-collision brake preparation, pre-collision safety belts, as well as driver assistance systems like blind spot warning and collision warnings) that once differentiated vehicles at the high end of the market are now offered across many car company’s entire range of vehicles. The proliferation of these systems is important because they provide a trojan horse for fully autonomous cars. “Active safety” is how the technological underpinnings for semi and fully autonomous vehicles are being marketed and sold today but this is serving an equally important role by acclimatizing drivers to the technology and building trust required before autonomous vehicles gain widespread adoption.Meanwhile, explicitly autonomous vehicles were almost non-existent. Perhaps this was because CES is emerging as the more appropriate venue to introduce future tech for the industry. In 2014 there were a record 10 OEMs at CES (up from four the year before) and the star of that show, Mercedes’ F 015, was nowhere to be seen in Geneva. So while autonomous is being hailed as the next big thing in the media, the evidence suggests that the industry is at least a few years from having autonomous cars in dealerships.Overall, what was on offer at Geneva this year got us thinking about more trends in the industry and the promise on the horizon for further innovation. The variance of content presented by vehicle manufacturers both here and at other venues like CES hints at the renaissance-like evolution that automotive industry finds itself in the midst of. Exciting times whether you are in Las Vegas, Geneva or Detroit to be sure.“It doesn’t occur to most people that everything is designed” — Bill Moggridge

Looking through a raft of digital agency websites recently I was struck by a) how many new sites were in evidence and b) how many were playing down their content offers.In the place of content, which has been a hot ticket for a few years now, there was a focus on experience and experience design.And on reflection it makes a lot of sense.It’s not clear that content and more specifically content marketing have delivered a good return on hype. A few stand out success stories (e.g. Red Bull, Blendtec, American Express) have led to big promises being made across the board.Technology vendors have fuelled the hype with their disingenuous messaging around marketing automation tools — it sounds so easy, plug in your platform of choice and watch your business skyrocket automagically.What these companies forget to mention is quite how complex, expensive and time consuming creating compelling content is, let alone how fundamentally important it is.Content marketing has been a lifeline for SEO agencies who have seen their value diminished by the continual upgrades to search algorithms made by Google.The reason that content marketing has failed to live up to the hype is that a lot of the content out there is crap (as Doug Kessler memorably put it in It’s crap because the old school SEO mentality of quantity over quality persists in many quarters, and because lists of keywords are typical starting points for the content rather than any meaningful insight.A much more potent starting point is user need, and that explains why experience design is now so firmly in the ascendancy.UX designers and architects (UXDs) have worked hard to establish their discipline and it looks to be paying off.The tools of their trade have evolved far beyond the wireframes and sitemaps they are stereotyped for. On agency projects the UXDs are often the first to lead the charge to start workshopping with the client and better yet, with the client’s customers.As the Post It notes start hitting the wall, the focus is the customer journey and the needs that will be encountered along the way. This provides a much more robust starting point for content than a simple list of keywords.Personas will be drawn-up — ideally from primary research, because otherwise they would be, well, pointless — to guide the project and many a marketing manager will look crest fallen as their demographic driven audience segments start to look a little flimsy.Those same marketing managers will look yet more disconsolate in the face of questioning from content strategists as it becomes clear the brand style guide does nothing more than offer guidance on logo placement, let alone tone of voice.As channels and content proliferate, it is hard for brands to present a consistent, coherent and credible approach (one of the the exceptions being It’s much easier to create consistent and compelling content and experiences when you stand for something clearly defined.These trends are leading to what I see as the formation of two distinct types of digital user experience design — strategic or human UX, and technical or tactical UX.Strategic or human UX is where the user need is uncovered and the experience which is going to define the content and consequently the brand is designed. This is both art and science.At the tactical or technical level, sitemaps are drawn, wireframes are constructed and considerations like optimising conversion come to the fore. Of course, another can of worms for another time is where the line is drawn between UX and information architecture…As our lives become ever more digital, the brands we consume must give more consideration to how we experience them on a growing range of devices. It is that complexity which is driving the rise of experience design because it offers a way to manage and understand it.Many sizeable brands are about 15 years into their digital journeys. Only now are they realising that it is no longer enough to simply digitise what they have always done, or port their offline propositions over to digital channels.Fundamental questions need to be asked of brands and content typically isn’t the right lever to pull to get the answers. It’s a useful lever because of the upward pressure it exerts on brands, but it needs bolstering with a bigger toolkit.Experience design in the broadest sense provides that toolkit.The business buzz phrase of 2015 is digital transformation, and experience design will play a full role in driving that transformation.At You might think that saying we are in a post content world is nothing more than a clickbait soundbite to make a good headline. But there is no doubt that content has been dethroned and experience is the new king.All hail the king!Former news journo + digital veteran. Now doing #strategy and #servicedesign at We write about service design, design thinking and digital.

Welcome to the world of the “New Smartphone User”.“Give me a break,” you say. “There’s no such thing as a “Smartphone” anymore. Practically all phones are smart. My 10 year old has an iPhone, and so does my great aunt.”You’re right. Everyone is jumping in on mobile. It’s disruptive technology that didn’t exist in “lots of people can afford it” form 5 years ago.I remember my first “smartphone”. I got it back in the day when the only “smartphones” were Palm Pilots and BlackBerrys.I worked at Verizon Wireless right out of college, and got to watch the users who came in with their “SmartPhone” devices. Most of them were middle age business women and men. They rolled up in their Mercedes’, walked in in suits, and asked us for help re-configuring their email settings.They exchanged their BlackBerry pins at meetings and had inappropriate conversations while looking extremely hard at work. The “Smartphone” wasn’t cool, it wasn’t helpful for the average user, it was a business tool.Then a shift started to happen. Folks began to text like crazy on their flip phones. Parents were coming in to our store waving their cell phone bills around screaming bloody murder at us because they had $1200.00 in charges from their teenagers going WAY over the 250 text limit. (Once a dad even ripped a phone off the wall and thew it at us. People get REALLY fired up when it comes to their cellular devices and bills.)The phone manufacturers realized that it would be easier to text on a qwerty than it was on a regular flip cell, so out came phones like the LG EnV. It was a huge seller. It was still a “Flip” but a long skinny one, that flipped open to reveal a full keyboard in all of it’s teenage text loving glory.The the Moto Sidekick joined the fun too. You could slide the screen up to reveal a keyboard. It was new, it was exciting, and it was incredibly disruptive to the mobile industry.Kids would come into our store, and it was like a ray of light was shining down from heaven on those devices. The gateway to general population smartphone usage was beginning to open.Then entered the very first iPhone. And nothing in the mobile tech industry was ever the same. They targeted the young hipster market — early adopters of tech, not business users. They wanted young adults who were searching for the perfect way to promote their status. The hipsters had something to prove and they weren’t afraid to drop some serious cash to do it. iPhones 1  2 were pretty magical. Only a select group of users got on board that early, the Mac addicts were in heaven.Then came the iPhone 3G, and everything changed again. I jumped into the iPhone scene at the 3G mark. No more CrackBerry addition for me. I became an Apple fan. I wondered how I had ever lived without this little device. I started out using it mainly for email and games, then Facebook stepped up their native game and I was hooked.At this point other manufacturers started to scramble and really try to get in the game. There were LG touch screen phones, but they were kind of messy from a UI stance. Motorola gave them a shot too, but battery life was insanely short; you basically had to have them plugged in all day. No one came close to iPhone, until Android exploded on to the scene.The Android platform had a slow start, then caught like wild fire. Non Apple smartphone manufacturers grabbed hold of Android like it was a lifeboat in the sea of mobile they were drowning in. Some went vanilla, others started customizing, and here we are today: with a ton load of Android devices all running fragmented versions of the OS. It’s all over the place, but it’s customizable, and the users who love it, REALLY love it. The freedom to customize your OS was a huge selling point for the tech savvy folks who had been jailbreaking their iPhones for years.Businesses starting buying employees smartphones, parents starting buying smartphones, they started buying their kids smartphones, the years passed and now even my great aunts and uncles are iPhone and Android-ing it up when they go in to upgrade.So why all the fuss about changes to mobile app navigation right now? “Folks have been using smartphones for years and years, what’s the big deal?” you may ask.The big deal, is that up until very recently, Smartphones were not full blown main stream. They were still a couple hundred bucks, and not everyone could afford them. You can now walk into BestBuy and pick up an iPhone and just add 25 bucks a month to your bill. Or, you can get an older generation phone ridiculously cheap.The smartphone demographic has shifted from the tech savvy hipsters who have used iPhones and Androids for years, to the grandparents who have been using a flip TracPhone up until now. They’re also being used by parents who don’t want to deal with a wifi contract so they let their kids use their smartphones to do research for school, and by elementary kids in the classrooms. A local school just started a BYOD program, and they’re including smartphones in the program.We’re dealing with a brand new demographic of mobile users here folks, many of whom have no idea what a series of stacked lines in a square mean (hamburger icon to you). And they expect more.I think of it this way. Back in the 80’s, DOS was where it was at. Prior, if you wanted to program, you ran around punching holes in things and feeding your masterpiece into a machine. Usability was not the key focus, getting the thing to work was the key focus. Function  than Form, UX  Usability at that point.Then came the internet. If you had a website, you were a magical sorcerer. I created my first one in the 90’s. It was an HTML 1, Geocities back when Geocities was just a big white box to type your code in, Javascript ticker infested hot mess, but it was right in line with industry standards. It had photos, links, the ticker (the shame still runs deep on that one) and that was it.Did it work? Yep. Was it beautiful? Not so much. Was it usable? Barely. Websites and programs didn’t have to be user friendly back then, they just had to exist. Folks piled their homepages full of crazy amounts of info. We were on dial up so images had to be tiny or you’d be sitting there for 10 minutes waiting for a page to load. 26.6k modems. Shudder.Then the industry began to grow and change. HTML grew up, JavaScript grew up, CSS burst onto the scene and things began to improve. Folks started to expect more than for your site to just load. They expected to be able to FIND things on your site, and navigate around with ease. And slowly over time, we moved away from the FunctionForm, Usability and UX mentality into the mindset where we are now, where if your page isn’t user friendly, folks leave and go find another one that is.Form, Usability  great UX are now the focus, functionality is a given. Now user friendly interfaces and a good looking website are the user expectation. The industry has grown up.So now, here we are. Mobile app designers and developers are scrambling around trying to figure out what’s going on with mobile navigation and this shifty hamburger icon. Mobile apps have been around for years now, the hipsters are well versed in the iconography and the expected navigational structures, “It’s always been done this way,” is on the tip of everyone’s tongue. But the way it’s always been done isn’t enough anymore.We’re moving out of the land of mobile being disruptive and new and people being amazed if your app actually loads, and into the land of people expecting your stuff to load in seconds, look fabulous and be usable. Is mobile moving at breakneck speed? You know it. You thought the internet transformation progressed quickly? Mobile is stomping that record right into the ground.We need to start testing all of the mobile things. Designs can’t just be based on, “I’m the designer and I like this so I’m doing it,” like the internet was back in the early days, we’ve moved past that point in the mobile space.People now expect your mobile designs to be sexy AND usable. How do you make sure your designs are usable? Mobile usability testing. And I don’t mean showing your app to your brother who has been using a smartphone for 5 years and him giving it a thumbs up. I’m talking about testing your app design with your specific customer demographic.Mobile Usability Testing tools have come a LONNGGG way in the last few years. Get out there and test your mobile designs with your demographic. Otherwise, your future will be bleak and your apps will wind up chilling next to the old forsaken javascript tickers in that big design graveyard in the sky.UX  Content Strategist at 

This June the Marketing Cloud UX team traveled to New York City to attend our annual Salesforce Marketing Cloud Connections user conference. Salesforce Marketing Cloud helps customers build and manage the many journeys that are owned by customers. Set up in the Expo Hall, the Design  Innovation Lab was a haven from the hustle and bustle of the convention floor where customers could relax, recharge, and engage with our team.Don’t let the mini-golf fool you; we spent two days in conversation gaining understanding about our users’ design processes and experiences with our products.User experience is a two way street; having a continuous dialog with our customers gives them an opportunity to shape the future of the products used in their everyday lives. Below are some highlights from our week.No wallflowers here! Our customers are the center of our universe and we want their feedback one way or another. Those visiting the Design  Innovation Lab were encouraged to fill out a feedback card and post to the wall of knowledge. By remaining in a state of curiosity, we were able to dig deep to understand our users’ motivations and uncover new insights about their needs.We invited our customers to interact with us in a comfortable and casual environment where they could play a round of putt-putt, make a difference with our Spin  Give philanthropic activity, or doodle with a designer at the sketch wall.Our customers were able to make donations on behalf of Salesforce with our Spin  Give prize wheel. Customers’ spins were dedicated to helping educate children, feed the hungry, support foster children, and care for shelter animals.Anna, one of our designers, is awesome at sketchnoting, and she talked with our customers to draw out the journey they embarked on to join us at Connections in NYC. Live sketching is another tool for conversation and Anna was able to capture the unique perspectives and customer journeys of our users. Externalizing ideas via sketching is an easy and effective way to focus and simplify a conversation. Also, it allows diverse stakeholders to gain a shared understanding of the topic at hand.Interaction Designer at Salesforce Marketing CloudA collection of stories, case studies, and ideas from Salesforce UX

Durante quase 3 anos trabalhei com publicidade digital em dois dos maiores veículos de comunicação do país. Editora Abril e UOL, lugares fantásticos que me proporcionaram um aprendizado sem igual, onde conheci pessoas ótimas que continuam amigas até hoje.Entretanto, eu não estava nem um pouco feliz com minha área de atuação, nem com o trabalho que executava diariamente, sentia que faltava algo, pra ser sincero sentia que faltava muita coisa. Eu era apenas uma pecinha em um Universo Online muito grande, que continuaria funcionando muito bem caso eu decidisse ir embora. Decidi, chorei, sofri e saí em 26 de março de 2013.Por opção estava desempregado, um tanto abalado emocionalmente (entre minha decisão de sair do trabalho e a saída efetiva, foram 8 meses bem sofridos), mas tinha um objetivo muito claro e uma meta a alcançar: conseguir um trabalho como Tinha 6 meses para correr atrás desse objetivo e fazer o que fosse possível para alcançá-lo.Existia um pequeno problema -estava sem nada nas mãos- não tinha um portfólio apresentável ou uma perspectiva de qual área do design seguir, como iria conseguir um emprego novo?Sou aficionado por design, fiz diversos cursos, leio e sempre converso sobre design. Tinha certeza que essa seria a carreira que iria seguir, assim que decidisse largar tudo e recomeçar. Nas conversas que tinha principalmente com amigos designers, sempre falávamos de projetos pessoais ou as famosas propostas de redesign que alguém havia feito e eu tinha muita vontade de fazer algo semelhante.Como ainda não tinha decidido onde focar minhas energias e qual área do design seguir, criei uma estratégia: criar um projeto pessoal para cada aprendizado que eu considerasse relevante nos meus estudos. Eu tinha uma regra simples que se baseava em aprender e produzir, enquanto exigia o máximo de qualidade que eu poderia entregar a mim mesmo.Criei uma rotina que era levada bem a sério todos os dias. Ela consistia em levantar cedo, fazer a cama, tomar café e começar a “trabalhar” as 9h00, comecei a fazer isso no dia seguinte em que saí do meu antigo emprego no UOL.Encerrei minha conta no Facebook pouco tempo depois e dediquei minha atenção totalmente a consumir design, em livros, sites e vídeos, também a fazer meus projetos pessoais. Almoçava durante 1h exata e encerrava minha rotina as 17h, quando me arrumava e saía para a aula. Precisava ser rigoroso e manter o foco, caso contrário meus planos poderiam ir por água a baixo.Um dos motivos que aleguei para abandonar meu antigo emprego, era a impossibilidade de conciliar as aulas com minha rotina maluca de trabalho. Era praticamente impossível sair as 18h para chegar a tempo e não perder a primeira aula.Em fevereiro, eu havia começado a fazer um curso Técnico de Comunicação Visual, uma grande decisão que me ajudou muito nesse período de mudanças, mas que só deu certo porque me dediquei totalmente.Já era Graduado e fazer o caminho inverso soava estranho para algumas pessoas. Fui julgado pela minha atitude de largar o emprego e voltar apenas a estudar, outros diziam não fazer sentido cursar um Técnico após a Graduação. Para mim fazia, principalmente porque eu iria usar cada um dos trabalhos, como uma chance de executar tudo que estava aprendendo, para dali extrair projetos pessoais e iniciar a construção do meu portfólio.Nesse meio tempo, meu amigo e mentor Rodrigo Lima que também é (UX) Designer, me falou um pouco mais sobre a área, como ela estava crescendo e que tinha muito a ver com meu perfil. Também me contou sobre o Levei em consideração as dicas e comecei a estudar principalmente materiais relacionados a Fazia tempo que já estava planejando sair do trabalho, contava com uma poupança que me dava fôlego por alguns meses. Resolvi arriscar uma parte dessa grana e fazer uma viagem que talvez me aproximasse mais do meu objetivo. Fui para Toronto no Canadá, fiquei por 1 mês apenas, meu período de férias de julho, foi uma experiência excelente que me trouxe muito aprendizado, novas referências e o mais importante, mudei completamente minha percepção sobre o idioma inglês.Já tinha frequentado 2 escolas diferentes, porém, o idioma estava se tornando uma barreira para conseguir absorver novos conteúdos de UX e também melhorar a qualidade dos meus projetos. Durante essa viagem visitei museus, galerias de fotografia, galerias de arte, faculdades de design, bibliotecas, estudei muito e fui ao show do Bob Dylan por miseros $35,00 : )Em linhas gerais a viagem me fez perder o medo do idioma, descobrir uma nova cultura e também serviu para me deixar com as energias renovadas para prosseguir no meu objetivo. Mesmo nesse período de férias continuei me aplicando as vagas e estudando design no dia-a-dia indiretamente.Era fim de agosto e ainda não tinha ido a uma entrevista sequer, me sentia distante do meu objetivo e já me perguntava se ter ido viajar tinha sido uma boa escolha. Investi uma boa grana na viagem, estava com 4 projetos no portfólio e as entrevistas não surgiam. Foi quando percebi que não havia feito nada relacionado a web, estava apenas lendo a respeito e não tinha produzido nada específico. Me dediquei durante duas semanas e criei um site usando as premissas que aprendi, por falta de habilidade para programar criei uma animação para representar o funcionamento, a qualidade visual não estava das melhores, mas eu tinha algo para mostrar.Antes de viajar tinha reativado meu perfil no facebook, estava fazendo parte do Em 11 de setembro de 2013 seria realizado o 11º encontro e o primeiro que eu faria parte, o livro escolhido para o debate se chamava Intuição Heurística e como que por intuição, também fui ao encontro. Sem conhecer ninguém cheguei na Lumens Consultoria, local escolhido pelos organizadores e fiquei lá sentado quieto, um tanto tímido e com certo medo de falar bobagem. Ainda continuava desempregado, estudando muito e com objetivo de conseguir entrar na área de UX.Ao final do encontro, tive uma surpresa que não sei se considero golpe de sorte, ou simplesmente recompensa do destino, o pessoal do UX Book SP tinham conseguido um ingresso para o Sim, o inacreditável aconteceu e eu ganhei o ingresso! rsSó tinha um pequeno detalhe, o evento aconteceria em Recife (PE) e eu precisaria investir mais uma grana se quisesse realmente participar, ganhei somente o ingresso, ainda teria que arcar com os custos de transporte, hospedagem e alimentação por conta própria, já que continuava sem trabalhar. Nem fazia ideia do que era o Chegando em casa contei isso pra minha namorada, conversei com minha família e perguntei a opinião de todos e mais uma vez fui incentivado.Considerei isso um sinal para prosseguir, decidi investir mais essa grana, viajar mais uma vez e participar do evento, que aconteceria em novembro 2013. Acreditava que participar do evento, seria outro diferencial que me ajudaria a conseguir um novo trabalho. Estava vivendo num mundo de hipóteses, que apesar do meu planejamento e dedicação, poderia dar certo ou não. De qualquer forma, acreditava muito no sucesso de todo esse plano.De repente as vagas apareceram, fui chamado para 3 entrevistas seguidas. Não tinha nada e de repente estava em 3 processos ao mesmo tempo! Fui aprovado em duas destas vagas e estava fazendo o teste final de uma outra, ambas eram exatamente para trabalhar com UX e foi assim que comecei a trabalhar na área em outubro de 2013Mesmo com essa mudança iniciada, não parei de criar meus projetos pessoais, considero eles um grande exercício de aprendizado, uma possibilidade de melhorar a qualidade do meu trabalho e gosto da liberdade criativa que eles proporcionam. Além de sempre existir a possibilidade de impactar muitas pessoas positivamente.Durante minha contratação citei o evento e que precisaria me ausentar durante uma semana para participar, foram muito compreensivos, fui ao evento aproveitei o quanto pude cada palavra dos palestrantes, além de usar meu tempo livre para conhecer Recife e Olinda, voltei com informações preciosas e referências ainda melhores.Realmente consegui a mudança que tanto gostaria, foi complicado. Complicado de verdade! Muitos dias tive vontade de desistir porque achava que nunca conseguiria mudar de área, me mantive firme, continuei estudando, aprendendo e fazendo.Seguir à risca o planejamento e dar cada passo com cuidado, foram extremamente importantes para obter êxito, assim como os projetos pessoais que construí ao longo dos meses, projetos que serviram para demonstrar minha capacidade técnica, meus interesses e minha forma de pensar. Consegui através deles, expor um pouco do que sabia e gostaria de aprender/fazer diariamente.Talvez eu tenha tido um pouco de sorte nessa jornada, mas eu sei também o quão difícil foi correr todos os riscos que corri. Desde o primeiro deles, sair de um emprego teoricamente estável, com benefícios e um salário relativamente bom, para tentar uma mudança radical de área.Tive também o risco de investir o dinheiro que deveria me manter, em duas viagens para tentar acelerar todo esse processo de mudança. Sem esquecer que estava sendo pressionado por todos os lados (família, amigos, namorada).Gastei muita energia, engordei alguns kilos, estudei como nunca havia estudado e tive muito apoio de algumas pessoas. Sem essas pessoas tenho certeza que nada disso seria possível e eu teria desistido no meio do caminho. Sou grato a cada uma delas e estou feliz com a mudança que fiz.Se você está pensando em mudar algo na sua vida, aproveite essa leitura e não espere que os outros mudem por você, corra atrás e faça acontecer. Faça um planejamento e leve a sério cada passo. Pode ter certeza que valerá muito a pena depois!No próximo post vou detalhar um pouco mais quais foram minhas principais fontes de informação e falar exclusivamente da importância desses tais projetos pessoais.Até breve ;)The answer my friend is blowing in the wind and I breathe design things. 

You’ll be surprised, but now there is an airplane just for athletes.I was preparing for the AirXperience conference in London on 16–17 September when I hit on The Nike plane is designed for athletes and athletes only. Every detail is examined through the lens of a multitude of experts – physicians, coaches, sleep specialists and most importantly users. Every new design element is responding to a real need – recovering injuries, improving physical readiness or preparing new game tactics. No fancy design, just useful design.The solutions proposed for the Nike plane are valid for athletes, who are a rather “extreme” group of passengers. The research done on new materials, structures and services, however, is tremendously useful to all developing new cabin solutions. Looking at the extremes often makes it easier to uncover unmet needs, which are valid for the mass user too.Last but not least the Nike plane is not just another design solution, it’s a business solution too. By introducing the co-branded aircraft cabin, an airline can transfer some of the cost to another brand. Apart from cost-sharing, such partnership could be beneficial for the exchange of know-how. Choosing the right brand means also choosing a partner that has expertise, which your airline or airport doesn’t have – retail, design, payments, etc. It’s about combining forces and providing more personalisation options to passengers.This is an adapted version of the original post, which was published on Design Thinking Evangelist and Independent Passenger Experience Expert  Blogger

Google Images is a great product but there are a few areas where the user experience and design can be better. So, I spent a few days refining it.Too lazy to read? Jump to the bottom and watch the video for the tl;dr.These issues turned out to be the biggest for most users. Also, no users reported ever using the voice search option on desktop, so that feature has been hidden for now.This is only the first revision so some things (such as the functionality and instructions on how to search by image and changing search from Images to Web, Shopping, etc.,) haven’t been implemented or aren’t being demonstrated. The positions and design of some elements have also not been finalized. My fellow designers may also notice a certain lack of Material — but don’t fret! Right now what you can see though is:Watch the demo below and please do give feedback!Cheers!- noun. a person with mutant UX, UI, Ix and IA design, ideation and beer chugging powers

I have been working in various aspects of user experience, primarily with agencies, for over 10 years and in those 10 year UX discussions have gone from looks of confusion to nods of it being the hippest buzz word at that moment in time. In a way it’s great to be the coolest kids in the room, but unfortunately the room’s understanding of UX is too often limited by physical deliverables they get from us rather than the thinking that goes into creating them.Let me try to explain. In March of 2000, Jesse James Garrett published a PDF called The Elements of User Experience.(here: However it also laid out the framework of site objectives, information architecture, interaction design, content [strategy], etc. It’s my opinion that as UX grew as a desired role in agencies, and the role had to be defined, the ease of understanding this graphic led to the deliverables that are mapped to its framework defining our roles.The problem comes from other roles being so clearly defined. Producers, produce — Strategist, define strategy — Developers, develop. User experience, well… umm.Additionally, UX as a department is different everywhere you go. Some have content strategy in there, others have QA and analytics. It’s easier to expect a document than it is to understand all the different processes.So as I’m talking to people about my next career move I’m getting asked “what is it you want to do?” Explaining my desire led me to what I think is a good reset for how we as UX practitioners can avoid being defined by our documents.User Experience is two things. Knowing this I first approach the For instance, maybe the drop off rate on a form is 75%. One hypothesis is that the form is on too many pages and should only be on one. Simply by bringing all the content onto one page gives a visual indication of success that can be quickly tested.In the middle you can see that the result of this approach is a variety of options. Those options should vary from comfortable to disruptive. If they don’t you probably need to test more ideas.Finally, on the right, solutions are evaluated and implemented. Evaluation consists of working with anyone who could kill the idea and getting their buy-in. It could be marketing, tech, etc. Implementation is half obvious in that it’s the deployment of the idea. The less obvious half is actually more important. Implementing correctly means tracking success with some level of analytics.None of this is to say that UX doesn’t, or shouldn’t, produce things like site maps or wireframes. Those documents will always be valuable to the creation of the end product, they just aren’t good ways to define the actual value that a UX process brings by first understanding the problems and testing possible solutions before committing to a final product.Using the above method to talk about the UX role has helped me build understanding with my colleagues and clients regarding the thinking that has to happen in order for my teams to produce the documents we’re known for.Now if I could just get everyone to stop calling my interaction designers “IAs”.I have over a decade of interactive experience including user experience, web design and programmingThe Editorial Page

According to the latest data from As a lot of companies think about their Mobile strategy, the top question on their mind is how they can take their existing apps and deploy these apps for Mobile. Or if they are developing new apps, they try to come up with a one-size-fits-all design to work with Web and Mobile. There is nothing wrong in finding synergies in what we do across platforms. But keep in mind that the web and mobile platforms are fundamentally different with several subtleties on Mobile platform. So design for Mobile from scratch. You will spend some extra resources but the end user experience will be much better in the long term.Remember the golden rule “Less is More”? It truly applies to Mobile app design. Mobile screen space is limited and you cannot afford to fill it up with anything that is less than relevant. Images and iconography can help saving the space and conveying the right information. So use these as much as possible.Most of the times users are interacting with the app either to discover new information or do tasks efficiently. With mobile, the emphasis on usability needs to be balanced with a focus on rapid learnability and discoverability. The app should allow new users to discover information and learn how to do things. Once they have learned their way around, it should help them do the tasks they are looking to do efficiently.Mobile users generally tend to fall into one of two categoriesWe as humans love choices. When thinking about apps, we want to give our users choices. But when it comes to Mobile apps, too many choices is not good. In fact its quite bad. It leads to poor decisions, delay in accomplishing tasks and customer dissatisfaction. A good design practice is to remove unnecessary choices. Collect data necessary to make intelligent decisions and present the right information but avoid unnecessary options. Remember choices, make assumptions, collect customer behavior data and iterate.Focus on a few key things during the first few iterations and get it right. If we apply long tail theory to product design, 80% of users will use 20% of features and remaining 20% will use 80% of the features. Determine what functionality is used most or what is the key pain point that application is trying to solve and put your resources behind making those more efficient. Then expand the feature set via further iterations.Mobile as a platform is prone to interruption and mobility. Keep these factors in mind when designing your task related workflows. Break larger tasks down into smaller ones, save states often and put content throughout. Enable users to act quickly on time-sensitive information. Reduce clutter, reduce distractions, eliminate complex forms or typing. Define defaults that insightfully map to real user user behaviors.One advantage that Mobile has over other platforms is that it is with a user all the time. At any time, there is more data and context than just the user interaction through the interface that can be captured. This data is a function of the user, the environment and established behavior patterns. This includes obvious things like sound and movement, but also more abstract concepts like location, proximity, environmental factors, social networks, and intent. Take advantage of this abstract data to learn about the context and apply it in making the decisions or presenting the right information.Mobile users want to accomplish tasks through their interactions with the app. These tasks can be broad like browsing news or specific like checking weather. Identify what they are trying to do and design every function of your app to help them complete their task in as few steps as possible. Discard everything else.Native apps deliver the best experience on a particular platform with highest performance and the best access to the device APIs (phone, camera, GPS, address book, gyroscope, magnetometer, location-based services, maps, special transition effects, etc.). This typically translates to a stronger user engagement. Web apps on the other hand allow programs to be written once and deployed across multiple platforms differing in OS, user interface style, input mechanisms, display form factor, size, and resolution. Hybrid mobile apps attempt to strike a compromise between native and mobile web. Knowing your customers and what features are need should determine which design to go with.Take advantage of platform UX as much as possible. Do not develop custom interfaces which do not work as per platform expectations will confuse users, slow down adoption, and put a significant obstacle in the way of engagement. Instead, take the principles of the OS-native interface kit, and subtly style your interface elements without altering the underlying functions.Finally, once you have your Minimum Viable Product (MVP) out there, start measuring results against your KPIs, learn user behaviors and iterate. When getting feedback and prioritizing feature set for next release, rely on what your users actually do, rather than what they say.Product and Marketing Strategy | Product Management | Business and Partnership Development | Mobile and Wireless Domain Expert

What’s hot in UX this week:Providing users with a seamless experience while using your interface is a popular goal when building digital products. Modern day devices and software enable complex transitions between elements on your screen, and as designers we should embrace this development for a better user experience. But how do you define a good transition?Animation maintains context. Our digital products enable us to do the unimaginable these days, like ordering a cab from your wrist or preparing a meal without having to think. Subsequently, it means our job as interface designers is crucial for a successful product. With all these complex interactions and possibilities, users can quickly loose context and orientation within the product. If elements on your screen are suddenly (re)moved, you can lose an understanding of the interface. It’s not peculiar to use animations and sound effects in movies when someone goes through a time machine, so it’s only natural to use this in your interface as well.via Almost two years ago, the Photoshop team pivoted to focus its energies and resources on design features and workflows. To be successful, the team needed to understand trends in design and tools, as well as develop connections and empathy to design and designers.There are moments as a patient when you feel understood. It might be as routine as ordering a rushed prescription renewal through your smartphone on a busy day or as monumental as a team of clinicians working around the clock to ensure a safe and sound birth.We leverage the sounds of our morning alarm or the distinct beep of an unlocked car to communicate with our technology. Yet there’s an assumption that user interfaces communicate mostly through a screen, overlooking the power of sonic language.Even in an age when the biggest operating systems in the world actively eschew file hierarchies, Dropbox is thriving — its service matters deeply to countless users.Few days ago Apple released long awaited music streaming service. It wasn’t a die-for matter for me as I’m long time Spotify user and I’m quite satisfied with it, but as an Apple addicted guy I was really curious how the company that once revolutionized music industry plans to retake the cake.As design goes in-house, the future of independent firms is murky. Here are four reasons why growth isn’t a given. Design is hotter than blazes, so why is it that traditional product design firms aren’t growing? In fact they seem to be, well, challenged.via A weekly collection of UX-related links, curated by your friends at Share the love ♥Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

Muito tem se falado sobre criar soluções centradas nas pessoas, que precisamos ter produtos relevante para a vida delas, que é preciso ouvir os usuários e fazer pesquisas. Não tenho dúvidas de que precisamos de tudo isso. Mas ao olharmos a quantidade de ferramentas e entregáveis da área de UX é necessário saber quais e quando usar cada uma delas.Se você ainda não conhece os entregáveis de UX, pode conferir aqui: Ultimamente tenho visto startups brasileiras trabalhando cada vez melhor a experiência do usuário de seus produtos. Por isso resolvi investigar mais a fundo e trocar ideias com profissionais de algumas das maiores e mais conhecidas startups brasileiras para entender como eles têm se movimentado em relação à adoção de UX no fluxo de trabalho delas.Conversando com elas percebi uma coisa em comum: Para testar viabilidade e hipóteses sobre os produtos, as entrevistas com potenciais usuários antes do desenvolvimento e testes com protótipos navegáveis em html ajudam as empresas a sentir de perto as necessidades e ganhar feedbacks valiosos sobre o produto.Algumas vezes as startups (não só no Brasil, mas no mundo todo) surgem com soluções que atendem a uma necessidade de seus próprios fundadores, como no caso das plataformas MOOC (Massive Open Online Course). Diego Alvarez (da EasyAula) e Matt Montenegro (da Beved), por exemplo, também são professores na própria plataforma que criaram. Outro exemplo é o da Bel Pesce (da FazInova), escritora do Best Seller “A Menina do Vale”: ela mesma ajuda a abastecer a plataforma com aulas e conteúdos dos seus livros sobre empreendedorismo. Isso acaba ajudando na construção e evolução, já que os próprios fundadores são usuários do produto e por isso conseguem validar certas hipóteses e fazer melhorias.Porém para as empresas precisam ser relevantes não só para seus fundadores, precisam estar em contato com seus usuários, fazendo pesquisas quantitativas, qualitativas e testes de usabilidade. É importante adequar todos os pontos de contato para que a experiência seja agradável independente da plataforma que for acessada.Fico otimista de ver tanta gente empenhada em fazer com que ideias que parecem simples se tornem serviços prazerosos, mas para isso existe muito trabalho por trás de apps, sites ou plataformas. Mas no final o que importa é gostar do que se faz, e aproveitar esse momento que estamos vivendo de inovação e oportunidades.Se você também aplica UX na sua empresa, comente e compartilhe o que tem feito. ;)Founder  Lead Designer Algumas coisas que aprendemos ajudando a construir novos negócios.

Understanding how users interact with your product is a key to lean software development. Seeing people trip over your navigation or completely turn around your expected use case may be cringe inducing, but it’s critical to understanding if what you built delivers. We’ll take a look at software we’ve used at Hudl to see exactly how a person uses an app in a non-intrusive manner. It’s not only saved us loads of time but also greatly increased our sample size.There are several well known methodologies to see and understand actual use of desktop and web software. From low-tech methods like sitting behind someone and watching them use your software to high-tech tools like One tool that helps me better understand Hudl’s mobile users is After releasing a redesigned 4.0 version of the Hudl iOS App, we noticed people love to tap their profile pictures. This wasn’t an action tracked by any of our standard analytics because it wasn’t something we expected. After watching several sample sessions we recognized the problem, reprioritized the profile and linked the profile picture to an editable profile page.My favorite example of watching users to see how they interact with the app was with a highly-requested feature we built for iPads called “Edit Breakdown Data.”In our initial prototype we modeled much of the user experience around our web implementation of the feature. More or less a spreadsheet that lets our coaches enter data about a clip they’re watching (e.g. offensive formation, play, yards gained).We gathered feedback on wireframes and hi-res mocks in user interviews and everything seemed to line up. We developed a beta of the feature over the course of a couple weeks and released it to 20 beta users.We pride ourselves on developing software that helps users get their job done with minimal friction. After watching people use Edit Breakdown Data, we realized we’d done the opposite. Users were entering the same information for multiple plays but were slowed down by having to scroll through a large list and select the same data each time. It was taking users 20 minutes to edit the data columns on less than 20 video clips. This is something that would take two or three minutes on the web. Qualitative feedback from verbal user interviews indicated the same.With this in mind we went back to the drawing board for version two. Based on feedback from users and what we saw in AppSee, we wanted to make it easy to select data that is used repeatedly. We added a “Recent Data” column in addition to the full list of data when the user tapped on a cell to edit it. We display values chosen recently, as well as the most-used. We also sped up certain animations to create a feeling of speed. While the app didn’t process data any faster, small changes like this can improve the feel of the overall user experience.We’ll be releasing this update to the same beta group in a couple of weeks and going through the same methodology for qualitative and quantitative feedback. This feature will be released to millions of users shortly thereafter. As coaches add more data to their video this will both save them time and give data based insight on how to improve their game.Mobile and Front End Engineering Product Manager Behind the scenes of the product team and more.

When a user first signs up for a complex app or SaaS product, a good onboarding experience is invaluable. Onboarding tools may consist of modals, in-line help, and interactive tutorials. They are critical for conveying value and retaining new users. But there is a bigger use case for onboarding: to keep converting users throughout their lifecycle.Convincing a user that they should convert from a virtual passerby into using a product is a delicate process. A ton of emphasis is placed on the first experience, as it should be.Some products are notoriously great at it. Slack has become the “golden child” for how to create an awesome signup flow. Onboarding flows can be built to be intelligent, identifying specific user types within an application and presenting functionality that’s most relevant to them. Canva asks its users what they plan to use their product for. This information can be used to adapt what they show to each particular user going forward.When a prospect is converted to a user, it’s certainly a milestone to be happy about. That’s where the In the SaaS world, the second half of the customer engagement funnel holds the majority of revenue potential. Renewals and upgrades are where 70–95% of revenues come from. Therefore, a huge focus should be placed on Once a user has signed up and had a basic introduction, there is still much learning that needs to take place. Showing users everything at once about your product is a terrible way to teach them — you can’t expect them to internalize and prioritize everything all at once. A user can be guided through deeper functionality of a product upon returning for a second or third time. When a new feature is released, guide a user to actually As a user becomes more familiar with a product, they find out new things — and find more value.To get users to upgrade, the same great onboarding tactics you used to get them to sign up in the first place should be used similarly. As described by User onboarding is about more than the first user experience, and it’s about more than upgrades and retention. It’s about approaching your product with a philosophy that the more users learn and discover, the more value they will get from a product. This value is repaid not only in the amount a user is willing to pay, but also in a level of customer adoption where they love a product so much, they’ll tell everyone else they need it too.Published in References:[1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] Product Hero Writing for Better User Onboarding

My little brother’s name is Igor. Unlike other twenty-one year olds he barely eats any fruit or vegetable. He’s been like that since his third year. He only eats apples, bananas, potatoes and corn. And that’s it.Some time ago I asked him to do me a favor by trying a tangerine, what he actually did. He was carefully chewing a piece, like it’s some sort of a living thing. After a few seconds he spitted out the semi transparent shell and asked me, puzzled: I was stunned. I didn’t know how to answer. His first question was resonating in my head. It’s understandable that someone who has just met the unknown object, will disassemble it and analyze the basic components separately, in this case: skin, semi transparent shell piece, pulp and juice. His questions were real, so to get the right answers, I needed to think like him.When I got into Igor’s state of mind, I wanted to perceive what other plant has the worst overall user experience. Like someone who grew up on the countryside, watermelon was my first thought.Through the analogy of observation, approach and interaction with the watermelon I recognized the following flaws and advantages.Flaws:Advantages:From this simple list, we can see that “against and for” ratio is 10:1, but still we simply adore watermelons. It seems that to us — “normals” — the only thing that matters is taste. The experience of taste leaves everything else behind.Of course, neither the watermelon or any other fruit should be analyzed like this. But the question sets itself, is Nature — the greatest designer of us all — intended its products for all of us, just some of us or none of us. Maybe watermelons are made for bears or wild boars.Design 

There’s this joke about a super drunk guy at a bar called Larry. He realizes he has to poop. The bartender tells him where the washroom is, and off he goes.Larry lets out a scream from behind closed doors. Seconds later, he lets another one out. The bartender rushes into the toilet, bangs on the door, and asks what’s going on. “You’re scaring customers,” he says.“I don’t know. Everytime I flush, something comes up and squeezes my nuts,” says Larry, grimacing. The bartender comes in, and realizes Larry is shitting into the mop bucket.Kevin Hale told this story at a keynote session of Tech in Asia Singapore 2015 to illustrate a point. A toilet sink and a mop bucket share a lot of similarities. They’re both containers of water, have equivalent heights and handles, and they’re located in the bathroom.But even sober folks are susceptible to confusion, as some lawmakers found out when they mistook a mop sink for a Muslim foot washing sink:The joke illustrates something called false affordance. Affordance is a design concept signifying a potential action enabled by an object. Using a mop bucket as a toilet sink is an example of false affordance. In other words, it’s making wrong assumptions about what we can do with an object.There are times when false affordances work in our favor. Many office thermostats don’t work because the air-conditioning temperature is set by a central computer. Nonetheless, it gives tenants an illusion of control — a placebo effect that leaves them contented to think actual change has occurred.In many cases, however, it frustrates users. False affordances should generally be avoided. While many toilets do that by hiding their mop sinks, “hiding valuable features is ridiculous,” says Hale, because users should ideally find them with no trouble.The key to eliminating false affordances lies in what’s called the intuition and knowledge spectrum:So there are two ways to close the gap. One, increase the knowledge of users through documentation. Two, make the app intuitive and easy to use. The second way is ideal.Think about the things that need documentation: programming languages, App design therefore should gently guide users towards the desired behavior. Witness the A negative example would be sink designs, which have evolved from something entirely functional to something aesthetically pleasing but difficult to grasp.Witness the clear markings: red for hot, blue for cold. To get water, turn the lever anti-clockwise. Easy.Gradually however, designs evolved into this:While aesthetically pleasing, it creates confusion. Users take a while to figure out how to get the water flowing and how to activate the cold or hot water. It sacrifices usability for sleekness.There are times though when convention has to be broken, especially in the name of innovation. How can you go about it yet at the same time give users a pleasant ride? Besides adopting the time-honored practice of Hence user interfaces should nudge people towards repeating an action until it becomes automatic, without the need to refer to manuals. It’s the fly in the urinal — men instinctively know to aim without any instructions.Here’s an example in software terms:The “Beta 3″ version of the iOS slide to unlock feature confused many users. It lacked a prompt guiding users on which way to slide their finger. Worse, the “up” arrow at the bottom is situated near the prompt, causing users to mistakenly swipe upwards. The problem was fixed by “Beta 4″ using an arrow sign which hints at the right way to do it.Such simple measures go a long way towards avoiding false affordances and creating a product that is simple to grasp.Managing editor at Bringing you stories on Asian tech and startups. Wanna submit a story to us on Medium? Email at 

UI design is one way, we designers, are in direct contact with their users. Thanks to this, we have a huge opportunity and responsibility to give them our best by creating great user interfaces. Various metrics can be used to measure the quality and clarity of user interface and some of them might contradict with each other. Fortunately, there are some areas we can focus on to get the best results no matter what can happen. I split these areas into ten segments and, in this and future posts, will share them with you.The main reason why you should care about the quality of your UI design is the satisfaction of your users. There is a simple equation to help you. The more satisfied and happy users are, the higher is the probably they will return on your website, use your app and other products. Even though there are some In order to simplify the theory of UI design and make it easier to understand, you will learn about all the segments individually. All segments will include couple of main points that can be used as meta sub-topics for better organization. These sub-topics will be organized as individual paragraphs to keep them separate and clear.Let’s start with the first segment.The best and fastest way to immerse the user in anything is through captivating story. This applies to UI design as well. Great storytelling will help users move through the website, app, etc. Storytelling can also be used as a guide or subtle tutorial to help them understand how things work and what their options are. There are various ways to achieve this effect.The first thing you can do is to use real images. Listen, you can use dozens of stock or other ready-to-use Next option is to bring a mascot in the game. Great example can be mailing newsletter service Third part of great storytelling and immersive UI design are custom messages. This means saying good-bye to universal popups and other stuff, no cheating. If you want to create remarkable and unique interface, you have to craft these elements on your own. Only then will the interface sustain the same impression. With custom messages and other elements you will be able to create whole new world(s) for your users to live in.Next on the list is the buzzword of this and previous year … Be When designing user interface, you should remember to include social media in some form. We are social animals and the ability to share information with other people in our surroundings is often important decision factor. You don’t have to use default options provided by social networks like buttons. Link with an icon can do the job as well. Or, if you feel comfortable, you can create a custom solution on your own and use it instead. Just remember to always provide some option for social interaction for your users.The last advice for creating great UI design through story is to implement interactive content. The biggest player in this area is probably While silent video playing on the background can be acceptable for most people, something louder can be reason for visitor to leave the website or shut down the app immediately. The same applies to audio as well. Even though it can fulfill your brand’s message, you should always re-consider including any type of content with auto play set as default. At least you should mute it.Audio and video are not the only types of interactive content moving around. Elements such as forms can be improved in such a way, users will even like to fill them, no joke. What’s more with more and more advanced web technologies including HTML and CSS the number of options is increasing. Today, if you are willing to ditch the IE8, IE9 and Opera mini 8 you can use the Going a bit further, you can also mix CSS or JavaScript animations with content created with SVG technology (IE8 does not support it). These elements are not just for decoration. Using animations in your UI design can have a Simple example can be a little spinner or some effect on button like filling with different color when user submits a form on the website. Also, it is much clearer to show the user some mistakes he made by highlighting the input with movement (like shake) than just with color outline.Let’s end it here for by highlighting the most important points of this first post of UI design series. Today, we explored various options to create story to improve the design of user interface. In short, these options are using real images instead of ready-to-use, using a mascot for creating deeper and stronger relationships with users, creating custom messages suiting the brand, focusing on authenticity in every moment, offering ways to share on social networks with friends, family, etc. and last using an interactive content to create more immersing and longer lasting impression.I hope this information about UI design will be useful for you and I look forward to see you next time when we will discuss everything about navigation. Until then, what are your tips to create a story?Czech web designer, developer, innovator, blogger, entrepreneur. UI designer in 

Uncover the DAU in your industry by looking beyond your productby Rahul CaprihanI have worked on Finding that daily user to drive engagement can seem elusive for many products. How often do people look for jobs? Book a flight? Buy new glasses? For many product categories it may even be impossible to reach both daily use and massive scale. But before you give up on the I am the PM at That said, we have found that people At Hitlist, we primarily think of ourselves as a mobile company, but we recently built a simple Many people have caught on to the marketing strategy here. It is still too early to tell if this growth hack will pay off, but the While I can think of dozens of products that could leverage this playbook for A few examples might help kick-start your brainstorm:There is no secret tactic for engagement, retention or growth. Success usually comes from a dependable internal process, iterative experiments, solid design+engineering…and luck. My advice of just be creative is not really actionable advice at all.But, I will conclude with a few broad takeaways:Find me 

Lets start by understanding the acronym “UI” in terms of “UI design”. If you don’t already know this, then please stop reading, this article really isnt for you.So for those of you who “do” know all about UI design, then it is of course…But I’d like you pause for a moment and re-read that last line…Yes, that’s…And to be perfectly clear, that’s…So I could stop there. I know all the User Interface Designers out there get exactly what I’m saying here, but this article isnt aimed at User Interface Designers, its aimed at “User Interface Designers”.Guess what And And The list goes on…So, what about For those “User Interface Designers” who didnt get the last two points, then this next section is specifically for you. For the User Interface Designers who did get them, and did want to read on; well done — make sure you Google the following and read up.So…Again, the list goes on…So you Let me guess, most of the above didnt make sense, the words appeared like jargon or you still believe you’re a User Interface Designer?I’m guessing…Sounds about right?Well you’re a surface designer!… you skin user interfaces or apply styling to them. Despite what all the blogs from the graphic design world say, in the world of product design, user experience design, interaction design, usability engineering, and user interface design, this vertical is known as Visual Design.You’re a Visual Designer!They’re just as important as any other vertical in the product design machine, and it would be amazing if you wanted to learn more about User Interface Design — everyone’s welcome.But please don’t call yourself a User Interface Designer. Its not your fault you don’t know what you don’t know, but those User Interface Design guys, well they have an awful lot of knowledge about You may not have liked this, but Please ❤ UX Design Lead and Usability Specialist at McCann Manchester. These are my views 

Source: What is UX all about? According to So it is a dialogue. And what makes a good conversationalist? First of all it’s being a good listener.When you are talking to somebody they are almost never interested in what you say. They want to express their opinions and their feelings. Let them… and do it actively. Then when you gather enough data (of course some questions would be advised) involve more in the conversation to put it in the rails that are right for you.And when you are trying to get control of the conversation but at the same time you would like to keep the person talking, how do you achieve it? Firstly, you’re nice, secondly you ask helping questions from time to time and lastly your body language is positive. Before your interlocutor notices the subject has been completely changed and you are having a lot of information on them.UX is a pure dialogue with different layers like: the research, the design and the evaluation.How this analogy can be even remotely UX related? Let me divide the presented example into 3 phases:1. The talking2. The interaction3. The body languageSo you launched a website and you persuaded users into the conversation with ads, social media and other channels that directed them to you. What happens next?1. The talkingDo you know Source: 2. The interactionThe key thing in this part is the moderation. Let the users do the normal task in the app and interrupt it only but only if it is needed. You do it often they get angry. Simple as that.3. The body languageYou are running a financial institution website and have kittens on your main visuals — bad ideaYou have an app for teenagers allowing chatting, sending images and short vides and you use quotes like “Enlarge your networking opportunities” — bad ideaWhat do I mean by that? If you don’t know we are in trouble. It is crucial for the product to succeed. Once you put in on the market you need to analyze it performance in terms of different metrics. The metrics I am talking about are obvious: the UX metrics. If you want to read more about them, please get familiar with this one fine article: 1. The talking2. The interaction3. The body languageNothing really new I am going to say. Be a great conversationalist if you want to be great UX designer. Listen actively, ask the right questions and be positive :)Source: UX Designer

I would say that animated mockups is the new flat design. Beside it being trendy it is also good to see a lot of people using animation skills in to better communicate visual ideas. But keep in mind that animation does not replace interactive mockups and user testing. These should always be your goals to achieve a great user experience.After Effects might look intimidating but its not that hard to use for doing basic stuff. While you can import a PSD direct to After Effects interface I prefer to export PNG assets from my original PSD as I need them and organize it inside the After Effects composition. Exporting as PNG is also good if you use Sketch or another tool. If you never used After Effects I will explain the 3 basic concepts: To simplify things, imagine composition as a PSD file. Meaning a composition has layers and each layer has a behavior, style, and so on. And it becomes really useful to simulate positioning or camera movements without having to touch your original mockup animation since you can place compositions inside other compositions.Imagine each keyframe as a representation of your layer in the timeline. It might be position, opacity, scale etc. Set an initial keyframe, move the scrubber, do what you want to do with the layer and set your keyframe again. In the end youll have two keyframes X time.Observe that as I drag the timeline cursor it automatcally renders the values from 0% to 100% showing a nice fading effect.Doing a right click on the keyframe shows you even more options like easing effects. You can do Ease In and Ease Out. Also a double click on a keyframe will allow you to quickly change the keyframe value.This perhaps is the most scary thing in After Effects at first glance. To someone who never used the app before, its a lot of information but the concept is simple: it exports your final file to a desired folder using the choosen video format.Now that you have the basics, all that’s left is telling a story by animating your mockups. So try it yourself before you say you can’t do it. Start with simple things like a transition between two screens and them move on to more complex things like delete a list item.Also keep in mind that is just 5% of After Effects. It also lets you animate things by writing code. Take a look at this blog post by This post actually began because Ive put together a really basic template for iPhone Apps that I want to share. While its simple it also has some options like colors (gray, gold, white) and a diagonal version. Also you can change the background color.To use it you just have to touch Your Mockup composition and then use the Render Angle 800x600px or Render Front 800x600px compositions to generate video files.The template also has a basic demo app with animations and I believe it will help you to see how basic animation is done and helps to communicate some interaction design.→ Sadly, After Effects does not have a built-in GIF export so after you render your video I found that the simplest way is to open it inPhotoshop and use the Save for Web dialog to export as an animated GIF.Product Designer at trycelery.com

Anthropology as a discipline is incredibly varied, and runs the gamut of subfields that cover every aspect of what it means to be human; Archaeology, Linguistics, Biological Anthropology and Socio-cultural Anthropology — All of these fall within the header of “Anthropologist”. The word itself invokes a variety of mental images. While some might picture an Indiana Jones-like character cracking a whip and escaping pre-Miley Cyrus riding wrecking balls, others see a grizzled scholar, poring over books from an armchair settled next to a fire. Those that might know more about the discipline might envision an anthropologist observing the rituals and culture of a tribe in Papua New Guinea, or exploring the social rites of passage of college fraternities. Most, I would assume, would never use the term ‘user experience’ in conjunction with Anthropology — Which is unfortunate, as much of the theory and practices of Anthropological teaching align perfectly with those of UX.Its primary goal is to understand why — Why do we do the things we do? What motivates us? What makes a group of people similar or dissimilar to other groups? How has human existence changed or stayed the same? Anthropology is a holistic science, one that examines the entire gamut of human existence — From its earliest origins to modern-day cultural and social systems to gain a better understanding of how and why we do the things we do. If you think this sounds much like the job description of a User Experience Designer, you wouldn’t be the only one to make the connection. Many large corporations, such as Google, IBM and Microsoft have hired resident Anthropologists and teams of social scientists to help navigate the waters of human experience and help them to understand their users.If you’re studying Anthropology or social sciences and it comes as a very pleasant surprise that you could someday work for Google or IBM, you’re not alone; I myself was quite shocked to find that not only could my degree be applied to a career I had never even heard of, but also that my academic and methodological training as an anthropologist aligned quite beautifully with the professional requirements and methods cultivated by UX designers and researchers.Socio-cultural Anthropological research involves the study of the behaviour of a specific group usually to serve a research hypothesis or theory. It emphasizes ethnography, or the collection of data via field-work and direct participatory observation of the group being studied, along with secondary methods such as survey and cross-cultural analysis. Anthropology majors not only have training in the collection of data related to human experience, but are also quite adept in compiling, interpreting, and reporting on their research. These same methods, which Anthropologists and social scientists have been implementing for centuries, have since been adopted by the bourgeoning industry of UX in their study of technology and those who use it. The term ‘Ethnography” itself, firs popularized by cultural anthropologists like Bronislaw Malinowski, has been adopted by the UX community to describe, quite rightly, their methods of research.User Experience research aims to provide insights and understanding into the perspectives and wants of their users through qualitative and quantitative methods. User Experience research aims to provide insights and understanding into the perspectives and wants of their users through qualitative and quantitative methods. Anthropology has exactly the same motivations and cultivates very similar methods in attaining insight on those they study. So why have aspiring Anthropologists like myself never heard of UX?In my four years of College, I don’t recall a single instance of hearing the term ‘User Experience’ or even ‘Applied Anthropology’, Not once did an advisor or professor relate the possibility of applying my degree and training in anthropology and social science to technology or business in a way that broke from the traditional model of Anthropology. In my experience, the jobs that I was informed that I could attain with my major were either academic or pertained to cultural research management, such as museum work. Why is this? In my opinion, it seems to me that the neglect in reporting professions in Applied Anthropology at the University level, and instead pushing students in the direction of careers that favour of classical and scholarly pursuits seems to go hand in hand with the general view of Anthropologists that private sector jobs and big-business/corporations are wholesale evil or inherently unethical. Coupled with this is the simple lack of transparency regarding the ability to implement Anthropological thought in a technological context and to online, as opposed to small-scale, communities.So if you’re an Anthropology major or recent graduate, and like myself, are unsure about you future prospects, consider researching User Experience and other applied/digital anthropological careers. Look up if your university has a resident Applied Anthropologist, consider interning at a tech company, or conduct some independent research on online communities or social media. I think you might be surprised at how well suited you are. And if your business is looking to better understand your users and what they need or want in a product or service consider anthropologists –We’ve spent much of our academic career preparing for a job in UX without even knowing it.UX Connections is dedicated to knowledge-sharing for digital creatives, technologists and designers worldwide.

To design delightful product experiences that make life easy, most product designers actively research how relevant people think and behave via exploratory research and usability studies.But more and more, we are learning the basics of how information is We intrinsically value the human aspects of our lives. Leveraging this principle, designers are creating more relatable and empathetic products, in contexts where it makes sense. They are learning from guiding principles used by great personal trainers and life coaches.They are writing out scripts for the conversation a product will have if it were a person before they design screens. Employing this tactic will enrich the interactions a user will have with future products.The goal of designing is one of the following:In the first 4 situations, a product’s impact can be improved, by having a more human conversation that resonates with the user.Users engage with most products in ways that evolve over time. What motivates them to come back every day might be different from what keeps them coming back for weeks and months. Designers today are becoming more aware ofUX Design. Problem-solving. Behavior  habit design. Story-telling. [ Questions. Frameworks. First principles. Core values.] Lead UX Designer Thoughts that can help us be better designers

I gave a talk at Does the minimum-viable approach lead to gaps in the user experience? It doesn’t have to. There’s a distinction to make: The set of features you choose to build is one thing. The level you choose to execute at is another. You can decide whether or not to include a feature like ‘reset password’. But if you decide to do it, you should live up to a basic standard of execution on the experience side.Features can be different sizes with more or less complexity, but the quality of experience should be constant across all features. That constant quality of experience is what gives your customers trust. It demonstrates to them that whatever you build, you build well.I like to I want a base level of quality execution across all features. Whenever I commit to building or expanding a feature, I’m committing to a baseline of effort on the user experience. That way feature complexity — scope — is always the cost multiplier, not user experience. There aren’t debates about experience or how far to take it. The user experience simply has to be up to base standard in order to ship, no matter how trimmed down the feature is.Minimum viable products are about learning what you need to build. They are matters of surface area. Whatever minimal feature set you decide to build, you can decide to build it properly. That commitment to quality at every step is the way to keep customers with you as you work upward from minimally viable to featureful and beyond.Designer at 37signals/Basecamp since 2003. I write occasionally about UI design and product management. More at 

The iOS and Android have different conventions and standards that you should do your best to follow, some of which include:When we first designed the Wallaby app for Android, we ported over the same look and feel from iOS, which led to a lot of angry Android users. Since then, we’ve adopted the Android look and feel and have seen our app rating rise constantly.If you’re developing for both platforms, be sure to read read the 1-star reviews hurt but you can learn a lot about what’s wrong about your product from them — whether it be about the app crashing, incorrect data or missing features. Not everyone wants to take the time to write a review, so let your users send you feedback other ways or contact your users to get their opinions. If you don’t give users an easy way to contact you, how will you ever know something is wrong?The Wallaby app offers multiple ways to send feedback on different screens. In addition, we send out emails and surveys about the app and what can be improved. For example, our #1 requested feature was support for online stores. We not only added support but we sent out surveys to see which stores were most popular to make sure we supported them. If users can’t find their store, they have the ability to submit it to us so we can add it to our database.People are constantly on the go so any time that can be saved can greatly improve your app’s user experience. With mobile phones, you don’t have to start at a blank slate. Use the information you already have to create a faster, smarter user experience. With a mobile phone, you have access (with permission) to a wealth of data such as a user’s location, address book, pictures, calendar and much more.With the Wallaby app, the main use case of the app is advising which card to use. Earlier versions of the app showed a list of nearby locations when you launched the app and required you to select a place before the app would let you know which credit card to use. Now, you are presented with the same list of nearby locations but the app shows you which card to use right next to it, thereby skipping a step to get the information you need. You can still tap on the place to get get more detailed information if you want.How could we improve this even more? By not even requiring them to launch the app. If you connect with Foursquare, you can check in with the Foursquare app and well send a push notification about what card to use. If your card has a special time sensitive bonus, such as the Chase Sapphire Preferred with triple points every first Friday of the month, we’ll push an alert that morning to remind you. Weve also dabbled with wearables like Look at any highly rated app (not including games) and you’ll likely notice that the majority follow the designs and conventions of the platform so users will already have a sense of how to use the app. They collect lots of feedback, listen to their users and constantly improve their app. Finally, they are smart about what is shown and are always helping users accomplish their goals faster. You might have the greatest idea for an app but if the UX is poor, no one will use it. By following paradigms, getting feedback, and reducing friction, you’ll be well on your way to an improved user experience and a 5 star app.What do you think? Have you seen good examples of any of these tips from your favorite apps? Share them with me on Twitter (Lead User Experience Designer 

They are not just a reboot of marketing spam. The last thing we should be focusing on is bombarding users with unnecessary spam notifications.Companies need to understand that by using iBeacons for marketing notifications, they are contributing to a bad user experience. If a customer was browsing a store, it would be bad form to verbally interrupt them, and it isn’t any different than doing so digitally. What user is going to jump for joy when they’re receiving notifications for something they may not want or care about? It comes back to Understanding user context will help to create notifications that are more relevant and less spam-like. Understanding the best possible experience for your user and using iBeacons as a One major thing companies have to consider is when a user/customer is When thinking about using iBeacon notifications, remember one thing:Something else to take into account when designing iBeacon notifications is how to present these notifications so the user is in control. How do these contextual notifications function and is the user able to engage with the notifications? Is it always a passive experience, or can the user initiate the actions?What happens when phone is on and users are close to the iBeacons?What happens when they open the app and users are close to the iBeacons?How do you tell users whats going on, or how to take advantage of the iBeacons? Signage?Do you hide the iBeacons?Do you make the iBeacons visible to showcase the experience and show transparency with privacy?In Store Mobile Checkout : Or Contact-less Payment. Enable specialized in-store features and pre-populate them. Maybe combine that with ApplePay.ATMs: Proximity based security and dumb terminals.Restaurant Drive-Thrus: Order food using your phone when you come close to the menu sign. No more horrible speaker mumbling and incorrect ordering.iBeacons can offer endless opportunities to better engage with your customers and to provide seamless experiences for them if used in a way that keeps their wants and needs the focus. Learn about your user, understand their context and use iBeacons to To learn more about how to effectively use iBeacons, check out my other articles on VP, Experience Innovation at A collection of articles created by Universal Mind thinkers.

Here at For a long time we didn’t actually do user testing. We had a long list of excuses for why not — it takes too much time, it costs too much, recruiting is hard, we need an expert to do it right. These excuses were so common they felt like mythology, handed down from generation to generation, you’d think user testing was some sort of mythical unicorn — widely believed to be awesome but rarely seen in person outside of design story books. One day we finally asked ourselves — could mythology be wrong? Over a year later and after countless failures and iteration, we have discovered that yes, conventional thinking is wrong. User testing can be cheap, fast and easy and you can start doing it today.This post is designed to give you the tools and confidence you need to finally close the book on excuses, mount your unicorn and start surfing the user testing rainbow.Reaching out into the world to ask for help from complete strangers can seem like an impossible task. The However far in advance you do recruiting it still takes time. To help alleviate administrative pain we’ve automated as much of the workflow as possible, one specific tool we’ve found helps with the painful task of coordinating available appointment times and followup is We used to think that to do user testing properly you needed an expensive facility with fancy equipment and software. In The largest expense and by far the most important is making testers feel special, we give everyone a gift card to thank them profusely for their time. This also helps motivate them to respond in the first place. To ensure the quality of our Craigslist testers, yes unsurprisingly people surf Craigslist looking for quick cash, we use a simple screener we host onWe’ve all been in a situation where we overcommit or have been forced to design on a short timeline. In this scenario you get to the end of the project before realizing you forgot about user testing. Typically there’s no time to recruit testers, no time to develop a prototype and run a test and even less time to synthesize feedback and iterate. When you alert your team they sigh and tell you “there’s just no time, plus everyone’s happy with the design! Relax…”At FreshBooks we solved this time management problem by simply As for prototypes, we use User Experience Research is a relatively new field, and one that emerged from academia, making it appear to most that if you didn’t study it in school you couldn’t possibly do it yourself. The Don’t have time to read even a short book? Then please note the most common amateur pitfall — Designing tests that lead a user or produce false-positive results. To make your tests less prescriptive try giving a user a high level scenario and task rather than a list of steps to follow.This post is short for a reason, we know you don’t have a lot of time but user testing is too important for you not to be doing it. Hopefully we’ve given you the confidence to get started. There’s plenty more to know, and mountains we’re still learning too, but the most important thing right now is that you stop making excuses and start doing it.Jeremy Bailey is the Creative Director @ Product, Design, and Development at FreshBooks

Product Designer Currently at Bethel Media | Stories of user experience and product design

Recently I have been influenced to force big emphasis on user experience while designing or planning a new web product. Resisting the urge to add more elements, fancy pictures and converting that into an urge to declutter and question the added value of every element in a web page.There are no current web solutions for that, there are some ugly-desktop apps with zero user experience and some mobile apps that are very similar.My intention was to radically transform this experience with a web 2.0 solution that does the same job with a well-thought user experience.I’ll share more take aways and will keep this updated.parallel entrepreneur

Opening an app for the first time is exciting. After all, what you already know about it has piqued your interest enough that you decided to download it.When the app finishes launching, occasionally that feeling of eager anticipation is gone as fast as it came. You can see the interface you recognise from the screenshots, only now it’s covered by an overlay filled with descriptive text, and arrows pointing at different areas of the screen. Suddenly you’re not thinking about what the app can do for you — you’re thinking about all of this new information you’re required to take in. The fact that you’re being shown these things means they all must be important. The next few minutes is crucial to your experience; you’re going to need to remember all of it to succeed using the app. Maybe you should just come back later? No, what if the guide isn’t there then? You need to do this now. Come on, you can do this. Just sit down and start learning the information.See how stressful this is? It’s slightly silly, but it’s a normal reaction. The excitement you felt before launching the app is totally gone, and now you just want to get the guide over with.If you’re a developer whose app requires a guide, you’re probably more than concerned that your users are going to feel like this, but possibly have already conceded defeat to that inevitability. Well, I have a revelation:Sound magical? It gets better. You can actually use a guide to make them feel more excited (though don’t use this as an excuse to include one if one isn’t required).With some of the best examples, the user doesn’t generally think of them as a learning process. They’d possibly even say the app is letting them play with it, when in reality they’re being taken through a carefully constructed educational guide.The Dots learning experience is incredible. The instructions are made to blend in with the game, using natural elements as much as possible. Words are only used when necessary. Each screen is designed to allow the user to learn new things through their own experimentation, rather than explanation.They guide the user by the hand the whole way, as discretely as possible. From the user’s perspective, they may connect 4 dots and then be given them again for the next task — to connect them into a square (which gives them more points in the game). In reality, it was intended for them to figure out for themselves that they could form a square. When they failed to do so, rather than caution them, it simply gave them it as the next task. Users who got it right first time were moved straight on to the next step.There’s some wonderful techniques used by Dots during this process. The user now understands how to play this entire puzzle game, and not once should they have felt a sense of stress or boredom. If you can create an introductory guide as well as Dots, your users will have a solid first impression.Another great example is Clear. Clear introduced entirely new concepts in user interaction, and so it was necessary that they teach the user how to use their app for the first time. Each instruction is displayed as a to-do, and gives the user a simple task to carry out. Performing each of these tasks allows them to discover other elements of the app for themselves, such as its hierarchy, without being explicitly told about it.Dots and Clear use similar techniques to ensure a great user experience during this process:And follow each instruction with an opportunity for the user to practice what they’ve just learnt. Moving between instructions without an opportunity for practice puts the user into the mindset that they’re learning. Consider if Dots had instead used a paging scrollview, with an illustration on each page. The experience would’ve been much less enjoyable, and more stressful as the user feels pressured to remember each instruction.Use in-app elements as much as possible. Dots used dots. Clear used to-dos. Doing this familiarises the user with the interface.Use instructions about one element to lead them to discovering another. As much as possible, allow them to believe they’re learning on their own. The user will not only be more likely to remember things they’ve learnt “by themselves”, they’ll feel more of a sense of achievement.You can see how, by following these rules, you can implement a much more effective way of teaching the user than the examples we see used most frequently. With the use of these techniques, the user is able to forget that they’re being taught. It removes all stress and pressure and makes them actually enjoy using your app for the first time.The learning process doesn’t have to be a necessary pain. Dots and Clear have proved it.I’ve orbited the sun 24 times.

When creating a web site for multiple screens and devices, many options need to be explored to determine how to create the best web experience while maintaining a consistent and optimal user experience. With the variety of devices used to view the web already, from phones and desktop computers, to netbooks and tablets, this list will only continue to grow.The speed of technological developments introduces new devices into the market very frequently. While this can be exciting, new capabilities bring new ways to interact with the user, which can make it more difficult to target all the variations. No two projects are ever the same so it often boils down to which options are right for the current needs.With a recent project here at Teehan+Lax, we decided to start the discussion using a simple When designing for multiple screens, determining a starting point is key. From there, the design can be scaled up or down, adapting the design and flow accordingly. For many years, the 960 grid was sufficient for targeting the most common resolution sizes. However, with the exponential increase in the use of the web on mobile devices, is it better to approach a mobile first strategy?There are vast differences in the amount of space available for mobile browsing versus desktop browsing; starting with mobile first forces you to decide what’s most important and can therefore impact the design and content strategy greatly.When thinking beyond the desktop, another consideration for mobile should include whether to add enhancements such as touch gestures. Although, if touch navigation is available, there should also be an alternate call to action such as a button or link in the event that the touch actions are not immediately discoverable by all users. For example, With the introduction of Ethan Marcotte’s While responsive web design is a great alternative to creating a separate desktop and mobile site, it’s not simply about changing fonts and images to fit smaller or larger screens. This concept requires collaboration between designers and developers to determine how to redistribute the elements. Content strategy is also important to determine how content is shifted or even removed based on how each device is used. Even for a single website, upon the initial creation, three to five mockups will be needed to plan the layout for all the different target resolutions. Also, some additional work is required to ensure that older browsers that don’t support CSS3 will degrade gracefully.A good resource to see responsive web design in action is The main drawback for creating a separate desktop and mobile site would be the need to maintain two sites’ content and codebase. However, this may still be the best option for content heavy sites that require more simplicity or a layout for mobile users that goes beyond shifting and scaling content. If you decide to go with a separate desktop and mobile site, there is yet another option to consider: Native apps or web apps?Native apps are specific to the device and can access the phone’s resources such as the address book, geolocation, and camera. It also doesn’t need to be connected to the internet, although some features may require a connection. Also, it can gain visibility and be monetized through the phone’s marketplace. However, native apps are built in the specific programming language of the device (Objective-C for iPhones, Java for Android for example), which can make it expensive and time consuming to maintain and develop different apps for various devices in a variety of languages. Native apps also require third party approval by the phone’s store, and can be a long process and in some cases, the app does not get approved.Web apps run in the phone’s browser under a subdomain, usually m.domain.com or mobile.domain.com. It’s built using standard HTML, CSS and JavaScript so developers can use their existing skills to build the site. Because of this, it’s accessible across devices and doesn’t require any downloads or updates which can result in a wider audience reach. However, the phone’s resources cannot be accessed through a web app and requires connection to the internet.A third option is to use a combination of the two, a hybrid mobile app. A hybrid app is native, and must be downloaded from an app store or marketplace and runs from the device. However, the application code can be written with HTML, CSS and JavaScript and embedded. Frameworks like Going through so many options may feel overwhelming and guess what? There are no right or wrong answers. There are those who would argue that some techniques are better than others but it really boils down to target audience, target device usage, resources, time and budget. Whatever the final strategy may be, one cannot assume that a multi-screen approach is a thing of the future. It is here, now.Web Developer  Educator. Technical Lead at Ladies Learning Code. Free agent. Fuck em, we ball. 

Dave Chappelle once did a sketch about what the internet would be like if it was a real place. Like most things Chappelle does, it was hilarious but there was also a lot of truth to the sketch. Chappelle’s depiction of the real-world internet had most of us laughing because it pointed out how absurd and slightly horrifying the internet would be if it was actually a physical place.It’s been over a decade since that sketch first aired on Chappelle’s Show and things have changed quite a bit since then. Even so, I can’t help but be reminded of that sketch whenever I stumble across a seemingly interesting article or I click on a link for a slideshow or listicle after foregoing my better judgment. Though Chappelle was making fun of the absurdity of the internet as a whole, I’ve started to feel this way about the user experience on certain websites. If you’ve spent any time clicking around from one site to another, you’ve no doubt felt my pain at some point.In these moments, it can seem like some of these sites are so unconcerned with user experience that they’re actively trying to get you to leave before you can finish consuming the content that brought you there in the first place. We’ve all experienced this at some point, and it sucks. But more than that, it doesn’t make sense.Every site on the internet is fighting for your attention. Your eyeballs. Your clicks. Your time. Your personal information. These things are incredibly valuable to all websites because they are ultimately translated into advertising dollars (or better yet, you actually purchasing something from a given site).Despite the fact that we know better than to click through another listicle or slideshow, we’re only human. The phrase “to err is human” has been around for centuries. And today, perhaps it’s more accurate to say; “to slideshow is human.”So, as humans, we click around social media and end up on sites we might be unfamiliar with because we couldn’t resist a brain dead but intriguing listicle. Given the overwhelming number of options for news and entertainment on the internet, it would make sense for sites to try to construct their UX so people spent as much time there as possible. After all, competition for your valuable attention is fierce, and a good user experience can make a big difference. But some sites seem like they couldn’t give less of a shit about user experience.Here’s a somewhat exaggerated user experience someone might endure after clicking on a link to an article that was recommended by a friend on social media:So, to recap your experience:Even if the content on that site was the most amazing, life altering prose you ever encountered (instead of being mildly amusing pictures and recycled jokes), it still might not be worth it.Listen, I’ve been there. I used to work for an agency that made apps and web sites in conjunction with major partners and sponsors. Advertising makes the world go round. Those brands pay top dollar for placement and they want to make sure their logo or creative is prominently displayed.I’ve seen both sides of the equation. I’ve seen designers who can’t bear to look at the final product because the brand creative and way it’s presented to the user is so terrible it completely destroys the user experience. I’ve been in meetings and on calls with agencies whose sole purpose is to make sure their mega-account is happy with the way their brand is featured. It’s a tricky dynamic that is anything but ideal. But there has to be a better way.There has to be some middle ground.I shouldn’t have to close 3 ads and be prompted to enter my email address before getting to the content I wanted to read. I fully understand that an ad-free experience or even an experience that is minimally invasive from an ad perspective might be asking too much. I understand there are complications and people paying a lot of money for us to see their ads. I understand that the bottom line ultimately trumps all.I also understand that some websites aren’t so abusive in their UX practices that you feel a sense of accomplishment by the time you’ve actually gotten to the content. But at least some of the time when I’ve clicked on a link I ask myself if anyone gives a shit about user experience. But I guess many of those people I’m asking that question about don’t care about UX; they simply view it as a means to an end. A means to an end that they’ll entertain to the absolute bear minimum so long as it allows them to get your attention, your clicks, your eyeballs, your information, and your time.I don’t have it figured out. I’m just trying to write my way through it.No IT Dept: You’re On Your Own

The best startups metric system is It turned out that I had a misconception about what user Technically they could be equal. You’ve got some ghost users exploring your product, then they click SignUp/SignIn button.That’s why our activation rate have been sucked for a long time.Improving activation is about looking for The Benefit Moment comes when your users Moreover, you must be sure that the user finally gets it. To grab attention you have to work on a form and a copy to describe this benefit moments.Activation is as if you play popular ‘free’ iPhone game. At the moment when you are motivated and engaged enough you understand that you can’t do the next step until you purchase something.Look at the Yes, I hate this type of ‘free’ games. But for our product activation is really free. At Yes, it’s ok to build activation-wall for user.My plan for improving ActivationConcertWith.me co-founder, product, growth, startups, (live) music

By User Experience is focused heavily on trying to understand context, activities and people to better solve their problems. If we know and understand the people who are using our product, we’ll be able to design a better product for them. Below are six tried and true strategies for ensuring your website is user friendly, taken from our Keep in mind that many users will come to your site via a secondary page. For example, a user can be sent a direct link to a specific page on your site through email or social media. Some common secondary pages that may be linked to include:Wherever a user enters your site, it’s an opportunity for you to suck them into your experience and convert them into a regular user. Therefore, all possible landing pages should easily convey what the site is and why they should stay.Simple page titles mean users can quickly find what they’re looking for. When naming your navigation bar, keep in mind what your target audience would use to describe your categories.Do your research to figure out what terms people are searching when they get to your site and make those pages easily accessible in your navigation.One way people research in the UX space is with an Knowing this, it is key to align your content within the pattern. For example, When you write for the web, it’s important to avoid long paragraphs. Large blocks of text work much better on paper than they do on the web.Consistency is also something you need to keep in mind in terms of readability. If you are working on a site which has many content contributors, it’s important to train them on proper headings and line breaks, as it helps users quickly identify which content is significant.When taking into consideration contrast, it’s good to know that black text on a white background is the easiest to read. There is an exception here when a user might be staring at the screen for a long time. This can then cause the eyes to strain, and so using a black background a white text is recommended in that case, just like how most developers tend to use a dark background for their work.If someone is looking to fill out a form on your site, chances are they’re ready to dive right into whatever you have to offer. Making this experience easy for them is vital in converting. Every bit of extra work you require from them, the less likely they are to return.There are pages on every single website that a lot of people forget about. One example is the 404 Page. Some tips to turn the frustration of your user hitting a 404 page into an engaging experience are:Take a deeper dive into user experience design.GA transforms thinkers into creators through education and opportunities in tech, business, and design.Latest stories in the growing field of UX Design

The 6-year-old Colombian stableboy had never seen a computer or mobile phone before, let alone an iPad. Yet when Michael Noer, executive news editor at Amazing as it sounds, we shouldn’t be too surprised. The death of the instruction manual has long been on the cards.In Ethiopia, What happened here, and in countless other farms and playgrounds the world over, is a far cry from the early days of computing. In 2002, Toshiba’s Microsoft Windows 3.1 Users Manual boasted 650 illustrated pages. Back then, reaching for a manual was considered a prerequisite for use.Not today. Instruction manuals are largely a thing of the past, their presence seen almost as an admission of a poorly designed product. “Quick Start Guides” are about as close as we get. As the technology industry strives for the ultimate in user experience, designing products which people can use immediately, out of the box, has become the holy grail.Usability becomes even more of an issue when you consider most of the technology sector’s future growth forecast is set to come from emerging markets, not the safe havens where many of the products were conceived.This represents something of a shift. The cultural and geographical landscapes across the developing world are quickly becoming the test bed of choice for global technology companies. Facebook, for example, If an app works under these conditions, then it’ll work anywhere. Or so the thinking goes.There may be a digital divide between the global North and South, but that doesn’t mean we can’t learn anything from the constrained, the less connected, or the less technologically savvy. The next time you upgrade your phone, give a thought to the Colombian stableboy or Ethiopian schoolchild if it does precisely what you expect, and simply works out of the box.kiwanja.net helps social innovators, entrepreneurs, engaged citizens and non-profit organisations around the world make better use of technology in their workInspiring stories about the people and places that are building our future. Created by Steven Johnson, edited by Ian Steadman  Duncan Geere. Supported by the The Lemelson Foundation, Gates Foundation and Knight Foundation.

Three years ago, I was an English as a Second Language teacher at a university in San Francisco. I was excited that my degree helped me get a position at a university, and I was excited that I wasn’t teaching at a language school anymore. Three years ago, I thought that learning Mandarin or Korean was the key to my future. I was already planning to move abroad and teach English, and maybe to use my degree in Linguistics to teach at foreign universities. Then, three years ago, I fell in love with User Experience Design.I was a teaching assistant in a UX Design course at my university and realized that UX Design and the methods it encompasses are more than important; they’re I’m no stranger to cultural difference. My mother is from Jamaica, and I was born and raised in Miami, which is an ethnically diverse city and hub of international business and culture. Similarly, English as a Second Language teachers have to connect with large, diverse groups of individuals — people who are just as interesting, boring, entertaining, and frustrating to you as you are to them. As a teacher, you have to give a shit about each individual in your class, their goals, their problems and their strange habits on any given day.The root of empathy is not only being aware that you are working with others, but caring about them. If these were people on the street, you could be sympathetic to them. You’re with your students for months, though, so you know what they’re feeling with psychic precision. You know when they’re tired, frustrated, distracted, or homesick, and you want to help them. People will ask you how you know. Do you “sense” things? Are you trained in emotional intelligence? Usually, you just talk to your students and try to understand their story.Especially when you’re teaching writing or public speaking, you focus on the audience. You have your students ask themselves: Who are you speaking to? What are you telling them? Why the fuck should they care? And you ask yourself those same questions that you asked your students every day before you get up in front of them. You have to design your activities and lessons to communicate what’s useful, but more importantly, why it’s relevant. You spend a lot of time connecting ideas to what’s happened in your class, but also to things outside of your class because all of your students have lives as unique as your own. When you understand how your students relate to your class, you can invest your time and energy on activities that help them instead of on some new technique you just read about that they’ll be indifferent to. For example, when you know that your class is a safe space in a foreign university for some of your students, but a perceived waste of time and money for others, you can frame it differently for both audiences at the same time. It can be a chance to practice new skills When you’re talking with native speakers of your language, it’s hard enough to communicate without misunderstanding. There’s body language, tone of voice, facial microexpressions, and your ex’s sarcasm. When you’re teaching non-native speakers of your language, especially when it’s a group who don’t all speak the same native language, you have to be psychic. You have to make assumptions about A large part of reading between the lines is assuming that people are cooperating with you in the conversation. If that fails, you ask for clarification. This helps you have productive conversations because it removes the doubts about the relevance and purpose behind each other’s comments. For example, if your Asian students ask your Middle Eastern students about Muslim women covering their heads in public, maybe it’s because they don’t know much about Islam and would like to know more. Maybe it’s also an opportunity for your otherwise reticent Muslim students to share their expertise and beliefs. And if the students were actually criticizing each others’ culture, then it’s a good thing you just changed the conversation into a learning experience.I think the best explanation of what leadership is to you as a teacher is:Often, the class you’re teaching is not the reason why someone is taking your class. Your class is required, so you have to figure out why it’s required, what value the students might get from your class, and how you can help them recognize and appreciate that value. You tie your assignments to their goals, and if that fails, to the course’s goals. Another way to say it:Your job as a teacher requires you to motivate other individuals. It involves balancing intrinsic motivators like being part of a group and feeling accomplishment with extrinsic motivators like grades and even praise.Another part of leadership in teaching is recognizing other people’s strengths and weaknesses because you’re a person-optimizer. You can leverage someone’s strengths to improve their weaknesses and build advanced skills on top of foundational skills. You help people who are learning to speak better by tapping into their love of watching You read about new research on how people learn, about new activities for your classroom, and about new technologies and platforms like flipped classrooms and Massive Open Online Courses. You try, or would like to try, a lot of them. You’re not interested in the next big thing; you have educational values, and you want to maximize your time spent on effective activities. It’s your Teacher’s To return to the topic of motivation, but this time from a personal perspective: you know what’s disappointing? When people are struggling and don’t understand you even though you’re trying really hard to reach them. You know what’s fucking brilliant? That moment in flow when they do. This combined sense of purpose, progress, and competence is why you’re motivated as a teacher, and it’s why you’re self-motivated to learn.Teachers have a unique relationship that involves a conflict between the power of the position and an intimate relationship that comes from being so close to people for so long. Do you mind if students add you on Facebook ? Will you go to their birthday party barbecue? What do you say when you run into them under a redwood tree in Muir Woods? And because you meet so many people, you get to see all they ways they relate to you. Do they think you’re strict? Pedantic? Funny? Attentive? It’s hard for the average person to balance who they are with how other people see them, but you have the experience of being many things to many people.You are funny and serious. You eat dinner with students — after all the papers have been graded. You teach, and you listen when your students teach you. Your identity is more nuanced than a rigid persona, and you can recognize that in other people, so you know that even though you have professional relationships, the people you work with matter, too.Both teaching and design require a diverse set of skills and more agility than a long-tailed cat in a room full of rocking chairs. They require action with intention. I can’t say which intentions are inherently better than others. I can say, though, that because my main intention is I hope these questions can be as useful to others as they have been for me. And if you have more great questions, dear reader, please send them to me. And please attach Designer and cat gif-er. I ask good questions.

The last five years has brought a visual design awakening. Visual Design is now a driving success factor in digital products and services. Technology has reached a point where developers can build almost any look and feel with code. Technologies like HTML5 and CSS3 enable a new world of interaction and design liberation. Apple continues to set a precedent for visual design. IOS 7 leveled the playing field by dissolving the aesthetic embellishments of the past, allowing visual All this focus on visual design is relatively new. Only a few years ago most tech companies saw design as the result of the interaction between computers and people. “User experience” was the driving success factor. No matter how user-friendly product were, they still had the tendency to look ugly.Visual design is completely different from user experience. Visual design is the combination of design principles and Visual design is now just as important as user experience. Technologists have realized that concepts like typographic hierarchy, visual balance, contrast, harmony, etc., as well as a deep understanding of brand identity allows the user experience to come to life and have meaning.Just a few years ago visual design wasn’t so sexy in the tech world. The best visual designers were found in the print, packaging, and advertising industries. Now those worlds are becoming integrated with tech. Many former print designers are making the jump from print to pixels.In the next five years we will see beautiful visual design expand to the ugliest parts of the web. Hold on tight. Things are about to look a whole lot better.How do you see visual design’s role expanding into technology in the future?If you like what you just read, please hit the green ‘Recommend’ button below and follow the Product Designer 

Video is central to the user experience of the World Surf League. The mobile apps launched in March build on the WSL’s promise of Traditional web based video content locks the user into a single page while they watch. Navigate away from playing video on a web page, even within the same site, and playback stops. That experience has mapped to native mobile apps, and it’s an experience we wanted to fix for our audience.We wanted to free the user to embrace multi-tasking, encourage their desire to browse, and utilize the functionality we’ve assembled in the app In the original implementation, video content was pushed onto the navigation stack. The user could then back out, and navigate to an entirely different section of the app. Tapping the mini player returns the user to the original video context, and we had little choice but to return the user via a modal. This subtle change in presentation was deceptively disorienting.Multiple folks flagged it during user testing, but weren’t quite sure why it felt icky. The simple solution that resulted from a lengthy process was to present video and event content in modals. Always. Treating video as a more specialized destination, and presenting video on top of the core tab bar interface allowed us greater flexibility. The introduction of a With a single consistent entry and exit to and from video content, the modal transition was a perfect candidate for refinement via the custom View Controller Transitions available since iOS 7. We knew that would help to address the disconnect between the video player you’re leaving, and the mini player that becomes its minimized UI representation.As we dug into mapping out the transition, it became apparent that the original mini player was too different (resized) and disconnected (repositioned and off center) a representation of the source video player. As a result we designed a mini player that was clipped top and bottom and pinned just above the tab bar (much like the Apple Music Navigating within video content, without first leaving and transitioning to the mini player has been the elephant in the room since March. Navigating to something shown below the playing video was exactly the kind of casual browsing we wanted to facilitate yet the original solution of simply presenting the regular mini player felt disconnected and wrong. There were also a lot of scenarios in which you could get lost or in your own personal mini player inception hell.We looked around and couldn’t find an app that had addressed a similar problem, so we felt like we were more justified building something novel. Rather than show the mini player at the bottom as we were doing when leaving video, we took a leaf out of the App Store Explore tab (to be successful, novel has to be grounded in familiarity after all). There, navigation stacks vertically and pins to the top allowing you to return to any point in the stack easily. The transitions pushing in from the bottom communicate this stacking of content nicely.Dropping the status and navigation bar gives us a little extra vertical space to accommodate the user’s browsing. Tap to return to the underlying video content is the only action on the mini player peek. It’s subtle, but minimizing the distance the mini player has to transition and keeping it in a familiar position makes a big difference addressing this tricky scenario. A shadow and a little dimming to communicate the VOD content within the app has fairly short body text associated with it so scrolling is of little concern. But events are a different animal. Below the live event broadcasts there is a lot of content. Scrolling leaves the user feeling thoroughly disconnected from the heart of their WSL experience. So we knew we had to persist the video across this final scenario to ensure a playing video is truly omnipresent.The solution was to again utilize the new mini player representation and sneakily tap into the scroll of the stack to collapse it down to mini player size, and then leave it pinned. It’s simple, but thats how we like it. It’s especially pleasing to scroll down, and tap into some related content to see these two scenarios play nicely together.There is a lot left to refine which threatens to keep me from ever publishing this, but I feel like at this point we have the visual and transitional structure in place that is a very deliberate and considered evolution of this central pilar of the WSL experience. Tune in for the I’d like to extend thanks to Rich Robinson for collaborating on this concept and design, and seeing this as a significant step forward. My proudest work to date was implementing Adrian Phillips’ original design and app concept for the WSL that remains central to the mobile apps. This whole refinement process was made possible because of freedom we’re afforded through the trust Adrian had built within the WSL. Thanks also to Dave Crawford and Adrian for helping me edit this post down from many thousands of words.The At launch the app offered a breadth of content — events, rankings, articles, videos, galleries — alongside mobile centric features that took advantage of the platform — custom notifications, “following” athletes, bookmarking content, and a custom feed of content and heats. It was warmly received by the surfing community, and has been steadily improved and refined in the months since launch.Maker of apps, websites, three childrenStories and technical tips about building apps for iOS, Apple Watch, and iPad/iPhone

Note: This is entirely a concept design for a class project and is not affiliated with any specific museumChildren’s museums really understands the needs of children; they are doing a great job on this learning process. Their mission is to create extraordinary learning experiences across the arts, sciences, and humanities that have the power to transform the lives of children and families.In one of the museums we researched at, there was a space, the Planetarium that was essentially an IMAX movie theater in a dome that felt dated and was definitely being underutilized. This is the space where we wanted to work.The concept of “building your own world” grew from this idea of “Play.” Play First, and learn through the process. When kids play, they run, jump, climb, paint, draw, sing, they’re very, very creative, very expressive.We performed a session of contextual inquiry (Some of the research insights are as follows —We conducted an interview with a graduate student majoring in Museum Studies. We aimed at understanding the nitty-gritty that goes behind designing exhibits and what drives certain design decisions.Our major insight from the interview was that museum exhibits design decisions are made by working in tandem with local educational institutions that specify the curriculum for kids of different age groups. Based on the curriculum the exhibits are designed to match their learning in school.We went back to our drawing board after the initial few rounds of research and decided to map each each designer’s insights and understanding as a team to visually represent and organize our ideas.Based on the research we arrived at a few goals for the project.After visiting the museum and getting an idea of the space, we formulated a strategy to ideate and sketch concepts.We aimed to explore the space of A few of the problem spaces explored in the domain of play are as follows:We went crazy with our ideas and sketched out multiple redesigns of the existing space. Each concept had a unique selling point and also certain drawbacks which made us drop a lot of excellent concepts.Below are a few sketches and concepts explained in the caption.Taking Designing the interactions was the most challenging portion of our design as we were shooting for a seamless interaction design that catered to attracting kids at the same time teaching them a few things about the environment.Please watch the video above to understand all the interactions as we have very clearly explained how they take place in addition to the rationale for choosing the different objects that we did for enabling tangible interactions with the terrarium.Grad student. Human-computer interaction/design. UI Design Intern at Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

I love my job at Skyscanner. I don’t mind saying it. Those of you who know me will know I don’t say things I don’t mean. Not even for my employer.I wouldn’t have come out of self-employment to work for just anybody, so I’ve recently been thinking if there is a recipe for a good user research position within a company. Here is what I’ve come up with.I’ve researched rather a lot of subjects in my time as a usability specialist, the list goes from watching telly programmes through to suicide. One of the reasons I joined Skyscanner was because I enjoyed researching the subject of travel so much.This makes a big difference to me as a full-time employee of a company. Researching the topic of suicide was very interesting but after a couple of weeks I was a bit of a wreck if I’m honest. As a user researcher you need to empathise with the people you are researching and the circumstances they are in. This leaves a bit of you open that a health professional probably needs to close in order to function from day-to-day.Other subjects are frankly a little bit boring. You can care about them because they are novel, but not for too long. I’ve been full-time at Skyscanner for a few years now and feel I’m only just scratching the surface of this subject.People tend to fall into two types when planning holidays. They either like/love it or they hate it. Most of the people I talk to to love it because Skyscanner’s target users tend to be more allocentric and perceive less risk in doing their own research. They are excited about going on holiday and for many the holiday experience begins at the planning stage. It’s a lot easier to get feedback from people when the topic excites them.It’s easy to get too comfy with the same research techniques as a user researcher. Quite often that can be usability testing and that can lead to an over-reliance on qualitative data. Having access to the numbers behind the user experience can be a very grounding experience because the things you thought were turning users away in droves often don’t in reality.I’ve come to realise researchers have a tendency to prioritise the obvious issues which happen to the few over the subtle issues which happen to the many. I’ve become much better at my job for having had access to so much data and I’ve been able to realise when I’ve been wrong a lot more which is great for my development.It would be a bit boring if every bit of research I did led to people running around trying to act on every finding that came out of it. Instead it’s good for me to feel that more could be done. A heavy reliance on data here often gets confused with a heavy reliance on numbers. The two aren’t the same and it’s a challenge for me to get people to remember that.My remit when I arrived here was to ‘be David’. It’s unlikely that I’ll ever get a job description as good as that again. Ever. But we were a smaller company at the time and have more than trebled in size since. We need more user researchers now and so the scope of my role might reduce in time.Having some freedom and autonomy is however a very good position for a researcher to be in. Some of my best work has been on things that nobody asked me to do.A good researcher tries to get the project team to understand users rather than simply aiming to become the oracle on the subject. But nonetheless the researcher will see things that the project team don’t or perhaps aren’t immediately interested in. Having some freedom allows you to follow up on some of the things you’ve seen even when nobody else seems to care yet.When the standard of designer in an organisation is quite low then the researcher often needs to go as far as designing things for them. When you are surrounded by good designers, you simply need to help them understand the data and then leave them be to do what they do best.I am very used to hearing and ignoring the phrase “we can’t do that”. But I don’t hear it very often round here. It’s sometimes frustrating how long it takes to hire an engineer here, but the quality is very high for that same reason. People here want to do difficult things, nobody is hiding.Despite us nearing 700 employees, I can still email the CEO with a question or observation and this isn’t because I’m in some sort of privileged position. Anyone here can.Of course some of the CxOs are more responsive than others and you don’t always get a reply. But our teams here are often very focused on the thing they are immediately trying to deliver so when your research throws up something with a bit of a deeper or wider impact then it helps to have avenues available to get these things in front of the people who need to see them.Reading this back it comes across as a recruitment advert. There are still things that annoy me and I often get frustrated. But if I ever think of moving on, I’ll need to assess the next role for some of the stuff I’ve listed above.Let me know what your recipe would be.I help people make stuff easy to use.Thoughts, opinions and insights from the Skyscanner team across Medium

Imagine the scene.I exaggerate, but only a little. The point is that the modern consumer is indifferent to your corporate silos. They want a coherent, engaging and rewarding experience with your brand at I am the first ever Chief Experience Officer (CXO) at BBH.Let’s address the elephant in the room. While CXO roles have existed for a good few years, I have no doubt that there are those who will see it as another example of meaningless job creation that simply adds to the mess of C-suite titles washing around. I do have sympathy for this perspective but, as you might expect, I profoundly disagree with it.Our industry creates beautiful work for our clients. Work that impacts culture and transforms businesses. But beyond advertising, the truth is that so often the experiences we have of brands is a let down.BBH has always believed in the power of difference. The most successful brands don’t just express their difference through advertising, but through every experience they offer — from the store, to customer service, to internal culture, to innovative new products and services. BBH London has been rapidly evolving over the last few years into a multi-disciplinary creative business, with many routes to building powerful brands and many forms of creative expression alongside advertising.So in a creative agency, the role of the CXO is to develop and champion our capability to orchestrate how brands differentiate and connect across every touchpoint, applying our expertise to create a holistic, end-to-end brand experience that anticipates and responds to changing customer needs and emerging technologies.My focus as a user experience practitioner, particularly in the last few years, has been to understand the challenges that our clients’ businesses face, identifying the pain points where they need support and guiding them through enormous changes in the way their customers are engaging with their brands.I have an enduring curiosity for brand experience design and a fascination with the endlessly evolving technology landscape. Together, they have led me to a couple of conclusions.First, creating a brilliant customer experience for a brand should be in every employee’s job description.Second, while the ability of great advertising to engage people at scale, puncture culture and generate fame is still a critical part of the mix, having a CXO at the top table, with the right attitude and set of skills, can open up a world of possibilities, liberating creativity and difference far beyond advertising.Marketing RD, playing at the intersection of technology, culture and brand behaviour Part of BBH | 

Dear Mr. Parashar,I’m writing to you because I’m incredibly excited about your company’s product and potential. That being said, I also see some major problems in execution.But, The last two problems are much more concerning, and not because they’re insurmountable, but rather because you’re not even planning on surmounting them.Both problems stated in CNN’s article highlight how you seem to be de-prioritizing partnerships with major credit card companies and merchants. This quote troubled me the most:What this quote tells me is that you’re not designing your product for the whole experience. You may be focused on the consumer side, but your consumers will all be using your products with, guess who? Merchants. Many of which will turn Coin down as a valid method of payment, in turn making your customers feel dumb and like they wasted their money.As a product manager and former retail employee, I urge you to reevaluate your risks and assumptions, and design Coin to deliver an amazing experience to both consumers and businesses. Your users will love you for it, and Coin’s success will be that much greater.Product Lead 

When you really think about, the element that is key to all technology is whether it empowers the user to do something more efficiently, more creatively, more expressively, and just plain better. Imagine a history running from Gutenberg’s printing press to Job’s Macintosh and you can imagine a stream of innovation that has empowered humankind with tools that extend their hands and minds. We all know a good app when we try one that makes our lives better in some way and preferably empowers us to “be a better me”. This is in large part what we’re talking about on our home page with “helping people be smarter, live well, and have fun”. Don’t forget, having fun can be hard work, especially if you have kids of varying ages. Another function that I like is removing unnecessary routine from people’s lives which is well expressed in a recent Atlantic Magazine But what is the place of the user experience designer in this picture? I mean, aren’t inventors, programmers, engineers and other technologists mainly responsible for empowering people? Admittedly, in some cases it may be true. For example, the invention of a shoe string solution that solves a lead users problem, but what about that killer app for the rest of us. That is what Apple is known for doing so well that it’s cliche for even mentioning it. The Cupertino guys bundle functionality with the right interface that people gain real utility from the iPhone, iMac and Apple TV. They KNOW user experience is key to empowering people. It’s not just about looking good but about anticipating the needs, motivations and engagement of users before even bringing technology into the world.Another more recent example is the soon to be released bluetooth device and iOS app called Tile is great because it solves the problem of forgetfulness and empowers people by helping them avoid losing a kid or two. But what about something as simple as choosing a wine? Our agency iiD was excited to help Gallo Family Vineyards solve the problem of how to help unsavvy wine drinkers (myself included) choose the right wine. This might be easy for the sommeliers in the room but for the rest of us, we simply lack the experience and know-how to pick that perfect wine for that perfect evening. We began our process by researching the possible user scenarios in choosing wines. By considering a variety of “wine moments” we came up with highly useful tools for transitioning wine drinkers to choose wines by type, taste, food, recipe, and occasion. We created an interface that had an app-like appeal, encouraging users to try a variety of different filters to decide on the right wine. Not to mention people can have an engaging experience with the brand. Feel free to The Gallo wine tools empowered people to make the right decision on what wine to drink, without having to get sommelier certified. Not life saving but certainly a nice thing to have in the world for those of us who like drinking. So ask yourself, what other user experiences have changed the ways you do things for the better? And just as important what situations in life are lacking the right user experience to help you get over hurdles. The more you look at it this way, user experience design is everywhere around us from the way bus stop signs are situated to the checkout counter at Safeway. UX designers can hold their heads up high. And with empowerment as one of our main goals for our design, we can really make a difference.by we create awesome user experiences that help people be smart, live well, and have fun. articles are written by iiD strategist lance shields.  — 

Over the next three blog posts I will be writing about motion design within interaction through:Interaction design and motion design converse through thinking in “time” to benefit the overall user experience. Motion Design helps enhance communication throughout the design thinking process from the rapid prototyping of scenarios and interfaces to final coded interface animations. Motion is a fundamental element of user experience design because its the emotional reaction and vitality of the product. It gives non verbal communication to the user; it is the body language of a product.These 3 products have the same layout, visual style, and are starting and ending on the same states, but they all feel different. Motion design is making the difference. Its through motion where you can influence the overall brand experience of a product, to set it apart from the market. Motion can make complex interactions simple and turn good designs into memorable user experiences. I believe its important to prototype motion as soon as possible, whether it be through the storytelling of a service or the interactions on screens. By prototyping motion through coding, after effects, service role play, however; you can add to the quality of experience by thinking within time and not static materials. Overall interactions aren’t static so why are we designing through static mediums?Product Designer 

If you’re a designer, you may remember fondly the good old days of art school, when you were often expected to put your work up for review by instructors and peers alike. For many of us, this was the most worrisome of all tests. Our work was being analyzed by the most savvy of audiences. Poor choices were immediately brought to light in a way that none of your non-designer associates could see or adequately explain — but so were your successes. Sometimes you felt great when the critique was over and sometimes you didn’t, but that was the crucible in which your skill as a designer was truly forged.After design school, this changed for a lot of us. You still had someone to explain your designs to, but your non-client audience was probably an art director, a creative director or members of your project team. And that wasn’t a bad thing, but it wasn’t the same either. Those people were all as close to your project as you were and, being so close, prone to being attached to its direction or potentially slow to recognize what was going well or going wrong. At the end of a project, maybe you were left thinking, “I feel like this could be better, but I can’t put my finger on it and I’ve run out of time to figure it out.” For a designer, this is a horrible feeling, and one that can stick with you for as long as the design exists in the wild.We were recently discussing this in a design team meeting, and we figured out this doesn’t really need to be the case. We all know working in silos isn’t the answer, so why should we limit our critical thinking to only the projects we are working on? Why can’t we return to the old ways of art school and actively solicit feedback from everyone? We decided we could still have that sense of community in our design, and that we would even enjoy it. So we went for it.We set aside one of our many big whiteboards and invited project groups to print out their work and tape it up on the board. Without the need to call a meeting and cut into anyone’s day, designers passing by could stop and write comments about the designs on the whiteboard as they had the time. The original designer wouldn’t be around to defend it (which sounded scary at first), but after a few days they could collect all that feedback and see if their design was what they believed it to be.Weaknesses were quickly surfaced. Strengths were identified. New ideas were generated. Doubt was eliminated and confidence was fostered in a way that could only happen in an open critique, because these other designers weren’t drinking the project Kool-Aid and they weren’t under pressure. It was just like art school — everything was illuminated.There is no doubt that making the open critique activities part of our culture and Recently, during an executive presentation to one of our clients, we informed them that the final designs were coming to them thoroughly whetted by the trained eyes of about 45 of our designers. The very idea of having the input of several designers — not just the dedicated team working on that project — was extremely appealing and reassuring to them, and was received very positively.Internally, we see the open critique activities evolving into an essential So what started as an experiment reminiscent of the good old days of art school has resulted in a significant cultural shift. We are getting so much more out of this effort than we hoped and it’s getting better every day. So if you’re feeling angst as a designer who has become too close to your work and you wonder if the other people attached to your project have the same doubts, then we hope you’ll consider a culture of open critique. Relive the feeling of being in school again every day in all the most positive ways.This article first appeared on the EffectiveUI is the go-to UX partner for high-technology companies, including industry leaders within aerospace and aviation, biotech and healthcare, consumer and industrial electronics, defense, energy, financial services, software and telecom. In making technology more useful, useable and desirable, we help our clients reinvent significant aspects of their business — from the experience they provide to customers, to the tools used to streamline operations, to the products brought to market. We work collaboratively with clients to solve complex business problems and drive transformation through four tightly integrated areas of expertise: user research and insight, digital strategy, UX design and UI development and integration. Learn more at effectiveui.com.The UX-Focused Technology Agency™

Think about the last time you ate at a restaurant. What cuisine did it serve?What made you to choose that particular restaurant? What was your first impression as you walked in? Were you asked to wait till you were ushered to an available seat? How was the menu arranged? Did food come quickly enough? How did it taste? How was the customer service? Did your squaring up go smoothly? Would you go back again?Your answers to these questions, including all the emotional highs and lows, encompass the restaurant’s user experience (UX).However, when people use the term UX, they’re usually referring to one’s experience with a digital or technological product or service. The implication is that the user’s experience has been designed and is, at least potentially, further designable.Today, UX has grown into an important design discipline that continues to grow and evolve. And while it’s fairly new, its multidisciplinary history can be traced all the way back to the Renaissance — if not earlier.To think about where the much debated-practice of user experience design will take us next, it’ll help to take a look back at some of the key events in its meandering evolution.Michael Gelb’s wonderful book “How to Think like Leonardo da Vinci” recounts the story of the Duke of Milan commissioning da Vinci to design the kitchen for a high-profile feast. The great Maestro took the job on with his usual inventive flair. In what is considered the first use of the technology (hundreds of years before the Industrial Revolution) da Vinci designed and employed conveyor belts to transport food items to the preparers. He also built what is likely the first sprinkler system for safety measures.Comically, however, the conveyer belts operated too erratically for the workers and — to make matters worse — the sprinkler system went off, ruining some of the food.While this particular case was a disaster, it’s an early story that bears the trace of user experience design practices to come.Frederick Winslow Taylor, a mechanical engineer and one of the first management consultants, authored “The Principles of Scientific Management,” a widely influential study of engineering efficiency. Along with Henry Ford’s pioneering mass-production techniques, Taylor and his supporters shaped the early vision of what interactions between laborers and their tools should be like.While Toyota, like Ford, valued efficiency in engineering and production, it also sought its employees input. The assembly workers’ contributions were valued greatly — almost as much as the technologies used. The roaring success that Toyota experienced as a result brought new attention to the role of human interaction with technology.Henry Dreyfuss, an American industrial designer, wrote the classic text “Designing for People.”In it, he writes:When the point of contact between the product and the people becomes a point of friction, then the industrial designer has failed.On the other hand, if people are made safer, more comfortable, more eager to purchase, more efficient — or just plain happier — by contact with the product, then the designer has succeeded.These principles, which include today’s oft-invoked concept of delight, have only grown more relevant as the points of contact between product and person proliferate.In a very early-stage announcement of what would later become Disney World, Walt Disney described the project as “always in the state of becoming, a place where the latest technology can be used to improve the lives of people.” His imaginative use of technology to bring people joy continues to inspire user experience designers.Xerox’s famous research arm, PARC, gave form and function to the design of computers for human use. Bob Taylor, a trained psychologist and engineer, led his team in building some of the most important and enduring tools of human-computer interaction, including the graphical user interface (GUI) and the mouse.An electrical engineer and cognitive scientist by trade, Don Norman joined Apple to help with the research and design of its upcoming line of human-centered products. He asked to be called “User Experience Architect,” marking the first use of the term in a job title.By this time Don Norman had also written his classic book, “The Design of Everyday Things,” which championed design for usability and functionality rather than aesthetics. It remains hugely influential for designers today.Steve Jobs unveiled the iPhone at MacWorld 2007, calling it a “leapfrog product” that promised to be far easier to use than any other smartphone on the market. Not only did it deliver on its promise, but it changed the landscape of mobile devices forever, catapulting Apple into its current position as one of the world’s most successful companies.The genius of the original iPhone, arguably, lay in its fusion of superior hardware and software to provide connectivity through a revolutionary capacitive touchscreen, making the physical keyboards of other phones obsolete. Put more simply, it provided a user experience far superior to that of any other contemporary phone.And this inadvertently led to current business focus on user experience. If Apple’s emphasis on delivering great user experiences was winning them market success and critical accolades, others wanted in on it too.Every major milestone in the evolution of UX has involved an interaction between technology and human beings. As technology and the internet continue to weave themselves into our lives, we can expect to see UX continue to evolve. This will bring to light the need for more specialized skills in the multidisciplinary practice, including user research, graphic design, customer advocacy, software development, and more. In fact, The internet is no longer confined to our laptops or smartphones — wearables and even implantables can now put is in a state of constant communication. This presents opportunities for user experience professionals to design interactions that transcend form factors with the ultimate purpose of improving people’s lives.So whether you’re a da Vinci or a Ford, a Dreyfuss or a Disney, a Taylor or a Jobs, it looks like you’ll have plenty of opportunities to bring the world better user experiences.ReferencesBuley, Leah. The User Experience Team of One: A Research and Design Survival Guide. Rosenfeld, 2013 Gelb, Michael. How to Think Like Leonardo da Vinci: Seven Steps to Genius Every Day. Dell, 2001. Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

Pagination recently came up in a conversation surrounding a task-oriented interface. Currently we are allowing the users to simply page forward and backward through the list using next and previous buttons.Whether to add it or not seemed fairly straightforward, but once we dug deeper, all sorts of more complicated questions arose.As always, I proposed a user-case test as a way to try and answer the question. Figuring out how a user might use the information presented is a tried and true method for deciding how to create hierarchies, layouts, and what functionality to allow a user access to.So, which way do we think that the user is going to use the information?We decided that the user is probably going to want to deal with tasks as they come. Putting pagination in the interface wouldn’t be a big advantage, and would add unneeded complexity into an already complex UI.User Experience development is really a balancing game between a few core gravitational centers: Business Case, Informational Needs, and User Needs. What we do as designers is try to find a way to present information in a sensible way which also meets financial goals. Defining who your users are, using personas, helps make those decisions. You try and a maximize functionality while streamlining how things work.Sometimes it’s a guessing game which only A/B testing can resolve. There are so many variables at play that actually knowing for certain what is the right choice can be a losing proposition.That being said, I do believe we’re the experts and that its our job to define what is best for users. You can’t make everybody happy all the time. It’s just a fact of life. As designers it’s always our goal to maximize the percentage of users we build for who we can make happy. There will simply always be a minority of use-cases where our solution is not optimal.The question whether or not to add functionality is a hard one. On the one hand, functionality makes the application you build more rich and more valuable. It should be an obvious plus. But often after adding many layers of functionality what you end up with is a hugely feature-rich application which is incredibly complex and hard to use because it is never obvious what to do or how to do it.Adding in maximum functionality can be confusing as it makes for complex user-interfaces which are good for the minority but not so good for the majority.Over the years I’ve come to the conclusion that we should be treating the user-experience itself as the core feature of an app. We should always be asking ourselves if the added functionality we are creating is going to impact that core feature. Will the majority of users use that feature? If so, then maybe that balance is worthwhile. Is it a nice minority feature? If so, maybe we should not add it.I always prefer to cut features which the minority use in favor of a simpler interface which the majority is happy with.Most of all, I’d like to underline the need for designers to trust their basic intuition, but to test their assumptions with hard data. Your ideas entirely subjective and have to be help up to the harsh light of objectivity.Find out for sure who your majority is, and craft your experience to fit their needs.Like this article? Come read more at UI/UX and web designer from Tel Aviv, IsraelWe are a growing community of interested and curious designers, developers, sales professionals, and UX engineers. We are having conversations about Freelancing, Design, Modern Development Practices, Client Interaction, and Growing your Business.

L’expérience utilisateur, c’est la manière dont un utilisateur perçoit le service dans sa globalité. Une bonne expérience utilisateur doit induire une propension à utiliser durablement le service, voire à contribuer à son évolution. A l’inverse, une mauvaise expérience fait « fuir le client ». L’enjeu est donc de taille car la qualité de l’expérience utilisateur détermine la cristallisation et le développement d’une relation de service.Il ne faut pas s’imaginer que la technique fait tout. L’offre logicielle fourmille d’anecdotes d’expériences utilisateur désastreuses alors que les solutions logicielles étaient pourtant techniquement très performantes. Et, cela ne se limite pas aux logiciels. De nombreux produits ont connu le même sort, dans le monde de l’automobile, par exemple, où des véhicules très innovants ont été rejetés par les utilisateurs. Autre exemple, les parfums BIC. Fort de sa réussite avec le jetable (rasoirs et briquets), le baron Bic a lancé une ligne de parfum dans le même esprit, c’est-à-dire avec des flacons jetables. L’échec fut immédiat malgré la qualité des parfums. La dégradation de l’image “luxe” du parfum en l’associant au jetable a provoqué un rejet de cette offre pourtant excellente sous son aspect “qualité/prix”.La qualité technique d’un service ne garantit donc en rien la valeur positive de l’expérience utilisateur. Par contre, c’est une condition nécessaire car l’insuffisance technique génère à coup sûr une expérience utilisateur négative.En fait, pour comprendre la nature, la logique et la « mécanique » de l’expérience utilisateur, il faut abandonner le point de vue que deux siècles de logique industrielle nous ont inculqué. Le monde industriel fonctionne en priorité sur la technique. Une branche industrielle, c’est une filière technologique, c’est l’affirmation d’un savoir-faire technique, etc. Autrement dit, nous héritons d’une vision « centrée » offreurs. C’est pourquoi, lorsqu’un technicien juge que la technique au cœur d’un produit ou d’un service est bonne, il interprète l’échec sur le marché comme le signe d’une nullité du consommateur : « tous des cons » !Mais, le monde change et de nouvelles manières de voir émergent. Aujourd’hui, ce qui est décisif pour une offre, c’est le service effectivement rendu. Le service effectivement rendu par une automobile concerne à la fois le confort, l’agrément de conduite, le plaisir (le fameux bruit de la fermeture des portes), le positionnement social, l’adaptation au besoin de mobilité, l’adaptation à la diversité des utilisateurs (par exemple au sein d’une famille), la simplicité et le coût de l’entretien, la fiabilité mécanique, etc. La primauté du service effectivement rendu concerne aujourd’hui l’ensemble des offres. Au delà des offres marchandes, c’est également vrai pour les services publics ou les services associatifs. Elle traduit concrètement l’entrée de notre société et de notre économie dans un monde serviciel, qui succède à l’univers industriel.Aujourd’hui, le test utilisateur fondé sur un solide protocole est le moyen incomparable de mesurer la valeur réelle du service effectivement rendu à l’utilisateur. En effet, l’expression de cette valeur est, par nature, très complexe car issue de « l’alchimie », de la synthèse de ces multiples variables. Certes, des méthodes complémentaires peuvent venir compléter et enrichir le test. Mais, la pertinence de la mesure dépend avant tout de la prise en compte équilibrée de la multitude des variables et cela, seul le test « réel » permet de le faire.Pourquoi fait-on aujourd’hui une grande affaire de l’expérience utilisateur ? Pourquoi se focalise-t-on sur le numérique ? Cela résulte de la conjonction de deux phénomènes. En premier lieu, cet engouement traduit l’émergence de la priorité donnée au service effectivement rendu dans notre société. Autrement dit, cela résulte d’une rupture dans les usages, la mutation de notre système socioéconomique générant de nouveaux usages. En second lieu, nous sommes confrontés à un nouveau champ d’usages avec le web. La numérisation du monde fait que, quel que soit le domaine, l’intermédiation du numérique et du web s’impose. Notre société est donc entrée dans une phase d’apprentissage intensif des pratiques du numérique. Et, cet apprentissage concerne les offreurs autant que les utilisateurs. Il faut maîtriser les pratiques qui donnent accès à des services toujours plus nombreux. Il faut aussi que les offreurs arrivent à trouver le « langage » qui sera facilement accessible pour l’utilisateur. On perçoit bien en quoi la prise en compte de l’expérience utilisateur est précieuse dans ce contexte. Cependant, il faut prendre garde à ne pas perdre de vue la globalité de la question posée à propos de l’expérience utilisateur.Une interface peut avoir une bonne qualité design et de fluidité technique sans pour autant rendre un service réel. C’est le cas par exemple d’une « appli » météo très facile d’utilisation, qui apporte de magnifiques courbes de la pluviométrie mais qui n’est pas capable de répondre aux questions simples que se pose l’utilisateur telles que C’est le cas d’un volet numérique de e-commerce très fluide, rapide, sécurisé, etc. mais qui n’est pas accompagné d’un choix de produits adaptés et/ou d’une qualité de livraison de bon niveau.On perçoit bien que l’analyse de l’expérience utilisateur a trois dimensions. Seule la prise en compte de ces trois dimensions apporte l’information nécessaire pour mesurer la pertinence stratégique du service. Or, dans un monde marqué par la vitesse de l’évolution, par l’interdépendance de très nombreux facteurs et par l’incertitude, la question de la pertinence stratégique d’une offre se repose chaque matin que « Dieu fait ».Encore une fois, on constate que la qualité d’une réponse est d’abord déterminée par la qualité d’une question. Un test utilisateur qui ne s’interroge que sur la qualité design d’une interface ne peut pas nous donner une vision claire de la valeur d’une offre de service. Cela peut même générer des décisions erronées.Seules la richesse et la diversité des informations fournies par le test peuvent permettre d‘évaluer chacun des trois niveaux et donc la valeur de l’expérience utilisateur du service rendu.“La meilleure façon de prédire le futur est de l’inventer” — Alan Kay (1971)

(And the User Feedback Cycle.)It all started with a tweet by Jokes aside, this is Enter user feedback: the land of insights we didn’t necessarily ask for but got anyway. It’s the land that we all have to cross before we get to launch. Because if you launch before going through the motions, that will cost you and it could kill your product.So let’s try and cross that land together.If you’re not collecting user feedback, you are missing a huge opportunity for growth — both personal and professional. Those who skip this step usually end up releasing a buggy app or Let’s just assume you’ve built an MVP and you’re ready to test it. You have a list of subscribers (if not, Most founders just install a survey widget on their apps: Nope. I’d say there’s Those of you who are thinking long-term know that — especially at the beginning — user feedback has its own cycle. It’s not enough to smack something on your app and pray for instant gratification. Or to email thousands of people with a request and wait for the feedback to rain.Most of the time people don’t respond to general requests. If you want really good feedback, you have to work at getting it, meaning you need to direct your users and ask the right questions. Yes, like the sheep.However, you must avoid “selective questioning” at all costs. If you ask certain questions and avoid others, you’re guiding the answers, which means you’re still building the product you want to build, not the one your users want to use.So how can we make sure we get the right feedback and lots of it?I’ve always liked this visualization based on Whether you call it a So I borrowed this from And then ask more questions, more users, etc. The cycle can go on and on forever, until there are no complaints and no bugs to fix. Only then have you done your best to improve your product.Sure. ☺When we first talked about collecting feedback with my co-founder — This is the page that asks our users to register for the beta. As you can see, they’re required to choose one of three ways to give us feedback: in Slack, via email, and over Skype. We wanted to be thorough and give them options, which paid back big time. In a matter of days we got feedback over Slack and the widget, and we get to send the emails today, which means more feedback!I think in this way everyone is happy — we get feedback from various sources and our users get to choose the way we bug them.If you’re still asking this question, here are a few benefits of feedback:So it solves a few problems that have made a lot of startups fail. For example, the classic “I made this because I think people need it but actually nobody does” or the “I thought my product was perfect for these people but they’re not really interested”, and so on.Nobody likes to be challenged. I don’t particularly look forward to being proven wrong every day, but this is the price I pay for wanting toIf you want to do the same, you’ll have to be ready for:This is all super constructive and has helped us — at I can’t wait to see what will become of our little app. In my dreams, I see it big and so helpful that everyone is using it to improve their meetings. But before we get there, we need to see how our users see it.*Writes a lot. Articles that could help your startup grow.

In the 5th week of General Assembly UXDI, a small team was given a big problem.We continue to see a growing trend of people cooking at home rather than dining out, yet recent news reports estimate that AmericansThat is equivalent to buying 4 bags of groceries, What can be done to ACCORDING to Ted Allen, cookbook author and host of American TV show Chopped;“The Foundation’s initiatives are dedicated to exploring the ways in which The James Beard Foundation is a charity organization well connected within the food industry, with a core mission of educating the public on nutritious and sustainable eating.Already at the forefront of consumer responsibility in the consumption of food, and with a large and respected catalog of chef-curated recipes, The James Beard Foundation would be the perfect organization to address this impending problem.And,Currently, The Foundation TIMING: 10 DaysGUIDELINES: Human Interface Guideline (HIG) Standards  Usability HeuristicsI thought that if I understood which of the Foundation’s programs provided the most revenue, I could design a donation ask or prompt, once the user has adopted the app.A review of the financial statements from the previous two years indicated that events and awards brought in the most revenue, as compared to individual and sponsor contributions and different membership tiers.This meant that once the user had been acquired, the business In order to understand how other notable foundations fulfill their brand’s mission while also reaching business goals, I analyzed the ways, and areas of the Feeding America’s user flows showed us that Through this analysis of other charitable organizations,, I came across the The If I were to introduce a ‘donate’ feature during the I looked at competitor apps, which included Epicurious, FridgeCheck, Whole Foods, All Recipes, Food Network, and BASED on these competitors, I pulled out which features might differentiate us from existing applications.The competitor user flows showed me that other than FridgeCheck, I had started to formulate a better idea of the food industry, the business, and the competitive landscape for The Foundation iOS application.It was time to empathize.Now I wanted to understand what users were I began the process of understanding the motivations for our “at-home chefs” through an online survey.This survey not only helped collect quantitative data, but it acted as a screener, by identifying respondents that I could conduct 1:1 interviews and more in-depth user analysis with.What I learned through the responses of our survey validated the opportunity — I could focus on a mobile iOS app with a search feature that would allow users to find James Beard Foundation recipes based on ingredients they already had.I wanted to understand a person’s motivations for cooking at home. What were their habits and behaviors? Were they experiencing any pains? Any pleasures?I created a series of interview questions to get our interviewees talking aboutDuring our in-depth interviews, users said:These quotes, and others, lead to more interesting findings. Users were searching for nutritious recipes, delicious recipes, and recipes based on ingredients they already had in their kitchen.What our research process needed wasOne of my interviewees agreed to let me watch and record them while they were at home during dinner looking for a meal to make. This contextual interview lead to additional findings and feature considerations.By affinity mapping the survey responses, in-person interviews  contextual inquires into pains, pleasures, behaviors and motivations, I identified 3 personas.The personas were distinguished by a series of defining characteristics.2. Nutritious Nancy needed a recipe’s nutritional information up-front — and she would also like to search recipes by her dietary restrictions.3. Lastly, Sustainable Sally’s behavior indicates that she would first grocery shop for ingredients she is familiar with, and then only afterwards search for a recipe. She also needed simple to follow and low level of difficulty recipes.In order to identify the needs, emotional touch points, long-term benefits, and potential features for the users through each stage of the user flow — I created a high-level user journey.Sustainable Sally is at an The user journey also runs against the I decided to use the MOSCOW method in order to determine which features I must include, should include, could include, and would not include.While keeping research findings, personas and the user journey in mind, rapid sketching helped tease out different design solutions.It was important to keep this phrase in mind while moving into design.Content was of course important to consider — how a user would swipe, our important category filter at the top (main ingredient), highlighted or colored text for our important buttons, and beautiful imagery. It was the context that was I also needed to adhere to UI Guidelines and most importantly, iOS HIG standards.SCENARIO: Sally went grocery shopping last week. Earlier this week, she cooked a few things she knew how to make, but now that it’s the end of the week, her She decided to do a Google search online to find a way to use her ingredients, but it was difficulty to sort through recipes based on the ingredients she had. That’s when she saw that the James Beard Foundation had just released a new app. She saw that it could generate recipes based off of ingredients, so sheI centered testing around the recipe filter page — as this was the page that was most important for the users to find intuitive to use. Throughout testing, I went through a series of iterations, which was extremely beneficial to the betterment of our design.As each project continues to teach me — design is not good until tested. Through various rounds of testing, I uncovered more roadblocks and pain points we would have not seen had our prototype not been put in the hands of our users.Consumer responsibility in the way of food consumption is a challenge with a vast amount of potential solutions. Due to this, I noticed a Design is a continuous and iterative process. Welcome interruptions, because this can at times produce creative and unexpected solutions.UX Architect @ Critical Mass + Southeast Asia Explorer + GA Alum

Many of us are familiar with a request to justify any project from the return on investment (ROI) perspective.Metrics are an important topic when it comes to customer experience (CX). They identify the value of good CX and provide a quantitative foundation for CX efforts to compete for funding with other areas of the business.Last time Below you will find 12 more.========================================CEO 

By “There are only patterns, patterns on top of patterns, patterns that affect other patterns. Patterns hidden by patterns. Patterns within patterns. If you watch close, history does nothing but repeat itself.” This quote comes from author Chuck Palahniuk’s novel User Interface patterns (UI) are common best practices that serve as a reusable solution to a frequently occurring problems. Over time, users acclimate to these patterns and can even grow to expect them. Herein lies the issue. If a pattern becomes ubiquitous with a certain task, the user experience can be hindered if the pattern is not present or a suitable replacement is not offered.As user experience designers, we need to keep up with these trends and patterns. However, it is not enough to just recognize and utilize them, but we must also understand the implications associated as well.In this post, we will explore the following common UI patterns for further examples:Inline validation is when information is entered by the user, typically into a form field, is inspected and validated before the user hits the call-to-action button. The user receives immediate feedback if her input is incorrect before she moves on to the next field.Take a look at the Facebook sign up form below. Jane missed the required email input field. But lucky for her, she did not have to hit the “sign up” button before noticing her mistake. Instead, Facebook stopped her right away so that she knew exactly where and why the error occurred. Facebook not only flagged the error, but provided helpful text explaining why the field is important and beneficial to the user.When forms are validated in real-time, it allows users to complete the task quickly, with less effort, and fewer errors. The combination of these three elements results in greater overall user satisfaction.Infinite scroll is when more content automatically loads as the user reaches the bottom of a page. Think Pinterest, Twitter, or Google images.There is less effort and precision required to scroll than there is to click. An infinite scroll is also a great mechanism for retaining user attention because there is less distracting navigation. Infinite scroll is an extremely useful UI pattern when there is a lot of content to present, like social media sites or search results.The presence of this UI pattern on some of the largest and most popular websites increases the likelihood that the majority of users have knowledge of the pattern’s existence. When that knowledge exists, and the user has a navigational expectation, a site that utilizes pagination instead can feel laborious in comparison.Clean, simple, and sleek are great descriptors of popular websites today. A clean and simple interface can easily be bogged down and cluttered by a plethora of controls that take away from the content itself. Enter, hover controls. These are content specific controls that appear only when needed (think Harry Potter’s Room of Requirement).Hover controls are not only utilized to minimize page clutter, but they also help clarify implications of given actions. A user knows with great certainty that if she clicks the “send” button on the photo below, the action will only pertain to the content in the hover state. Here, the user experience is more powerful because ambiguity is decreased and therefore sets the user at ease.Allowing objects on an interface to be manipulated and rearranged by dragging is a popular interface pattern because it is easy to understand and visually mimics how a user conceptualizes organization.You may be thinking this feels more like an interaction than a UI pattern but that is where you’re wrong. The UI pattern here provides visual feedback to support the interaction.For example, when you click and hold on a radio station in iTunes Radio the image grows in size and the opacity of the object changes slightly. This indicates that the state of the object has changed and can be further manipulated. The user then gets another clue as she explores the interaction. When she drags the image slightly in one direction, the objects around it animates and shifts based on the location of the mouse. These slight animations and UI changes, clue the user into the interaction.There is no need for a tutorial. This is a common and expected UI pattern that many users will pick up quickly or even come to expect. The UI patterns support and enhance complex interactionsWhile these are but four UI patterns demonstrating the importance of repetition and expectation to user experience, the digital world is chuck full of endless examples. Keep exploring and identifying these patterns and then utilize them appropriately in your designs. Remember, the world is made up of patterns and it your job to make sense of them.GA transforms thinkers into creators through education and opportunities in tech, business, and design.Latest stories in the growing field of UX Design

By Design aligns humans and technology, it aligns business and engineering, it aligns digital and physical, and it aligns business needs and user needs. Here at O’Reilly, we’re fascinated by the design space, and we’re launching several initiatives focused on the experience design community.Design is both the disruptor and being disrupted. It’s disrupting markets, organizations, and relationships, and forcing us to rethink how we live. The discipline of design is also experiencing tremendous growth and change, largely influenced by economic and technology factors. No longer an afterthought, design is now an essential part of a product, and it may even be the most important part of a product’s value.The latest There are two areas where this notion of design creating value resonates: in the emerging space of the You can also stay in the loop on our latest analysis and coverage through our weekly design newsletter. The IoT, with its massive data sets, remote, and — in some cases — autonomous control, promiscuous connectivity, and ubiquitous sensors, requires designers to completely rethink interfaces. This represents a bigger change for designers than iterations from print to web and web to mobile. Whether you’re an interaction designer, UX designer, visual designer, or an industrial designer, if you’re working in — or even near — the IoT space, your role and responsibilities are undergoing a transformation.We’re in the midst of what Andy Huntington calls the I see plenty of experimentation in IoT design as engineers and designers come together to identify products that go beyond what customers think they need to what they want. Successful companies like IoT is also changing how designers are perceived and what is expected of them. Claire Rowland The convergence of the physical and digital requires different groups coming together to solve real human problems. In addition to hardware and software engineers, industrial designers, interaction designers, visual designers, and user researchers all need to collaborate. To realize the promise of IoT, teams of designers, product managers, and engineers need to take on the hard problems — In the digital world, poor design decisions cause annoyance or frustration, such as waiting for a web page to load or having to re-enter your password multiple times. In the physical world, the consequences of poor design are far more obvious and significant. What happens if your smoke detector sets itself off in error, or your lights are delayed in turning on upon arriving home? A recent example is For many years, interaction designers have focused on a single user using a single device. IoT shifts designers to think in terms of context and connected worlds. User experience grows beyond a one-to-one relationship to become a web of touchpoints and conversations. Devices pull, digest, and process data to serve us in ways we may not recognize or understand. The best smart devices and apps provide users with the types of inputs that help augment decision making by combining the heavy burden of processing, and summarizing massive stores of sensor data with machine learning that improves results based on analyzing collective behavior. The design of everyday things has never been more challenging and exciting. In his book Organizations that value design and treat it as a corporate asset increase their odds of success. Conversely, organizations that minimize design’s impact and continue to treat it as an adjacent activity will fail.Need proof?If companies know that design drives innovation and increases profit, why aren’t all organizations embracing design as a core business asset? The simple answer is: it’s hard. Those who believe in design’s power to transform business results know that it’s difficult to make cultural changes to an organization, which is precisely the kind of shift required for design to become part of a company’s fabric. Just ask IBM, which is While many startups have embraced design, integrating design in an established enterprise can be far more complicated. In some companies, there are product managers who facilitate the collaboration. In other cases, consultants are brought in to lead this facilitation. Many companies are in the early stages of figuring out how to align business and design to create better products and services for their customers.A growing number of companies make design a core cultural attribute and use design to develop products and services that customers need and love. Uber offers another example. Aaron Levie of Box.net Companies such as Airbnb and Uber treat design not as a feature but as intrinsic to the product or service they are trying to sell. They use design to create a natural, almost intangible coherence that makes users more comfortable and more willing to spend their time and money.Design and business degree programs are also being challenged to change. Stanford’s Data-driven thinking is already an essential part of successful businesses, and now it’s expanding its influence to guide design groups as well. Years back, Google was viewed as pushing data driven a little too far with the notorious story of 41 Finally, the successful organizations of tomorrow will embed design in their DNA if venture capitalists have anything to say about it. In recent years, VCs have hired designers as partners. Most recently, John Maeda, former president of the Rhode Island School of Design, In the coming months, I’ll be exploring the future of design, the changing role of designers, and how design is shaping our lives in new and different ways. We have a lot planned, so we hope you’ll come along as we dig into these fascinating spaces.I’m also interested in knowing what you see and think. If you’re a designer, how are you building your skill set? How is design viewed within your company? What’s your take on the Internet of Things? If you’re in a large corporation or a startup, how are you leveraging design? If you’re involved with education and training, how is your curriculum changing to address the growing demand for designers? Share your thoughts with me on Twitter at Insight, analysis, and research about emerging technologies from O’Reilly Media. Emerging technology insights and analysis from radar.oreilly.com

User Experience (UX) is a purpose driven discipline. One that UX professionals, marketers, advertisers, designers, developers, writers, strategists and producers alike may use to craft experiences that improve our quality of life.In this series of posts, I will present five ways to strategically rely on UX to design better products, services and systems, ultimately building these revolutionary experiences. But, before we begin, we must first adopt an understanding of UX as a purpose driven discipline (hence this prologue).My favorite definition of the craft comes from Whitney Hess — a user experience coach, writer and speaker. She defines UX as the following:Hess breaks down walls that previously confined UX to just wireframes and expands the definition to include improving the quality of human life as a whole.So what is this customers’ — or users’ — perspective that Hess mentions?As humans we play many different roles when interacting with technology and brands at large. We are customers, users, players, participants, and viewers. Yet, above all of those roles, we are human beings.So, instead of asking about the customers perspective, let’s reframe the question to include the broader experience. What is the human perspective?To understand the human perspective we have to zoom out far — to the context of humanity.We are here on Earth, in this truly amazing world, floating in the middle of a seemingly endless universe. We are born into this beautiful ecosystem of rivers, oceans, plants, animals and people all flowing elegantly in a natural rhythm.Birth is the beginning of our experience on Earth. This is our first natural experience, interacting with the world around us. Life experience is about feeling the earth in our hands. It’s about feeling the cool water hitting you as you run through the sprinklers on a hot summer day.It’s about getting caught in a storm and pausing to feel the rain as it runs through your hands. It’s about the warmth, security and excitement you feel during your first kiss.It’s about the gentle touch of the person you have chosen as your partner. The person that you will spend this “life experience” discovering with, feeling with, loving with, dying with.Life experience is about the feeling you have, as time is fleeting, in the last precious moment with someone you love.So what do life experience and human perspective have to do with UX?Although we like to think of the human experience as a series of intimate, meaningful, precious and natural moments, life is also made up of designed experiences that make us feel stressed, frustrated, scared and, at times, completely helpless.Traffic is a moment many commuters experience daily.When I was living in L.A., I remember thinking about how much of my life was being wasted while sitting in traffic. During my two hour, two mile commute, I would glance around and see looks of frustration, hopelessness, and loathing on the faces of drivers around me.Do you remember the last time you had to go to the DMV? What did you think, feel, smell, hear, see?Government systems and experiences such as the DMV offer some of the worst moments of the human experience. It is easy to forget that these systems are designed. It is someone’s job to think about the processes, environments, services and products that create government systems and highways.These examples teach us that people are wasting their precious short-lived Experience Designer. Obsessed with creating a better future.Insights, ramblings, musings and other thoughts from the team at Struck (the agency, not the verb)

User Experience and Customer Experience take care of the end user or customer. In such fields, designers push business not to take care only of sales. They push companies to look at the people who use the products and services. That is still a great step for many companies today. These companies have a focus on building amazing products or services. But they forget that it’s people that make the service alive. So User or Customer Experience can be valuable but is not enough. When we focus so much on the customer, we forget about the people who build the service. The people who make the experience human. These are the workers.We see this for example in companies known for their great customer service. Companies like Uber and Apple had in Europe, a few problems with their workers. The company pushes the workers to do their best for the customers. Which in a way is great. But when this becomes extreme these companies create a bad experience for their employees. The recent strikes of the Uber employees in France are rich in learning.The Service Design approach I believe in is an approach that includes all stakeholders. When we design complex services, there are a lot of different people who make it happen. All deserve to have a great experience. Of course, these experiences are all different. Customer experience and employee experience work in different ways. Pushing customer experience and employee satisfaction at the same time may look like contradictory. But humans are not like equations. When you take care of your employees, you do not lower your attention to the customers. In fact, it is the opposite. When employees have great work conditions, they make customers happy more easily. The common industry example for this is Google. Google seems to take care of its employees. For example, they do that by allowing 20% of the work time for personal projects). Google says that the best services they have come out of this culture of taking care. Gmail, for example, started as a side project during the 20% personal time. The Service Design approach goes even further. The equation is not only about including customers and employees.But how do you do this? First, you have to know who are the different humans your company has to take into account. Usually, it is customers, employees and partners. For large b2b companies, things can be more complex. The company sell the service it builds to another company. This other company then uses it for the end customers. You can add as many elements that you want between the end customer and the base company. For these b2b services the mapping of all the different humans can be quiet long. But when you build your service for the whole living ecosystem satisfaction grows. It grows from every side and inspire the other sides. Taking care of the customers creates happier customers. Customers are then less angry with sales people. Also, happy sales people make the customer happy. Satisfied partners are more eager to help your employees during hard times. And this leads to happier employees. And so on.So, for your next project take some time to map all the humans in your ecosystem. That works for simple things like a website or very complex services. You will see that this shift from experience to experiences is a powerful driver of satisfaction.This article was first published on A swiss service designer who thinks that the best hobbie in the world is to help others — catalanotto.ch — shitideas.coTools and methods for designing services

Hi, my name is Adam and I’m a User Experience Designer. My job is to help people create products which other people love. It’s not that easy to introduce this thinking to a company, even if it sounds obvious. I’ll tell you how I try.A lot of folks identify User Experience with “wireframes”: those black-and-white drawings.User Experience is not that.But first and foremost, That’s right, in most of the cases, it’s not your head. This is espeically true if you are a business owner, designer or developer of a technology product.Still, what happens a lot of times, that someone tries to come up with a set of ideas, intended to make the user happy (usually we try to make users happy. Or ourselves happy.)I know what you’re thinking. You might be in one of the following two groups:None of you are necessarily correct: the user is not you. It’s someone else. It’s everyone else, it’s anyone else.The fact is, if you’re involved in a product, you know too much about it. You invest too much emotions into it. It’s your child after all. Or at least, partly your child. You want it to succeed. You want it to contain your funny ideas.User experience starts with watching others. Watching other people going through their days, fighting with their problems or just living their life.But most importantly, watching them while they use your product.Of course, it’s hard to find out what are the You have to ask them to act like you weren’t there and it wasn’t your product. It isn’t about saying nice things to you. ItThis is where User Experience Design starts.UX Designer, Researcher, Software Engineer

by Prototyping and testing is commonly only associated with product development, but it’s actually critical for all aspects of business, particularly at the earliest stages of building a startup.Why prototype?When you prototype, you’re essentially taking all the assumptions you’ve made about your business, developing them into something that can be illustrated and articulated with users, and putting it in front of them for reactions.These can be assumptions about your product concept (product features and functionality), user experience, branding and core messaging, business and pricing model, target market and customers, customer acquisition channels, conversion assumptions, and acquisition costs. And yes, all of these, can be prototyped and tested with users.On the journey to building a full-stack startup — an approach followed by some of today’s most innovative and successful companies — prototyping and early end-user involvement is a key component.How does it impact the full build or full stack? In short, it enables startups to build based on a relationship with the end user and validated assumptions, ultimately saving time and money. Let’s take a few key parts of your business and illustrate:Product is the most obvious benefactor of prototyping. Rather than build everything on day one, why not determine what is truly essential to your users and is going to provide the greatest return on investment early on?Prototyping and testing with users allows you to prioritize features and functionality, and determine what is absolutely necessary for your version 1, and what can be pushed off to version two or even three. In some cases, you may even find that some of your original features will never end up getting built. And that’s okay.By zeroing in on the most critical features, you:One of the biggest mistakes startups make is waiting until their product is built or in development to start thinking about the business and pricing model.These two components almost always affect the functionality and technical infrastructure of a product. You don’t want to determine your pricing model after your product has been built only to find out you have make major foundational changes.Early on, it’s critical to test assumptions about how you will make money, who your buyer is and how much you plan to charge. Are you going to be subscription-based, use a freemium model or generate revenue with in-app purchases? While you may not be able to hone in on specific price-points until you’ve launched your product, you will be able to get a strong sense of your customer’s pricing sensitivity and the reference points they’re using when evaluating your the price of your product.One easy way to start this conversation is by prototyping simple pricing pages that show the pricing model, packages and product price. You’ll gain user feedback, and determine whether they are unwilling to pay or will pay the amount you anticipated. Or you may discover you’re leaving money on the table by not charging as much as you could. Without a relationship with the end customer, it is very difficult to get paid accordingly.What’s more, it’s incredibly challenging to make major pricing changes or change your entire pricing strategy post facto. So save yourself a major headache and test this prior to launch.What do Sandcastles have to do with prototyping? We help innovative people transform great ideas into great businesses through design, user validation, development, branding, and customer acquisition.

I’ve been working on a design technique for visually representing user scenarios for transportation and other mobile experiences. When users are in transit or using a mobile device there is a special relationship with both time and space. Such scenarios and use cases could be modeled with flow charts or swim lanes, but such diagrams do not capture important moments in space and geography. Maps and timelines are a familiar and intuitive and visual element for presenting this information.Before I show an example scenario, I should describe how user scenarios fit in the overall design process.Scenarios design is an activity that often used as part of a user-centered design process. Modeling with scenarios is an early steps in a goal-directed design process, which is explained in After the creating personas for the design problem or domain, scenarios are used to tell a complete story about the ideal user experience and “describe how the persona interacts with the system”. (Cooper, 2007) Scenarios are a powerful modeling tool, allowing the designer to explore the context of user interactions and not lose sight of the broader user goals. It’s a process that has the added benefit of refining the system requirements and often eliciting new system features and requirements.Here’s an example of scenario design in action. What I’ve added to a common scenario sequence is a timeline of the user and system behavior. For the primary persona, I would model several different scenarios. Most scenarios will achieve one of the persona’s goals, but their also could be a sequence for a system failure. Our persona will drive to an appointment in a nearby city. The user is somewhat familiar with the freeway system, but is going to a new destination, in a busy part of the city.The primary persona is a frequent traveler in the same geographic region. The user likes to feel productive while driving. It is a time of day when she plans, thinks, and would like to communicate, when it is safe and legal. She used to enjoy driving but has grown to strongly dislike commuting during the work week.The following are some of the user’s goals:The following are some basic requirements and system constraints:The scenario shows the relevant activities that comprise a trip or other story. Viewing these activities spatially allows us to judge the user workload. In the scenario above, the car or phone operating system may actually perform some trip planning and determine safe times for certain activities.For transit and mobile users in cities, the end of a trip is often the most complex part of the scenario. These are often called “first mile” and “last mile” problems. Users of cars, for instance, face last mile problems such as detours, finding a location, navigation, parking, and switching to a different transit system. While city and transportation planners work to provide services to reduce the problem, it’s still an important problem for designers to consider. In the example scenario, we zoom in on the last mile, in this case the last 3 miles of a car trip. This could also be considered a separate scenarios.That’s about it. Any feedback on this idea is appreciated.Designer who tries to make make city streets little better. I write about transportation, mobility, and urbanism

User research is quickly becoming an essential part of every design team’s toolkit. But but the barrier for entry is often high for a lot of teams, because of the perceived complexity of research, and the DIY nature of the process.The benefits that teams see from building user research into their product development process is massive — it dramatically improves the value and usefulness for your users, and in turn increases the likelihood your products and projects will succeed.In an effort to make user research more accessible for all design teams, we want to provide some simple tools and instructions to help anyone get started running user research on their products and projects today.The goal for running user research should always be to get actionable learnings and insights to your team, as quickly as possible, so you can continue to build a better product.Below we have outlined the typical phases and activities you will go through when running user research.We go into more detail on all of these points in other posts, so hopefully this will give you a good sense of what the process looks like at a high level, and is a good starting point for further reading.A beginners guide to running User Research for design teams.Short, actionable advice to help your design team get started running user research today.

One of the very worst developments on the Web is being assaulted by loud television-style ads while reading on a typically print-oriented site. Imagine if a decently produced print magazine could suddenly pop up a raucous TV ad to hammer you in the face. Well, magazines which had heretofore acted with some modicum of decorum within their actual ink-on-paper, “real world” pages, now see fit to pummel you this way on the Web. My new favorite pattern is to be engrossed in an article only to have a screeching video suddenly appear via popup or begin playing automatically in the right rail once I scroll down to a particular point. The disruption to your headspace in that moment is annoying, often incongruent and sometimes even unnerving. We all know that feeling, but I’ve never seen it Of course, this disturbance is something we’re all familiar with by now, but it’s been nagging at me for a while, and I wanted to take a stab at codifying it. So here’s what I’m sure amounts to an incomplete listing of some primary ways we encounter experience dissonance By virtue of their design, many of these intrusions are bad enough, purely from a user experience perspective, but couple them to a complete lack of consideration for the accompanying content, and the effect is geometrically compounded. These patterns are ruining reading on the Web.Arguably, of course, this isn’t anything new: Television has been treating us this way for decades. As someone who seldom ever watches live TV anymore, however, it’s quite jarring now to watch a show, too, which settles into a certain mood only for that mood to be shattered by a raucous incoming commercial.Remember when print was exempt from that? And remember when our loftier publications could be counted on to at least steer clear of some of the cheesier forms of imagery in advertising.Not anymore.Recently, I was reading a book review (on Slate, I believe) and a video advertising chewing gum came on — just because I scrolled far enough down the page to activate it. Never mind that at that moment I was reading a piece of significant pathos and gravity.Similarly, imagine you click on a sobering story about Ebola in West Africa and a huge ad for The Walking Dead takes over your entire screen. Kind of inappropriate, right? Especially for a (supposedly) serious news outlet? Yet, that’s exactly what was possible on Newsweek’s site recently.And let’s not forget the tacky ads plastered like wallpaper everywhere now via content mills like Taboola.Read a thoughtful piece on the once venerable The Atlantic’s site about feminism and it may be followed by a prompt to read about how “Christie Brinkley’s Caribbean Beach House Will Leave You in Awe.” And that’s a tame example.Consider the way we digest video now, too. When you click on a video of some gravity, something immediate and of the moment — newly released video of Michael Brown being shot, let’s say — and an ad appears first — is that really appropriate? Never mind what ad, really, but if it’s a cheesy, noisy one — all the worse. This as you’re experiencing a seminal moment in American race and civil rights history.We’re enabling a riotous media circus that treats all content as equal, whether it’s a celebrity divorce, a terrorist attack or a laundry detergent ad. Just the fact that you often have to watch one ad per video clip anymore is an annoyance, but couple that to the fact that for every brief news clip about something as serious as Ebola or Ferguson or ISIL,Of course, online publishers have to make money. This isn’t a treatise against advertising. It’s a argument in favor of curating advertising content, which is appropriate to the content and to the moment a user is experiencing it. Maybe even dropping ads from certain content when it’s merited. In other words, it’s not just being mindful of the fact that a user is reading content about, say violence erupting in Ferguson, MO, but also being mindful of the fact that this human being is experiencing a moment of violence in And, really, are Taboola ads an appropriate match for Will that take a more complicated ad-serving algorithm? More nuanced tagging of content? More sophisticated, tiered services from the Taboolas and Outbrains of this world? Sure. But the small investment in those improvements would go a long way towards restoring and fortifying a publisher’s brand, instead of continuing to undermine it.Digital magpie, information architect, writer, photographer, media and political junkie, Australian, American, RazorfishWriting about content and information, how we as humans process and filter it.

In the world of interactive design the set-top box or cable box is one of the most active touch-points after mobile and desktop operating systems. At the same time it’s one of the least considered in terms of user experience given the range of people who interact with it daily. My grandparents are probably more well-versed in the nuance of television navigation than I am, seeing as they’ve had Dish service since the days that I was still adjusting rabbit-ears to pull in NBC.Despite its long history and virtually non-existent hardware upgrade cycle, set-top designers have stuck us in a world where navigating any deeper than the channel guide requires inputting a Now, newer systems, namely the Xbox One, have worked to solve these navigational issues, but it has the marked advantage of game controller input and voice recognition. I’m not talking about that (though let’s be honest that Xbox voice input is far from perfect). I’m talking about the refurbished box you get from TimeWarner, Verizon, Comcast, or RCN. Yes, the one that comes with the familiar up, down, left, right, select controls. Let’s even include AppleTV in this exploration as they fell into the same trap with their interface, despite including the ability to connect an iPhone as the input device.So, you all know system, I’m sure you all share in the frustration, but how do we fix it?I want to focus on finding a solution to the key two of these issues: Navigability and Remote Fatigue. In my experience with websites, we aim for a maximum of three layers of navigation, and I want to achieve the same standard for the set-top. Second, remote fatigue is a real consideration. Try navigating from the Home level of Netflix on an AppleTV down to a Movie Detail screen, then out to another Movie Detail screen to see for yourself. It’s exhausting and eventually hurts even the most seasoned of thumbs.For this exploration I am using the Netflix application (AppleTV or set-top, such as the one within RCN) as I think a lot of the learning could then be extrapolated up the chain to the box itself.Let’s look at Navigability first, as a new framework should aid in simplifying thumb movement. If we organize categories into vertical columns moving from title to title is converted from bi-directional movement to uni-directional: up and down. Moving right or left then moves to the next or previous category respectively. Finally, the Title Detail page then exists as one level down from the browsing layer, allowing us to maintain a consistent two-level hierarchy between navigation and detail.This vertical movement is a different way of thinking about scrolling, as we no longer have an endless stream of titles. Instead, we organize the titles into groups of five within each sub-category and the user can either select to view more or move on to the the next sub-category.We have given these columns the potential to be quite tall, so we must offer the ability to get back to the top when the user moves horizontally.As you can see, I’m limiting the number of options on screen at any given time to make navigation explicitly clear for the user. Title Detail pages are no different, with key options front and center while less-used elements appear one level deeper.By reorganizing the navigation structure to a simple up and down method, we have simultaneously streamlined thumb movement on the remote. The user can very easily keep his thumb on the down arrow to navigate, moving only after he has made a clear decision: To select a title, to move to another category, or move back up within the category.I like to think of this system as “if you see it, it’s selected.” The key visual on screen at any given time is the selected option, and any other visual is no more than a few clicks away. This means the user is no longer in a position where moving from the current selection to the desired selection means chasing the option across the screen.Have I found a solution? Certainly I haven’t solved for every nuance, but I think I’ve opened up a means of thinking differently about this interface, and how it could be less painful (both mentally and physically) for all of us who interact with it daily.This platform hasn’t had the love or attention it requires, and just a bit of thought and prototyping could go a long way. The set-top is still broken, but now maybe just a few more people will care.Designer based in NYC, currently working at Fi

Labs Features are a great way to for users to get a sneak peak at new features before they’re rolled out to the general public. Gaining feedback early allows us to make a better, more stable product for everyone.When building a product, how do you know you’re developing the right features in the right way? Figuring out whether a feature will work for the entire user base is a major pain point, one that often leads to long internal discussions based on opinion and hypotheses. We’ve come up with a great way of getting feedback There are a few different approaches to gain early feedback on features:When assessing the possibilities for GoToAssist Service Desk, we landed on Labs features as the best path forward. Every product has some customers that love to try anything new, while some resist change or require lead time to communicate upcoming change within their organisation. The Labs approach provides the best outcome for all these types of customers. So far, it’s been well received by our users, and the results and feedback have been awesome. Here’s what’s worked well:At the beginning of the year, we started putting more emphasis on Labs features. We haven’t been disappointed. It’s allowed us to collect more data on particular feature usage, release new features with more confidence, and engage with our customers more fully.Product Manager for GoToAssist Service Desk.How we build GoToAssist

Challenging oneself is what brings true happiness.Over the past 2 weeks, I challenged myself to redesign San Diego Comic Con’s (SDCC) website. Their current site is really cluttered and very hard for an average user to find the information they’re looking for within seconds. I wanted to see if I can fix this by making the site more user centric, cleaner, and still have a feeling of excitement and fun.I studied Comic Con’s current site and quickly pointed out what rules of user experience (UX) they were breaking.2. The main navigation bar is repeated on the left3. A auto-playing image/content carousel. If you don’t yet know why image carousels are bad, visit 4. No clear call-to-action. With so much clutter on the page, where is a users eyes supposed to go? It’s like a flea market and everyone is yelling for my attention!5. Surprise dropdown and flyout menus.For my first attempt on the redesign, I stayed within the mindset of, “Would this actually work for the Comic Con team?” “Would the team be able to update this layout quickly without the need of a graphic designer?”I wanted to redesign the homepage by reorganizing the content elements that were already on the current homepage. So, I kept the carousel, the 2014 updates, the general information, and sponsors.After the layout wireframes, I went in a little bit deeper by In my head, all of these sketches were awesome and I wanted to quickly head into the design phase. So I did some google image searching for assets and went straight into With Webflow, I find it super easy to go from wireframing straight into designing. What you design inside of Webflow is exactly what you’ll see when you access it from a browser.After I finished designing the The more I worked on it, the more I started to hate it and second guess myself. Why isn’t it looking as good as it did in my head?I went to find answers on Twitter, researched other websites, asked Reddit and asked my wife. The answers I got made me realize that my imagery was lacking and I was not pushing myself hard enough to think “outside of the box.”After doing a quick Google search on terms like “SDCC redesign,” “San Diego Comic Con redesign,” and “San Diego Comic Con website redesign,” I found two other designers that made their own concepts.For layout inspiration, I found a fellow Webflow designer, For the second layout, I thought of a more grand experience. Something eye-catching that’ll wow the user in thinking “This site is so fun that I need throw money at my screen so I can get a badge.” When going for a more “grand” experience, I thought of utilizing the whole viewport and not limiting myself to the usual 960 pixel layout.To make the site more lively I also thought of using the Pintrest/Windows 8 “start menu” type of feel with lots of imagery.More confident with the new idea, I headed back into Webflow to execute the new wireframe.With the new layout and carousel done, I took a break. The design was “almost there” but I couldn’t figure out what was wrong with the carousel design. So naturally I asked Twitter.Then a new friend I met earlier at a web design conference said:I pondered that tweet for hours and sketched out other carousel layouts. It wasn’t until the end of the next day that I finally realized:It was the image/content carousel that kept me thinking “inside the box” this whole time. By replacing it with the actual purpose of the convention itself and a clear call-to-action, I figured out the concept of my redesign.I quickly looked up the mission statement of SDCC, shortened it to “Celebrating the historic and ongoing contribution of comics to art and culture,” and made that the first copy you see on the website. Backing up that statement, I added a short looping video clip by Having these four elements will quickly help the user understand the type of convention it is, what it is like to be there and how to get there.Once I finished the layout and made it responsive, I published the site on Webflow and called it a day. I’m proud of my work and happy that I took on this challenge, even though there are those that would Anyone can redesign a site, but without a concept and great imagery, it will always fall flat. It doesn’t hurt to start from scratch multiple times. Research before designing goes a long way to help you understand real UX problems that a redesign should creatively solve.View final redesign here: I dream in pixels. I play with LEGO bricks. I design digital experiences for Illumina.Thoughts from a Pixel Geek

Dear Twitter,I’m one of your biggest fans. I’ve said on multiple occasions that Twitter has been a life-changer for me. It’s introduced me to amazing people and helped me advance in my career professionally. I also believe it’s the most social network of all the “social networks” that exist today — forcing people to truly build human to human relationships in order to make any real impact.This said, a core feature of Twitter does NOT get the love it deserves. I’m talking about Twitter lists. I figured I’d share a few ideas on how you can give them the update they deserve.In their current state, lists show up in a different order depending where you view them:Now I’m not saying showing the most recent is a BAD thing — but to show everything by order of creation is a frustrating user experience. So let’s up the game a bit here, Twitter, and section off the lists section into two areas.Show the most three most recently used lists at the top (above alphabetical order) so that users can easily add people during major events. Additionally, much like Let’s keep taking major events and conferences so we can talk about the value of what sub lists would bring. I attend events like Social Media Week or Edu Web Digital Summit every year. To be able create parent lists with sublists below would allow me to highlight an overall experience and break them down in multiple ways.This doesn’t just work for events — but in a wealth of other ways. Just a few examples to name:Continuing the idea mentioned earlier about “pinning” tweets — lists should also include the ability to pin Tweeters near the top of any given list. This provides both users and brands the ability to spotlight key people who they feel deserve attention. It’s kind of like a manual version of “top tweets”.So Twitter, I hope you’ll consider looking at what you’re doing with Twitter lists and how you can enhance this amazing feature. Lists truly are an amazing resource and with a bit of extra love, there wouldn’t be a need for third party list tools that connect to Twitter.Thanks for listening,Chris Barrows is Social Media and Mobile Products Coordinator at New York University. He is the creator of the #Socialmedia Coordinator at 

What started off as a music festival in the late 80s has since grown to magnitudes of unimaginable scale (and Im not exaggerating). Looking at it from a local context, it’s like combining all of the Europe’s largest music, film, interaction design, media art, content creation, internet activism, startup culture, business, health and comedy festivals into a single event — and all this in less than 10 days.The Interactive track, which brought me to Austin, consists of sessions, keynotes, workshops, panels, book readings, book signings, awards, meetups and mentor sessions, to name a few.Keep in mind this is by no means a comprehensive list of SXSW’s best, but rather a subjective take on the people, projects and products that stuck in my head. (I wasnt able to see everything I wanted, obviously, and am not accustomed to the festival’s religion — The session that opened SXSW for me, was actually one of the best ones. “How to Say ‘Fuck No’  Still Have Them Love You” presented by Called by the NYT Having been on the road for the last few months (speaking at more than 77 universities), Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian preaches innovation in the age of Internet. His talk, “Be Awesome Without Their Permission” focuses on his experiences with companies, startups and students building great projects facilitated by the existence of the www. He has a great deal of positive showmanship in his talk but ends the session quite emotionally. “Lives left: 0”. We give our best in video games when there are 0 lives left. He reminds us that in life there are also no extra lives. We only have one chance of doing what we love, with the people we love.They showcased a lot of stuff I use, so just to mention a few — #technologywillsaveus #sugru #bergcloud and #bareconductive. Loved it!Jason Cranford Teague promoted A great little Cliff Kuang, the articles editor at WIRED, presented some examples of interaction in the post screen world. He focused on a few products: The Cone speaker by The real revelation for me, was a piece of software called Designing pattern libraries was a popular session. Although the speakers didnt get much into the gritty details (as I wished they would), they did provide the attendees with some good examples and resources. They worked on the (now outdated) Tim Ferriss, the popular lifehacker and best selling author of the 4 hour book series spoke about his latest endeavour — the TV show “Having watched Bruce concluded his rant by telling the audience about his foreseeable future — shifting the focus from writing to prototyping. Prototyping the future, the technologies, the possibilities. Spending the next year creating and materialising his convictions. Next year, at SXSW, he hopes to present his process. Science fiction turned reality.Although there was much talk about the processes and tools we use, I would like to end this report on the lines of Alexis, Bruce and Tim. We only have one life and one chance to learn and create, regardless of other people’s opinions or permissions.As is the case with planning and life hacking SXSW, one only gets better with practice. See you next year.I also saw Neil deGrasse Tyson speak about space and exploration, missed This entry is the 3rd part of Designer. Creative director 

Since the arrival of smartphones on the market, everyone dreams of creating the next big app that will compare in popularity to Waze, Whatsapp, and Instagram.But there is a catch. We are able to come up with an idea that will meet user expectations and needs. Our idea can solve a problem or even creates a new user experience. The problem is that we follow the same old model.It has long been assumed that the ideal mix of a startup founding team consists of a Chief Executive Officer (CEO — that often comes with the idea and the first features), a Chief Technical Officer (CTO — which brings technical expertise) and a Chief Marketing Officer (CMO — that will sell the product to the consumer).Frequently, the CEO can take on multiple roles.When a team grows, you will hire more technical people, designers, marketing people, financiers, office manager and assistants of all kinds.The last to be hired is the Product Manager, yet it is a key piece in the success of any startup.The Product Manager the one in charge of supporting the development of the product both in functional design (deciding if adding features to respond well to a need for the target user) and in its technical development (managing technical teams without being their superior).The Product Manager often replaces the CEO regarding the product aspect, when the latter becomes too busy managing the relationship with its investors or to canvas new markets. Top Management often feels that a Product Manager is a duplicate of the CEO (sometimes called mini-CEO).When big startups like Facebook or Google buy small or medium sized startups, mostly their CEO-founder becomes Product Manager within these groups.October 2015, Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s former CEO (2007–2008) became CEO of Twitter again after being fired from his post and then after developing Square, a mobile payment startup.Why was he able to regain his position? Because he is considered as a true product guy. The product was neglected without him. Twitter has not sufficiently turned to the users, who were still struggling to understand or find daily use.Jack reminded us to Like Steve Jobs, who was called upon to save Apple from bankruptcy, his mission was to instill a vision in his teams and lead the ship, focusing primarilty on the product.The first co-founder that any non-technical startuper seeks when he wants to start is his CTO. To do so is perhaps his greatest mistake.Develop a prototype (or MVP — Minimum Viable Product) in order to attract attention of investors, which does not necessarily need to be truly developed technologically.To look for technical co-founder in a hyper tight market, where each developer (from beginner to expert) receives multiple proposals every day, is very time consuming.This lost time is extremely problematic in an area (services and digital applications) rapidly changing. Your idea is already being achieved elsewhere in the world.Therefore, at first you must focus on the product, as it will always be the one who will advance your startup. Not technology. Technology is only a means to make your product. Your users will only see the end result.Start by perfectly designing your product. This is the responsibility of a talented product manager..How do you build a product to show, at the beginning, without having to develop anything?My advice is the following one:Your discussions and brainstorming around the product, market, target, features will be incredibly beneficial.Show them your vision if you have it, otherwise they will help define it.Defining a vision is a critical step. I purposely said a vision and not a goal.Make sure a market exists. Check that your vision meets user expectations and needs.With your CPO, define what your will be MVP.You will have a minimum product to show the first users and investors.They will have no need to download it and will face no bugs.All the while you can continue to search for a CTO. You can get to know him too.And ultimately, you know you have a real winner trio: CEO-CPO-CTO.Working on social conversation for leaders, their audience and brands. Entrepreneur / Product maker / Mentoring startups / Unconditional Startup Nation fan

Airbnb’s mission is far from only helping people finding a place to sleep, but to create the perfect travel experience. And that means optimizing for every step of a trip, all the way from finding a place to go, making the booking, communicating with your host, getting there, checking in, figuring out the small but important minutiae of what you do when you’re there, all the way till you finally check out and start making your way back home.But currently the Airbnb iOS app seems to be mostly focusing on being a booking platform.As a long time fan of Airbnb and a host for many years, I wanted to explore how the Airbnb app could provide an To get a better understanding of the Airbnb experience I started by interviewing guests and hosts, looking at comments posted online by Airbnb users and reading through hundreds of reviews posted on Airbnb. It was clear that some of the biggest pain points for both guest and host was due to lack of communication around ETA or information around the logistics of getting there or how to use amenities.To help guide me in my design process I created two personas: John the host and Phillip the guest. Airbnb is a two-sided market, so I made sure to be mindful of the needs and motivations of both guest and host.From the learnings I started shaping the idea of a push notification service resembling a In addition to the pro-active notification service I also thought it would be good to structure the Your Trip section to be more tailored to the chronological steps in the trip experience. So I started wireframing what this could look like.I created a clickable prototype by using Invision and used this to do more usability testing. With their easy sync features it was super fast to make changes and show it again to new people to see if I had made it better or worse.With this process I could test usability improvements, but to really validate the new design in the real world I’d have to go on a new trip…. See ya!Norwegian Viking Princess in San Francisco. UX designer.Multi-faceted design methods, thoughts and examinations across different crafts from architecture to technology. Submission guidelines — 

A natural inclination of designers is to make things look “pretty”. This is not a bad urge. Humans are attracted to attractive things. The problem is when you spend time refining a solution which is fundamentally wrong. Every design decision must have a purpose, and the design as a whole must meet a need.Once you’ve built something worthwhile, the obvious next step is to turn it from an ugly duckling into a swan. That’s the proper order of things.In late 2014, I joined Sonatype as a UX developer. At the time, they were in the midst of developing Nexus 3, the next major version of a popular repository management tool used by tens of thousands of developers. Milestone 2 (M2) had just been released.Repository managers are a fundamental part of modern software development. Software is rarely written from scratch. Instead, you produce and consume binary components that couple together to form a complete application stack. One popular site, Maven Central, does nothing but host these software components.In order to build your software, you need reliable access to these components. You can run a local Nexus instance to pull down components as needed and cache them for future use. You can also publish your own components, allowing other teams and organizations to use them.When I started, Nexus looked something like this:This is a perfect example of a valuable tool in need of visual refinement. The goal is to take a tool that is useful and turn it into a tool that is pleasing to use. As a designer and front-end developer, I had the unique opportunity to take full ownership of these improvements. From prioritization to design to implementation, my job was the care and feeding of the Nexus user experience.By the time milestone 5 was released, Nexus 3 looked like this:To get the UI to this point, I made a number of refinements. First, I shifted the colors to draw the eye to the most relevant part of the interface. White is a bright color. I wanted to reserve it for the header and content area of the selected feature. Other areas of the interface received darker shades of grey to deemphasize them.Next, I removed the border underneath the feature icon and title to reflect the way the tool scrolls. In a typical grid view, the icon, title, action buttons, and filter input are fixed to the top. The grid scrolls. To make this relationship clearer, I gave the aforementioned elements a shared white background.The header received the next batch of changes. The active mode is indicated by a blue background. Because the active mode is such an important visual clue for orientation, I made it full bleed in the header. I also tied it to the rest of the page by adding a caret.In addition, I revised the header icons from grey to white. This boosted contrast and gave the modes more pop. Finally, I aligned the version number with the baseline of the header title to make the overall effect more cohesive.With respect to the content area itself, you might notice that M2 had significantly more buttons above the grid. All of these buttons, save one, require that a grid row be selected first. To simplify the UI and make this relationship clearer, I removed the buttons from this view and added them to the detail panel that appears when a row is selected.Typography played another key role in the improvements. First, we updated the font itself to Proxima Nova, used in our other products. Then, we boosted the size of the feature title to help orient people.The last thing you might notice is the right-hand carets, one per row in the grid. I added these as an affordance to hint at the result of clicking a row in the grid. I’ll describe this drilldown interaction more thoroughly in the next section.Modals are often a case of lazy design. They are commonly used to enforce a linear workflow. In M2, we used them extensively. One of my goals was to replace modals with a more thoughtfully-designed alternative.The alternative I chose is something called “drilldown”. Instead of a modal, when you make a selection, the panel slides to the left and your selection slides in from the right. It includes a breadcrumb, so you can easily navigate back, and supports an arbitrary number of panels. This is handy when traversing a file hierarchy or navigating a wizard.Creating and editing objects are very similar tasks. In M2, these tasks had very different UI. Modals were used to create new objects, while editing resulted in a subpanel.Thanks to drilldown, I was able to use the same interaction pattern for both. The result? Better consistency across the experience.Optional fieldsets are a control which, when enabled, reveal additional form elements. They declutter a form by hiding non-essential sections of the form.In M2, these subpanels shared the same background color as the parent panel, which made them hard to distinguish, particularly when nested. I was able to remedy this by giving each nested subpanel a progressively darker background.Forms become dirty when unsaved changes are made. Dirty forms must be submitted for the changes to persist on the server.When not dirty, saving a form is a noop. This is wasteful and doesn’t help the user see if a save is needed. I updated the visual styling of forms to indicate when saving is necessary. If not necessary, the save button is disabled.Fixed layouts have obvious downsides. M2 was not built responsively. Because total responsiveness is a big change, I settled on a smaller change to help us kick the wheels and inform future improvements.Now, the UI has the concept of tiles. Tiles live within the content body, and may be either full width or a smaller, fixed width. In the latter case, they flow based on the available width of the screen.In M2, content was very flat. Only slight differences in typography and no framing of content.In addition to adding tiles, I also standardized the UI on several tiers of font sizes. These help the eye scan the page and establish a clear hierarchy.Nexus has no concept of undo. When an object is deleted, it cannot be recovered. The problem is obvious. When people accidentally delete something, getting it back is not trivial.Because of time constraints, we decided against implementing a fully-fledged undo feature. Instead, I implemented a simple warning modal when people make a change to a form and try to navigate away without saving. This was a simple but effective way to accomplish the same outcome.Because the drilldown panel can extend to an arbitrary number of panels, and each name can be rather long, I implemented a simple truncation algorithm to prevent the breadcrumb from wrapping or overflowing off the screen.The algorithm itself is quite simple. Given a number of breadcrumb elements, try to fit them into the available screen width. If they don’t fit, truncate the longest element. Repeat.Evolving a legacy experience is entirely possible. The trick is doing so in a way that doesn’t disrupt the development process. As a designer who can code, I have the luxury of taking UX improvements outside of the critical path of development. However, there are still risks.This was a rewarding experience for me, and I highly recommend it to designers who are interested in becoming more vested in the code. The ability to code comes with power and responsibility, but it’s important to weigh it against your long-term goals as a designer. How would you rather spend your finite hours, coding or designing?UX designer and recovering student.Usability, UX Design, Information Architecture, Interaction Design and whatnot. Brought to you by your friends at 

An interesting topic came up “Customerish relationships” describe an The attitudes and behaviors of customerish experiences are affected by the same factors and conditions as “regular” retail experiences. The positive — gaining an appreciation of the business’ offerings, improving the brand perception and even taking the first steps towards an eventual conversion into customer; and the negative — being affected by low quality service, bad user experience, delays in retail delivery, manners… etc. Yet, the feedback and satisfaction levels derived from these experiences will not be captured and not even recognized by traditional means of customer relationship management. Akin to the ideas of the “Deep web” and the “Dark social”, we can talk about a “Deep CRM”, a layer of human perceptions and feedback loops that are not currently parsed or indexed by existing CRM solutions.From this description, a number of interesting design opportunities arise, each one we can label under a humane quality:Which other businesses do my users rely on as part of their consumption cycles? What opportunities exist for fostering collaborations and allegiances that erase the seams on a multi-tier consumer transaction and increase the value for all the parts involved? Can we “pave the cowpaths”, even, and specially so, when those paths take the customer beyond our reach?Integration of 3rd party APIs is a common practice nowadays by which digital products and services pay service to the idea that they’re but a link in a chain of value for the user, but there’s still much need to take this notion into consideration from the concept and design stages of a project, taking for granted user desires and activities that start before and end well beyond our business.It could be as simple as: A bank that, after a number of recurring automated transfers have happened, offers me the possibility of adding that account as another kind of product on my portfolio, with historical visualizations and other perks usually reserved only for the bank’s own products.Which opportunities do exist to foster a casual relationship into a deeper engagement, while avoiding the risks of behaving in spammy, antisocial and counterproductive ways? Key here are the ideas of memory, pro-activiness and a “digital patina” that recognizes the historicity of the relationships between users and digital interfaces. Also, how can I design around the idea of “transparency” so my services/products are not “black boxes”, but can’t be probed, explored or addressed by others without the need to become a customer?Consider the social ties of our customer. What are her spouse’s, friend’s, business partner’s needs and how can we reach out to them so their occasional interactions with our stouchpoints and communication channels are as pleasant and efficient as possible?It could be as simple as: In a merchant’s website, a special page where I, a non-customer, can see a list of “Things that have been gifted to me” by customers of the site, akin to the standard “My orders” page for customers.How can we acknowledge the value that our customers add to our own economic cycles beyond the mere act of consumption? When they act as emissaries, proxies or even sales assistants in our behalf, not for the sake of our business, but because of their own social dynamic loops, how can we design towards making their contributions easier, more meaningful and rewarding?Consider the social dynamics that your customer is a participant of and that result in interactions with my site for other people. Make sure barriers are lowered and hassles are removed. Enhance the processes with affordances and benefits that evoke delight and fidelity and express thankfulness.It could be as simple as: Create a “social ID” for me as a customer of the bank, in the form “Being supportive, attentive and grateful are drivers that we can use when figuring out how to navigate the complex scenarios of multi-tier human/business interaction. In the multilayered scenery of capitalist western economies, ¡Tengo la cabeza muy grande y los brazos muy cortos! 

The secret highlight, the real reason for any great Californian roadtrip, is that it’s a chance to indulge in a local delicacy: In-N-Out. There are all kinds of mystery and myth around the company, but I’d like to posit one more great thing about the place: they have the world’s best-designed menu.If you’re a new customer, you only have to answer one simple, obvious question:All of the menu items are the same: they’re burgers, with different quantities of meat and cheese. That’s it. There’s no mystery to it. If you are new to the In-N-Out experience, there’s no time lost staring at a big menu, and worrying that you’re going to pick a bad menu item.For “advanced users”, of course, there is the secret menu: the culinary equivalent of a keyboard shortcut, a way to try out varieties on the classic. Add some sauce, order a grilled cheese, get your fries done extra-crispy; it’s all up to you.But if you’re a new customer, you’ll walk away feeling like you got to try California’s classic burger; you only had one choice to make, and it was easy. You’ve now experienced the tradition of In-N-Out, and it was painless. You feel like you know it well.For those repeat customers, they feel just a In-N-Out. Famous for their burgers, (although nothing beats Dick’s Drive In in Seattle!) but also home to the world’s best menu design.—Originally posted at iOS at Khan Academy

Progress takes practice. You have to work at it every single day.Regardless of your circumstances, when you practice UX every day, you:This is not just about It can start today with a single commitment to yourself: understand your Why. Some people try to do this through self-reflection alone. How well do you really understand the wants and needs of your key decision makers? Beyond the list of requirements they’ve given you, what do you Key decision makers vary by company and by project. If you’re in-house, this may be your product owner or department head. At an agency, this may be your client contacts or your director. If you’re independent, this may be your client stakeholders. And for executives, this may be your board of directors. First, know who makes the decisions. Then make them your friends.Sometimes there’s only one person to ask. Sometimes there are a few. It’s up to you to determine who the best people are to connect with, and convince them to put you on their calendar. You’ll have to give yourself permission to even ask. But once you do, you’ll be surprised how doors open up for you.Once you’ve asked the questions and captured the answers, you’ll need to synthesize what you learned. This is key. Not only will the synthesis help you uncover new insights and identify discrepancies in decision makers’ points of view, you’ll have a full report to share back with them for mutual benefit. I can’t even tell you how many times my stakeholder research findings have changed the entire product strategy or helped to scrap unnecessary projects altogether — it happens a lot!We practice stakeholder interviews and synthesis early on in When you Learn the Ropes, we go through the details of how to pull this off successfully and squeeze every drop of opportunity out of the experience. Many of you have never given yourselves permission to even talk to stakeholders before, so I walk through it step by step, answering all your questions along the way. Then I review all your work and give you feedback on how to improve next time. And that’s just one out of eight total sessions! We’re going to do a heck of a lot more together.Our next round of I can’t wait to practice with you!I’m just trying to leave this world a little better than I found it. 

An open solution defining the way we’llEverybody in the tech field is talking about the Internet of Things as the solution to all of our problems. Over here I don’t intend to make a statement. This is not the point, because the one I want to focus at is how, based on a There is an article from If we want the Internet of Things to succed, we need to understand what people need. Easy? More than you expect, because while we are creating smart lights that change colors based on today’s weather, songs rythms or tagged photos, this is just a little part of what people really want. So what do people want?Could this be all? Of course, besides saving money, this is their main wish. And we need to respect their wish.Companies in the field like Bluemix, Xively or Spark Core offer APIs and basic dashboards providing the chance to control the physical world easily. With their help, physical objects can be manipulated through the web, which is an big achievement. This is also the idea that brought Lelylan to life.However, we must all realize, APIs do not solve one big problem: The creation of a great app is difficult. It requires a lot of time and good professional skills. Designers, UX experts, and developers, these are just some of the names who should be involved in the process. And even if you do a great job, you are giving “one more app to your customers”. Some rationality is needed to simplify the access to the Internet of Things. This is where We are in a new era of web development based on encapsulated and interoperable custom elements that extend HTML itself. Built atop these new standards, Lelylan Device comes with a default template that makes it possible to control every device from a simple lamp to a more complex washing machine. It automatically adapts recognizing the device type.Of course, a default template cannot cater for the needs of everyone. In order to provide the best user experience, Lelylan Device allows for customized templates too. Let’s say you want to control a smart lamp. All you have to do is looking up the desired template and start using it.Since Lelylan Device is Open Source, customized templates can be shared. Check out the Talking about the Internet of Things, we must agree that we are only in its early days. Even s millions of developers and designers are experimenting in the field, we have yet to see the emergence of a major platform that will define the User Experience in the Internet of Things as Material Design is doing for the Android world.May Lelylan Device be the next step? Give it a try.Building the Connected Home

The minute we received the Arvind briefing we knew it was an interesting project.Arvind is a leading company in the retail business, besides being regarded as a reference in the fields of fashion and lifestyle in India.The corporate goal was to raise online presence and, despite the fact that the request was for the creation of an e-commerce, they made it clear that our proposal could include everything we thought could help achieve the goal.Our biggest incentive as a team from the beginning was the complete freedom we were offered to present our proposal. We were able to make proposals regarding strategy, content, etc.During the conceptualisation meetings we had input from specialists in fashion and retail. This was a rather new sector to us, so their contributions helped us understand and immerse ourselves in the world of fashion and retail and, what’s even more important to us, the needs of users.We have the opportunity of building the digital experience of a consolidated firm. What priorities did we set?Thus we started to design our proposal.What are today’s consumers looking for? Without a doubt, today’s consumers want to decide when, where and what they are buying, and hope for the same experience regardless of the channel they are using. It was clear to us that we had to focus in developing an Starting from this premise, we realised it was a priority, in order to create a Furthermore, all of this had to be seamlessly integrated with the client’s CRM systems, together with a CEM program to track customer behaviour effectively, to maximise information collection and thus optimise performance in future actions.To approach consumers and to establish a recurring, We decided that storytelling would be approached from several directions:That way we conceived “A: The House of Fashion”, the online brand identity, which would encompass all of its digital universe. Something more than an e-commerce, a transversal experience beyond shopping, a fashion and lifestyle experience connecting with the user.As part of the strategy of approaching users offering a real, distinctive value, we focused on creating a digital magazine “MAG” dealing with trends, news, lifestyle, fashion advice by sector influencers…A community where users can share opinions about products, have access to exclusive promotions, add products to a wish list, design outfits to share styles, and reward consumption through gamification.The purchase process is the culmination of a good e-commerce experience. How do we help to improve this experience?Starting from the premise that the whole process should be very intuitive in order to facilitate and stimulate conversion, we had to implement browsing logic and visual processing solutions in such a way that the purchase process was improved, making it easier for the user in two key ways: suggesting garments that they might like, from products previously viewed, and specifying as much as possible the sizing and characteristics of each product.During our conceptualisation meetings, our team agreed on the following.This has happened to all of us. You are going for a walk and see someone on the street wearing something, a garment, an accessory, a pair of shoes…that you love. Wouldn’t it be great to be able to find a similar product in your favourite store? This is how the idea of “Fashion Hunter” emerged. It’s a tool in the app which, after taking a picture of the garment, helps the user to find it in the Arvind stores -the same or the most similar one available.Users are at the centre of our work. Our main focus is their experience, so that the interaction with our digital products is enriching, satisfying and fulfilling their expectations. To try it out, we included users in the development process, reaching to them in two key stages of the project:By listening to the real thing, we were able to confirm that we were going in the right direction, and were able to correct and modify some issues as a result of their suggestions.All of our team agrees on the fact that this was a project in which we had fun.Being able to learn from the views of specialists gave us the opportunity to understanding more deeply this sector. Getting to know a sector from a different perspective, besides being essential to the project, is always encouraging to us.Furthermore, we really liked the end result. We can say that we had fun, learned, and felt fully satisfied with the end result. What else could we ask for?DIGITAL EXPERIENCES - UX / Visual Design/ Creative Development - 

The Dictionary describes it as:However in practice:Since UX is centred around the user and how they perceive a brand we must write a brand story, tell the tale of where you come from and what you are here to do.The point is to meet the core needs of the customer without fuss or bother to then develop the reliability, usability and visibility. Go through Maslow’s Hierarchy of needs its only when the fundamentals are present that you can wow!Customer journey mapping can be run as a workshop involving the client account managers designers and developers at the beginning of a project to get a well rounded understanding of how every person thinks the user behaves.Tips:1. Test little tasks and do it often2. Use meeting rooms, not labs. They are a more comfortable environment so you’re likely to get better results.3. Keep it small, up to 6 users (make sure these are the targeted users)4. Be clear and helpful, but dont enfroce your opinion/assumptions.5. Have a script, but dont read it out like a robot.6. Test taks not features. People behave naturally when they are trying to carry something out. But make the tasks realistic not choose wherever in the world you would like to go.7. Invite members of the team (design/development) to observe8. Record everything (clicks, spoken word) but try to automate,so you’re not distracted.User Experience Designer and Digital Planner at BJL Manchester

I walked into the Purple Cafe  Wine Bar in Bellevue, WA. It was happy hour. Glasses clanking, big smiles, everyone looked happy.Across the bar, sat Robin Barrow. He motioned me over. Robin is a self-taught creative genius! He’s done work for major brands such as Prior to meeting with Robin, I’d been studying designs of brands like Apple, Sony, Google, Microsoft, Zurb and others and wanted to understand the process behind creating a great product that people loved. I wanted to understand what would compel people to stand in line for days in anticipation of a product. What was it about Apple products that made people go so crazy?! How does one create a “cult” around their brand? I was starting to have a great appreciation for design, and wanted to learn more. So I reached out to Robin.Robin reminds me of Apple’s Jony Ive. Perhaps it’s because he’s British. ☺He hates when you confuse him for an Australian, and some days, he likes to sound Jamaican. Quite the guy ☺I grabbed a seat next to Robin. I thought about that question for a while. I answered with something along the lines of User Experience being a combination of design, UI, blah blah. textbook stuff.I thought about that for a moment. “Damn, you’re right!” The software, the hardware, working together to create the ultimate experience! That changed my thinking about UX from that point.Key take-aways:Now go forth and delight your users with some kick-ass User Experience ☺By Noah Addy. Opinions here my own.User Experience Architect, Software Developer, Tech Entrepreneur, Tech/Digital Trends Analyst

For many advertising brands, the smartphone can be a brutal taskmaster. Mediocre user experiences — non-responsive websites, inscrutable banners, lame apps — are immediately ignored, while superb experiences are richly, even disproportionately, rewarded. It was only 2010 that names like Uber, Snapchat and Pinterest were widely unfamiliar; now they are mainstream companies worth We are an app-driven society: the average user spends 37 hours per month in apps, So, while launching a mobile app has never been easier, getting anyone to notice has never been harder. The problem isn’t access or tools or even quality, it’s distribution. For here, as with content, In mobile, the largest network effects can be found in social  over-the-top (OTT) messaging, which together comprise six of the This has been the case in China for two years already, where WeChat is The major US platforms have taken notice: earlier this year Facebook announced Twitter, for its part, eliminated the 140 character limit in Direct Messages (DMs), allowing @handles to chat directly without following each other. The most obvious thing this does is to open direct lines of real-time communication between any brand and any Twitter user.The convenience all of this enables cannot be overstated. Many consumers, particularly younger ones, actively avoid email and phone as ways to get things done. As any 25-year old will tell you, email is slow (and certainly not real time), and many Millennials find the ‘phone’ part of smartphone possibly its Mobile messaging, on the other hand, can be both real-time and asynchronous, on a sliding scale of user-defined urgency. Standing in a long line at the car rental desk? High urgency. Status update regarding tomorrow’s grocery delivery? Lower urgency.As consumers come to expect real-time responsiveness from brands, legacy customer support systems that rely on rows of humans in call centers will feel the crush. This is where artificial intelligence steps in.In August, Another company leveraging human-assisted AI on behalf of brands is As ecommerce continues to take a Those brands that understand how to leverage the network effects of mobile, as well as transaction-optimized spaces like messaging, will be the ones we write about tomorrow.Managing Partner, kbs+ Ventures. CDO, Media Kitchen

Too many times I’ve witnessed a lack of User Experience (UX) design for digital productions. Either I’ve heard “We don’t have time to do UX design”, or “UX design doesn’t apply to this kind of project”, even “UX design doesn’t allow us to be creative”. Let’s see why UX design is not bullshit and why these kind of sentences should never be said again.For a lot of people, the term UX design itself is confusing, so let’s start over with the basics. There are probably different approaches to define what UX design is, I’ll go with the one which, I think, applies for every digital productions (service oriented, brand promotion / campaign or entertainment). Below, the list of UX design stages :Regarding the brief, this stage allows the team to come up with ideas that should answer both the brief and user needs. A brainstorm session should always include, at least, digital designers and developers. The more people there are to a brainstorm session, the less the session will be productive. Define a team to work on a project. An efficient team is not the whole agency, it’s 4–5 people (note : it can be the whole agency if you’re 4–5 people in total though). Way too often, developers are not part of it because of bad management, but they have a lot to bring to the table, both regarding technical aspects (feasibility) / innovation and ideas.Ideally the brainstorm room should be equipped with a white board : speaking about ideas is cool, writing / drawing them is way better. A brainstorm session is something which should be active, the worst way of doing it is to sit down around a table and speak. Move into the room, be active. Get some pens, paper, post-it and write / draw your ideas. Then mix them together, define interesting / strong axes to make ideas evolved (of course you’ll need to speak at some point while doing that).Pick and develop the best idea from the brainstorm session. A good way to start doing it is to describe the concept in one sentence. Then, focus on the main feature(s) of the website, the heart of it. At the end of this concept phase, the global vision of the project should feel strong and coherent with the brief / user needs.Once the concept is solid and unique, define more precisely the flow of the project by listing all the different sections : the majors as well as the minors. And think about how they are linked to each other. This stage is important to break down the website architecture and avoid missing any section.On paper, it always helps to draw roughly the concept. Writing about it is cool, but at some point it needs to become more concrete than words. By doing drafts, it’ll highlight what works from what doesn’t and at the end it’ll make the concept stronger.The content map is basically an advanced site map. Each sections / pages of the website will have its content precisely listed. It can be something like : Homepage  background video, title, tagline, button “Discover the experience”, share buttons, etc. Doing that for every page will allow you to think about the content, define what will be its tone, and prevent forgetting elements.This stage concerns the importance of information within a page, it’s all about hierarchy. It’s thinking about what will need to be the most highlighted element into each page of the website. For instance, let’s say we have a page presenting a movie, it’ll make more sense to have the title of the movie bigger than its duration.Define what elements of the website will be interactive and think about the best / most appropriate way for users to interact with them. This stage is definitely one of the most important, it’s when you need to create a coherent interaction language that fits the concept and user needs. During this stage you also need to think about feedbacks for the user. If the user does this action, what kind of feedback will he receive? And if he does this other action, would it be the same kind of feedback? Every question needs to be asked and answered.A user flow is about creating a user scenario which will simulate an action (or several) that the user wants to do (Checkout his cart on a ecommerce platform for instance). It’ll show all the interactive steps (the flow) that he’ll need to do to achieve this action. This stage is really useful especially to think about the interactive feedbacks to have for the user while he’s going through the flow. It also allows enhancing the flow between each sections / actions. And getting a good global overview of the project.This is the most final step before deeply jumping into the visual design and development of the project. Wireframes are the skeleton of the project, it’s a simplified visual representation of the project (basically simple shapes to represent interactive elements and content, simple fonts, and no colors needed, just grey shades). It regroups all the previous stages in one : content (wording, copy, pics, video, etc), information architecture (scale, importance and positioning of each elements) and interaction design (buttons, interactive elements).Having wireframes allows the visual designer not to waste time thinking about what element should be the most important, how long the copy will be for this baseline, if this element should be interactive or not and what will be the most appropriate interaction for it, etc. On the technical aspect, the developer will be able to build the structure and the flow of the project, to start a prototype even if the visual design is not done yet.Just to be clear, I’m not saying all these stages should be done in this order, in fact they will probably mix together at some point through the evolution of the project. They’ll evolve as well.Also, thinking that UX design is only doable by UX designers, well sorry, but that’s not true. UX design should involve all the team members of a project, it needs to be a team effort, not one person doing his thing at his desk. So yeah that means giving time to the team to do it properly.Saying that is equal to saying “We don’t have time to create great projects”, it doesn’t make sense. UX design is the base to build a great project. Getting rid of it is like trying to put up the windows before building the walls of an house, it doesn’t make sense.In fact if lacking time is the reason you don’t do UX design for your project, be sure you will waste much more time by not doing it. Let me explain why. All the stages described above are essential for a production to be solid. Let say you did the brainstorm stage, briefly came up with a concept, still not sure of how things will work in term of interactions and flow but you decide anyway to start the production. What will happen is that you’ll need to think about interactions, elements that need to be in this page and this one, type of content for this other page, etc. and instead of focusing on the visual design and development of the project, you’ll try to do everything at the same time and you can be sure that the result will be disappointing and the waste of time considerable.If time is the enemy, then you need to deal with it.Saying that is equal to saying that your project doesn’t need an idea, or a site map, or interactions for users. No, it makes no sense. If you want to make quality digital projects, unfortunately a good looking visual design and smooth animations are far from enough.Saying that refers probably to a lack of knowledge on the subject. UX design has nothing to do with killing creativity, on the contrary it enhances it on a lot of different levels.Moreover, having a good process and methodology before starting the production (visual design / development) will allow each team member to be much more efficient at doing their task. Why? Because all of them will have the same vision on the project and will know what to focus on, what are the priorities. They’ll also get inspired during the UX phase of the project and unconsciously start thinking about the visual design, the animations, the transitions, etc. It’s way better than being snapped up into a project without knowing anything about it and starting the production right after a “kick off meeting”.UX design matters and it shouldn’t be considered as an option for any digital production. Besides creating stronger and smarter projects, it helps saving a considerable amount of time in the production phase, as well as making team member more involved and efficient.UX design is definitely not the enemy, it’s here to improve productions and build a better World Wide Web.salt dough at 

By: Twitter: @Designing simple and usable experiences are instrumental to the adoption of new digital products. Recently, John Maeda (design partner at Kleiner Perkin in San Francisco, ref) published a report that demonstrates the important role design plays in the success of new startups and technologies. New successful tech companies such as AirBnB and Pinterest even have designers as their founders.Certain requirements however threaten an optimal user experience. Take passwords. We need to have them. And we need so many that we make them easy to remember, such as our first girlfriend’s name backwards with her year or birth (arual80). Easy? Yes. Secure? No. The best thing is to create a unique password each time consisting of a long random sequence of characters and number (KJnnd76RTnns89). Secure? Yes. Easy to remember? No.The nature of Financial Services imposes several challenges to creating great user experiences. In highly regulated environments, there is the need for security and data protection, strong identification and authentication procedures and the dependencies on existing, old-fashioned, but important infrastructures.In this article, we will present key design lessons from our experiences in the financial space across major banks and fintech startups. These lessons cover specific solutions, including payments and security, and design approaches, including pilots and prototyping, and touch upon the balance between user experience and financial requirements. For example, moving beyond the password.We will discuss these lessons within the framework of the three design levels that are important for any type of organisation.• Strategic design: Definition of how design helps achieving business goals and positioning.• Tactical design: The establishment of design processes, patterns and tools.• Operational design: The actual creation of solutions to address customer needs.Abstract from the Authors that participated in the world’s first FINTECH Book. Vote for your favorite entry.

As a tech consultant, I help companies optimize how they build software. I talk to a lot of people about implementing new practices and processes that will help them put the user value at the center of the development practice. But with many of the companies I work with full assimilation of these concepts is a distant goal. Until a few days ago, I’d never seen an organization learn about a process and start implementing it full-force the next day. That, my friends, is catching sight of a unicorn in the wild.This unicorn is called They had done a lot of work towards their research plan. They had recruited 60 people for a group of super-user participants. They had two focus groups scheduled in their office. They were preparing to conduct some pretty huge global surveys. They wanted the feedback that they got to drive their next stage of development and they came to me to figure out some ways to help them do that. How could they best decide which usability issues to work on and where they should focus enhancements?I took a deep breath and broke the news that if I would recommend anything, it would be to cancel the focus groups and redo their whole research strategy.Instead of getting mad, OpenSignal got curious.Focus groups are highly risky way of gathering information. If people are shy they won’t speak up. If they feel like others know more, they won’t say that they don’t understand. One aggressive person can take over the session and run it off the rails.Additionally, a focus group format would not allow OpenSignal to Scrap the focus group and reschedule each participant as an The transcripts of these interviews will contain nuggets of pure gold and uncut diamonds. The added bonus is that user interviews have a relatively small overhead. Generally, five 1-hour interviews are enough to help surface patterns in user behavior and usability issues strongly enough to help set priorities.This leads us to the second major problem that OpenSignal had, which was…No plan for how to use the feedback and incorporate it into their development pipeline. Currently, OpenSignal fed bugs directly into their development team, but no one was really prioritizing them. Suggestions, usability complaints, and opportunities were tackled on an ad hoc, scattershot basis, and the work wasn’t really well connected to overall feature goals or metrics.OpenSignal needed a few baseline synthesis activities that would help them shake out the nuggets of wisdom from their interviews, as well as their general feedback pipeline. A really simple one is the whole team going through the raw feedback and write one take-away per sticky, talking them through and then bucketing them into similarities. Then you pull out themes, challenges and opportunities out of the buckets. These can then be mapped to specific business goals.The main point of having the synthesis session is to clearly identify the patterns that emerged from your conversation and map them to your overall business goals. This helps the team understand where user value maps to goals and also sets priorities. BUT in order to achieve this you need your whole team to participate.Which leads us to the final problem…The three OpenSignal ladies who joined me for Product Office Hours were collaborating on the user research stuff, but were finding it difficult to get other parts of the organization consistently involved. They hadn’t found a way to involve the developers, and so in turn devs didn’t see user feedback as part of their own workflow. This has made it doubly difficult for them to incorporate the feedback organically into the development backlog.It can be difficult for small start-ups when there is so much going on, but I tend to say:I encouraged these ladies to start having conversations with OpenSignal leadership about user interviews and ask them to try to listen to at least 1–2 of the user interview sessions. With OpenSignal, an invite is probably all that is needed, but if there is resistance, sometimes a knuckle cracking is in order to get higher-ups to tune in. At a small organization like OpenSignal, making sure that leadership is as close to direct user feedback as possible is critical to keeping priorities straight.With developers, I take a really soft approach. I book space for them to listen to the interviews. I invite them all to both the interviews and the synthesis, and then announce to the whole team whenever the interviews are happening, day before, morning of and five minutes before the interview starts. This helps it get it in front of their faces. The same goes for synthesis. Leave the door wide open, and bang a drum that it’s going on. More often than not, curiosity will get the better of them.The next afternoon I went down to the OpenSignal office and was floored by how quickly they had implemented some of my suggestions.“So much of what you said is what I’ve been saying, but can’t get anyone to take action on.”“We had so many conversations around whether or not people knew what to do there, but couldn’t decide how to proceed.”There is very little ambiguity when you’re sitting next to a user and they do not notice, ever, that a button is clickable, or that there is another page of information that they can access. A few days later I got an update from Ellie saying that they had several interviews, videoed them, and shared out the live-feed with the whole organization and a ton of people listened. They also did a synthesis exercise and presented the synthesis to the whole organization. In the words of Ellie herself: “Product Manager, Product and Design advice and stories from the folks at Pivotal Labs

Material Design’s iconic Floating Action Button pattern has been receiving a lot of flak as of late, with That’s precisely the point of a Floating Action Button. Given that the iconic pattern is used correctly, it isn’t meant to be ignored — it’s meant to stand out and be instantly identifiable and accessible. Marissa Mayer, in Reading this, I thought to myself — and confirmed my thoughts with a few more users — do I really look at the bottom of the screen? I’m not defending the use of a FAB for Search, despite the fact that I find it useful, but when I’m browsing through photos or any other content for that matter, I certainly don’t scan each row one by one, instead opting to scroll when I reach the lower third of the screen, and as such, the Floating Action Button doesn’t really blocks anything important. That said, the article also brings up the issue of it blocking the bottom right corner of the list, but surely that can be addressed by adding an empty row to the bottom!A sentence like this makes one infer that the article is written without truly thinking the average user flow through, and doesn’t address real world use cases. I concur, statistics show that a large volume of emails are read on mobile devices, however, when I receive an email, I get a push notification that acts as a call-to-action to open the email app, wherein I directly land on the email’s page, skipping the landing page entirely. I also concur that sometimes notifications are swiped away, but the probability of an important email being swiped away is low, and if I’m going through the process of opening the email app from the launcher, the probability of my intentions being to A Floating Button that hides on scroll is not a roundabout method per se. Used correctly, the button isn’t only In conclusion, I’d say yes, given 98% rule, Floating Action Buttons play a rather important role in the user flow, simplifying the entire process and used correctly, they can be an astoundingly helpful pattern for the end-user without blocking or hampering the experience.User Experience Design is a discipline of statistics, perception, psychology, testing and iteration. Every decision made is a compound result of multiple factors, and as such, it is semi-viral misleading articles that prove more detrimental to a product’s experience than Floating Action Buttons. Developers and designers — you know your product like nobody else does. If you truly think it needs a FAB — use a FAB, but use it wisely.

As a team, we enjoy attending different kinds of conventions and see what’s out there regarding technology, design and music, among others. This year, it was designers’ turn to have fun and see what the With this mini introduction I must admit this is not my first TMDG, so I was probably waiting for it to be pretty much the same as last year, yet there was something that stood out the most: A few years ago what seemed new is now something we’re pretty much accustomed to. UX and UI Designers used to be the rare bunch that instead of focusing on branding and print, would focus on the user and their needs within the digital world, either web or mobile. However, nowadays the term is starting to shift from The first example was set by First, he analyzed the target audience that could possibly use the app through research. Secondly, he built the app structure taking into account different options and resources such as tutorials to learn tricks with 360º camera angles, slow motion controls and more. The user can interact with different skaters he hasn’t even met yet, and compete in daily or weekly challenges with other users as well. It also serves as some sort of encouragement for those who haven’t started skating or who have been part of the skating world for a long time but somehow find themselves stuck in the same level.Nevertheless, that’s not just it: the experience the Nike SB offers is not limited to an app and competition, it also makes it possible for skaters to show themselves to the world by appearing in different Nike Store TVs depending on their challenge skating score. This project went beyond building an app and created a whole skating experience that connected people with other people and offered extreme tangibility in the real world.Other speakers like She also showed different scenarios with the same technology and highlighted the importance of the experience just like Xavier previously did in his talk. But most importantly, Kate was convinced there would be no devices in the future and pictured it like the world of “Harry Potter” instead of something like “Minority Report”.Finally, director and educator Our electronic devices used to be quite big and began shrinking more and more every time. They went from heavy and thick phones to something lighter and much thiner. Then came the era of wearables such as the The truth is I left Head of UX/UI at Spreading Technology

On October 1st, 2015 a quite unnoticeable line will have been crossed for payment acceptance in the US, a mandate from Visa, MasterCard American Express and Discover will begin to take effect at every retail merchant that accepts payment cards [1].This mandate shifts liability for many payment transactions fully to the merchant if they do not have a payment card terminal that accepts EMV [2] cards and/or NFC based transactions.This sounds like a deal for merchants but what about consumers. Read on, it is the consumer that will face the largest elements of the EMV shift. It will get very bad before it get better.In 1995, Euro Pay, MasterCard and Visa (EMV) formed a committee for the purpose of establishing a standard that allowed for payment cards to have a secure, encrypted, embedded “chip.” These competing companies were starting on diverging paths prior to forming this group and thus would have required merchants to use 3 different payment card terminals to accept all 3 payment products. Although it was at one time common for merchants in Europe to not accept all 3 payment products, it was actually becoming more popular to offer as many payment options as possible. There were quite a few other reasons for the standardization, but a common and interoperable design was the basis of the group.In the epoch when EMV was formed a typical medium distance phone call in parts of Europe could cost the equivalent of over $3.00 for the first minute. The payment card terminals used the telephone network for authorizations. With a base of ~$3.00 per transaction added to the cost of actual service, there had to be something done to allow smaller transactions to be approved without the need to make a phone call. The eventual solution to this problem was to build self authorizations into the payment card and, while it became one of the most important elements in accepting payments via cards, it is now forgotten for the most part. The other aspect was of course the encryption that would make it harder for a counterfeit payment card to be presented.EMVco was successful in motivating most of Europe to adopt this standard because of the amount of fraud losses from counterfeit cards via pressure from various government entities that made it a requirement. However EMV did not get wide acceptance in the US for a number of quite unrelated reasons.One reason for the rejection of EMV at retail businesses was that the acceptance process of an EMV card is noticeably longer in real life use cases. The compounding effect is that lines grow longer and they slow down. This may not seem to sound like a big problem until you are personally caged into one of these lines. This reason alone made large merchants instantly reject the notion of bringing EMV to the US for over 20 years.The recent payment card breaches along with the Visa and MasterCard mandate for EMV upgrades moved this back to the forefront. As we stand today, there is no doubt that you will have an EMV/NFC card replacement from your payment card bank by the end of 2015 and you will be forced to “Dip”(insert the EMV card correctly into the EMV slot) and not swipe your payment card at customer facing payment card terminals.I have studied this issue, I call the EMV UX (User Experience) Fail, for over 15 years. Most recently my research brought me to Canada as they moved to EMV requirements. Canada is just getting over the years of transition to EMV. In addition, the UK after 20 years of EMV there has been a consumer and merchant rejection of EMV moving towards NFC cards and Smartphone NFC [3]. This trend is beginning to play out throughout the world [3].With the EMV UX Fail, consumers will have little choice but to get to know and understand payment card terminals and not only determine if one needs to Dip or swipe, but also locate the proper slot, orient the card correctly- with a four to one chance that it may be the wrong orientation and maintain a the card in contact with the EMV reader for long 10–30 seconds or more before the transition is complete. In contrast, with exquisite timing, Apple has introduced Apple Pay at the exact moment to have the biggest impact on the EMV UX Fail and the requirements for merchants to update payment card terminals to be EMV ready. This upgrade path is usually free for most small and medium sized merchants and would be absurd to not include NFC (Wireless EMV) as it is usually built in. Now that Apple Pay’s success is already legendary one can be nearly 100% certain that all new payment card devices will be EMV and NFC ready.Apple Pay’s unique UX has been trumpeted across the internet and major media outlets. The experience is that of a simple finger placed on a iPhone hovering over the payment card terminal to complete the transaction.I have created a rather simplified user experience flow to illustrate the EMV UX Fail in contrast to the Apple Pay UX. To be very clear there are other branches and many variations of flow based on the business type and other factors. I also did not include true time and motion research inputs as this is currently quite proprietary and valuable.The EMV UX vs. the Apple Pay UX:It is immediately evident that from the outset there is a befuddlement factor as to how a EMV payment card transaction will be conducted. Does one swipe at a particular payment card terminal or does one Dip?How does one orient the payment card? For many, they may have issues identifying the “Chip” contacts from the hologram. This may sound like a non issue, but think about age, eyesight and lighting conditions. Compounding this are the massive variations of payment card devices that offer an EMV slot in many different locations on the device. There is no standard, it can be in front, on top, the middle or on either side.The typical non-tech payment card user will experience a four in one chance to be correct in determining the orientation of the payment card. Some will just take time to examine the card and the payment card terminal and some will just try and guess perhaps with a correct choice in two tries.We all know and love the very sweet older person in the line, in front of us. This experience will soon take on new dimensions as they are forced to use new EMV cards:Quickly squint your eyes and determine how to Dip this payment card into either payment card device, time your reactions:You are not alone, I have conducted tests like this with hundreds of people. The results are the same, befuddlement and perhaps utter confusion.Indeed, an honest non payment expert insight would be, what the heck? The EMV UX Fail can not be fixed by creating overly simple or overly complex solutions. Ironically the overly simple beautiful to look at white card reader befuddles almost as much as the overly complex traditional customer facing payment card terminal.It is very important to realize that as the above UX flow chart shows that unlike a swipe, The UX experiences can also be dramatically represented in these two videos:EMV UX:Apple Pay UX:Most fuel pumps experience a 47% card orientation fail, even when there are clear graphics. I have studied this issued well. The fact is there are high odds that you and I have made this orientation fail and continue to do so:There is a fork in the road clearly demonstrated by the UX flow chart and the videos above. What road would you take? What road would you want the person infant of you to take?My direct research concludes that EMV transactions can add up to 60 seconds to the standard card swipe transaction for an early EMV user. My time and motion studies do show this delay improves but not ever really equal to the speed of the old card swipe.Apple Pay on the other hand is already significantly faster than a traditional payment card transaction and will improve as more newer terminals are deployed with the proper software builds and downloads.The EMV UX Fail is one reason I advanced the thesis in 2011 that as we enter into the EMV transition we will quickly become aware of the very real issues this payment technology creates. It is also one reason I have been advising payment companies to pay heed to history, empirical praxis and true domain experience in planing products and solutions. Sadly we can see the results in how some have not supported Apple Pay day one and instead are now promoting overly simple EMV devices that are being sold to merchants for $30.EMV is also being side stepped by tokenization and this is a far more secure system. It is the path to the future [4].To be sure, I have discovered a number of solutions to the EMV UX Fail. There are a number of ways using the right technology, psychology, hardware and software to minimize the primary and secondary points of befuddlement and confusion. Sadly, thus far not a single payment company or their devices have adopted these solutions.Gravity cares not who you are, how smart or not smart you are, how wealthy or poor you are, it will ultimately have its way with you. The gravity of the EMV UX Fail is a gravity well that will ultimately have its undesired way with you and I and everyone else. The results are, if one can, and currently this means Apple Pay, they will…If not we will all harken back to the time that Dorothea Perry took her iron to magnetic tape on a thick cardboard card in 1960 to aid IBM to create this modern marvel, on to just this year, the US has enjoyed huge growth, adoption and innovation with payments that use the over 50 year old magnetic stripe.So the next time you are in line, perhaps spending these moments on your new iPhone 6, look at the line in front of you and ask yourself how the coming EMV UX fail will manifest in front of you in the future. Will you say “That’s it” like Tim Cook in the video above, or will you just say:______we can only see what we think is possible...Everything from payment cards to payment systems. Startups and legacy companines.

I recently watched I think of an autonomous experience as the sum of physical, cognitive and emotional interactions people have with systems that can sense and act on their own (or, in AI lingo, systems that exhibit And specifically, I’m focused on what a user From this perspective, autonomous experiences aren’t exactly new. Clippy, Microsoft’s much-maligned Office Assistant, and the Roomba, iRobot’s widely-adored robotic vacuum cleaner, are two iconic products that introduced autonomous experiences into the mainstream over a decade ago.But it seems like we’ve hit an inflection point. Over the past few years there’s been a wave of products whose value propositions hinge on the quality of the autonomous experiences they deliver. For example: personal assistants like Google Now and Tempo, contextually intelligent apps like Relate IQ and Emu, And thanks to a bunch of enabling trends—cheap sensors and processors, open hardware platforms and communications networks, rich data firehoses and knowledge bases, advanced machine learning techniques and systems, accessible 3D printing and manufacturing—it’s becoming ever cheaper and easier to build products that can sense, think, learn and act in wide range of environments. It feels like we’ve only seen the tip of the iceberg.So why the emphasis on autonomy? Though it’s not the only property of artificially intelligent systems, it’s the one I expect to have the biggest impact on what we currently understand as “user experience.”Autonomy breathes life into products. Where products used to purely react to our actions and behave consistently over time, they can now proactively engage us, act contextually and even learn new behaviors with experience.This opens up possibilities for powerful new experiences, but not without introducing complexity for users. This interplay between user and agent is both the challenge and opportunity of designing with artificial intelligence. AI isn’t just behind-the-scenes technology, it’s deeply woven into the the fabric of the user experience.Autonomous experiences open up profoundly important frontiers for designing and building products. They have the potential to transform our behaviors and relationships with the things and the people around us, and even ourselves. And they require their own brand of This isn’t entirely uncharted territory. The HCI and HRI (Human-Robot Interaction) communities have been exploring this domain for decades, motivating a large body of academic work and commercial efforts of all kinds. Now entrepreneurial and corporate interest (or maybe just Google single-handedly) will help accelerate experimentation and learning.The future depicted in Founder • Product + Design • Intelligent Machines • 

Today there are countless examples of content carousels throughout the web. Some put to use better than others. Let’s take a look at what makes a carousel.Pragmatically, a carousel is to deliver several pieces of content that is deemed most important on the That’s simple right? We use it for every piece of news that our company or our site generates!No.As a matter of fact, it should be used almost never. The content you place in this area should be about what drives people to your site in the first place. Now, you’re probably thinking, well that seems a bit over exaggerated. Let me tell you why it’s not.Here is what he found:It should also be noted that in this first study, this applies to the general audience or the “home page” of the site. But what this tells me, is that no one is looking at content past slide one.So the direction of your homepage carousel (if you have such) should be targeted toward the general audience traffic of your site, and the content should be primarily about what your company does, and the delivery/awareness of its main good/service.I say this because, if your site has a ton of rotating content that isn’t geared toward selling or telling of your product then you are losing business. People are not staying on sites long enough to flick through the carousels to see what may be hidden on the last slide. As a matter of fact the amount of time Let’s take a look at an auto-forwarding carousel. This study was also done by Erik but reinforced with an article written by This is interesting because, compared to a static carousel, where the user has to manually go through the slides, auto-forwarding displays a new slide at a given interval which makes it easier for users to consume the content Not necessarily, what this data tells us is that users are still not seeing more than 3 or 4 slides before leaving the site, even with the website scrolling through it for them.There also is an argument that auto-forwarding carousels are one of the worst carousel features to be used by sites, because it usually doesn’t give the user enough time to absorb the information given before it changes. This is a huge user experience loss. Let’s take a look at Naturally an image of a product for an anime title. But let’s dissect further. As the first image displayed in this carousel, what does it tell me as a new user, that Funimation does?Nothing.I get an idea that they sell cartoons, but primarily, I’m not given much of an indication of what Funimation is selling. Funimation is becoming one of the top distributors, digitally, of anime, and one of their products that they are really beginning to push is a digital subscription service, like that of Netflix does this perfectly. Let’s look at their home page.The Coupled with a nice slideshow of images displaying people doing just that, across all kinds of platforms. The message doesnt change, but the carousel images do, drilling the selling point of Netflix’s service.The comparison should be easy to see. While Funimation’s site is bloated with content that almost pushes the user away from the site, Netflix is driving its traffic to sign up and begin watching Below I’ve mocked up what Funimation’s site could potentially look like if it adopted a Netflix-like strategy.The first thing I did was remove the bottom carousel navigation, with small previews of the images forthcoming with something more universal and simplistic. This was done so that the user’s eye is focused Secondly, I changed the main message from “buy this new anime now” to the subscription service that Funimation is starting to push heavily. Since this is the first page the user sees this message should be the first thing the user reads. Driving them to sign up for your subscription service within 10 seconds of visiting the site will undoubtedly increase your subscribers.What we see from all of this is that carousels can be an effective way to display content in the prime part of your website, but only as long as the user is in control. Content fed through this method should be treated as your main selling point to your customers, and it should be limited to 3-4 slides or the user will lose interest. Furthermore, auto-forwarding carousels shouldn’t be used, though if they are, they should have a time-frame that is extended considerably before the next slide is produced, giving the user plenty of time to read the content at hand, and going through the rest at their own pace.Design. Space. Gaming. Techno. Cats. 

We have carefully sifted through through an avalanche of submissions and personal favorites in the world to build this list of the best user interfaces that have been designed by awesome talent from around the world and we are proud to share them with you.Android L’s Material Design is a brand new set of It will be first witnessed as the User Interface design on the upcoming Android L.Android L’s Material Design principles are centered around a much simpler, more fluid approach to UI graphics and interactions. It is is not just flat – it is ultra flat, but definitely much more user friendly than its This list of Stare long enough at this web architect, social media and brand engineer — I swear youll see my eyes move. Writer at When Only The Best Will Do

By User onboarding has really been on my mind a lot lately, especially with regard to launching a website (or application) redesign. It is really easy to get caught up in the shiny and new and forget that while we’ve all been talking about these changes for months, our users were out there using the old with absolutely no idea that everything is going to change on them In practice, user onboarding is important for two user groups/situations:Depending on what type of project you have, these new vs. redesign situations may both need to be considered, and these users probably need to be met with different solutions.In the past, the concept of onboarding has usually been applied to hiring new employees: “Onboarding, also known as This is actually a really useful way to think when considering the “new user” group. Our objective is to get a new person socialized to the way the organization operates, which is the foundation of the customer/user experience. I’m talking about things like:In addition to the differences between new user and returning redesign user situations, we can also consider the level at which we socialize our users:DOING (TACTICAL)How does the user use (and know how to use) the interface? That is: How does she know where to manage her account? How does he know what the core functionality of the application is? How does she discover key features?CARING (STRATEGIC)Why does this matter to the user? That is: How does the culture of the application (or organization) become part of the culture of the user? How can the experience help accomplish organizational socialization?For some companies, the Caring/Strategic level of onboarding maybe doesn’t seem as important. For others, it can feel like the Doing/Tactical onboarding aspects have been overlooked. For example, Apple has nailed the Caring/Strategic aspects of onboarding — they focus a lot on communicating the culture of Apple and owning an Apple device, but I think the Doing/Tactical aspects are neglected (possibly In the end, onboarding is just being nice. Being mindful of the user’s first experiences with our brand/website/application lets us focus on what kind, shiny pebbles we can drop along the way in the user experience so that we ensure users arrive quickly to a place of feeling “at home” with the interface and its functionality. Find “pebbles” by asking questions like:NEW USERSRETURNING (REDESIGN) USERS…And if you’re on board with onboarding, geek out about these Strategy. Design. Technology. Content. Creating digital awesome for the world since 2002. Also, were very nice people.

Let’s face it, the user is in control now. Either a professional inside a company or a grandma gushing over family photos, products today are rightfully held to a higher standard. People demand and deserve product experiences that are simple and intuitive — with training and documentation optional, not required. Successful products are encouraging, contextual and In the past, you were provided a desktop computer with pre-installed software along with a gigantic manual and some scheduled training. It was your responsibility to learn and sludge through it. No matter how complicated or cumbersome, the software was optimized for business needs and users reluctantly adhered. But, hey, it was just part of your job.Today, thankfully, there are far more favorable options available for people. Access to digital product experiences has exploded over the years. In parallel, products have evolved tremendously — though mainly in consumer segments. These rich experiences have elevated expectations for people in the workplace. No longer can businesses buy the cheapest products with “similar features” based a feature matrix, schedule training and set up a help desk. Success is measured by the adoption and efficiency of the product. If the product isn’t intuitive or easy to use, it is underutilized or not used at all. Not to mention, the costs incurred for training and support. If the contextual fit is weak, such as a salesperson needing to access the product on a smartphone, the solution is perceived to deliver less value. High adoption of the solution is critical to success for IT departments. The days of just “forcing” tools on people are fading fast.An excellent example of the “feature matrix” problem can be uncovered by quickly comparing As we review the workflow, we realize the Slack workflow has far less interaction and cognitive load. When a user performs this task hundreds of times, the user is less productive. Also, the user likely experiences more mental fatigue and frustration. Since the chosen goal is to ensure user happiness and productivity, Microsoft Lync, in the comparison, falls a bit short. Slack’s simpler and more optimized experience wins. Again, on a feature matrix, both have the right check marks. Though, looking at the actual user behavior, an obvious painful gap is uncovered.Frankly, this is a case of one product investing time on the details. By learning and building based the user’s behavior and context, Slack delivers a more optimized and less stressful workflow. I believe Slack focuses more on the details and delighting users. If we were going to perform a few more comparisons on key scenarios, we would indeed find wins and losses with both. However, Slack would win the lion share of them.When delivering products, businesses must consider factors outside of pure business needs or a feature matrix score. We need to involve key stakeholders in the process, not simply the purchasing or IT departments. Actual users should be involved in the decision process. They should be given access to the product and their feedback should be used as part of the decision. With this said, thought should be placed on how the user evaluates the tool. It’s human nature to judge based on factors such as visual aesthetic or feature breadth. These natural tendencies can negatively steer decisions. In reality, the details below the surface are what matter most. During your research, consider answering questions such as:Just as with designing products, performing a usability test can help answer these questions and rightly channel the feedback. Of course, we wouldn’t need to perform formal usability test, but a simple set of scenarios and a brief survey are a good fit.The success of a solution involves solving both the needs of the business and users. Product experiences have blossomed and so have user expectations in solving their problems. By involving users in the evaluation process, you can better understand usability value which can contribute to stronger adoption and overall success of the solution.Leader of Product Design, Aspiring Photographer, Designer, Developer and Dad!

Their perspective is Gestaltic — having both a micro and macro view of the service’s system and processes. These processes; whether bourn out of conscious design or consequence of the activities and actions, create an experience for the end user, broken or smooth. The job is accomplished successfully when a great service experience is delivered-There are myriad ways to craft and deliver a perfectly synchronized and adaptive service experience. A great tool for gamification is Yukai Chou’s A user’s journey of experiencing and interacting with a service or product is continuously evolving. The motivation and perception to use and engage with a service on day one, is inherently different from that of day hundred. People become involved with a game or a product, not as a single encapsulated event, but through a series of stages where they grow to understand it better. The user experience will develop gradually as familiarity with features and structure is gained.Based on an Octagoan shape, the Octalysis consists of 8 sections for each of the 8 Core Drives that motivate and engage us in a game. A product or service needs to be looked at as 4 separate entities belonging to each of the The Octalysis is a valuable tool for service designers because it takes on a user centered approach and helps the designer use gamification as a tool to create a well crafted experience; while retaining the capacity to gamify the expereince as well.

Experiência do usuário vai além de uma profissão, é uma característica, é o jeito de viver a vida. É como vemos o Mundo, a empatia que temos com nossos consumidores e com as pessoas que estão a nossa volta. É pararmos de pensar em nós mesmos e pesarmos no outro, em como podemos ser compreensivos com seus problemas.É saber escutar.Brazilian / RJ – User Experience  Interaction Designer at HUGE – projetando a experiência nossa de cada dia. no que estamos pensando agora?

We have a firm belief that because of the many decisions being made during the production process, it’s imperative that everyone understands the “why” behind those decisions. Going one step further, the real aim of researching users is to help us empathize with them, and understand what users love or hate both inside and outside the application.This means not just visualizing who the user is, but to really get a grasp on understanding their traits, how they’ll use the application, and what they envision the application to be. We use a variety of methods to gain that knowledge and though some are effective all of the time (I’m looking at you, user personas), some are used on a product to product basis. To name just a few, they are:Now you’re probably asking yourself why getting user feedback and input is so necessary, here are four key reasons for why “getting out the building” is insanely important for a project’s success:All of the points mentioned above and more ultimately help you discover and create features based on ACTUAL insights from users. Products ship and fail because they assume what customers want instead of going out and asking them. The Mad Men days where you determine what customers want are over. Today, you need to create something (or fall into something) that customers truly have a need for, and user insights are one of the best ways to discover just that.You also only have so much time in a project and the product has to ship eventually. User research helps us determine and define a roadmap or scope of the project. If features and scope negatively impact each other and you can’t get more time, you need to determine what features are critical for a first release and what can be pushed back.Finally (I mean, let’s face it) user research and testing just ends up creating better user experiences. Which in truth really is the Holy Grail we search for in our work; making amazing digital experiences for people. It’s also something that we strive towards collectively as a team and are not satisfied with until we get it right.This was originally posted at: Reader of the Internet.

For the past two NFL seasons we have run an office fantasy league with the team at Take the From this experience, it has become clear that for a growing number of people fantasy sports can become a popular activity, not for the game itself, but because it is a platform for a shared social experience.This experience is not unique to our team. More and more coworkers, family members and friends being introduced to fantasy sports every year by the dedicated fantasy players they know.For this type of newcomer, the appeal in the game differs from the traditional fantasy sports participant. Typically they are not coming into the game because they are sports fans, instead there is an additional layer on top of the game that is more appealing for them.While the competition, stat tracking, and smack talking is relevant, that is not the focus. Fantasy is a way to have a shared interest, hobby and topic of conversation. It is a way to make the experience of watching the game itself a social one.Fantasy sports platforms are pushing to grow their audiences and capture a bigger piece of the ever-growing revenue the industry is seeing. To achieve this, they are looking to evolve their fantasy sports products to attract more new participants with:Looking at the Heist Football League as a customer research group of 12, there are a couple of needs that have emerged for social fantasy sports participants that are currently being unmet by the products available:When OBJ made ‘the catch’, almost everyone in our league ran to their phones or Slack to share their ‘holy shit!’ and ‘can you believe it?’ There are dozens of these moments that take place each week, and this conversation is where social players get the most value out of the fantasy game.Within minutes after ‘the catch’, it became clear that the most important aspect of that play was the look on the sideline photographer’s face as he was too busy gawking to capture the shot of a lifetime. Scouring Reddit and Twitter to find and share memes, GIFs and jokes about this poor guy quickly overshadowed the game itself, both on-field and in fantasy.But that was okay, because that is the purpose of playing fantasy sport for us. It is a platform to have fun, get some laughs, and most importantly, share the experience.Unfortunately, all of this conversation is happening outside of the fantasy products we use, because they are not designed in a way that is easy or appealing for the social player to do so.As fantasy sports platforms continue to search for new audiences, the design of the products must evolve to meet the needs of customers who have different needs from their experiences.While existing fantasy sports products are being used as platforms for new players looking for a social experience, the user experience in these products needs an additional layer in order to foster, support and grow that experience for social players.If you want to chat more about this, I’m game. Drop me a line Trying to bring design and sports analytics together. Founded Pieces written by the crew at Heist

That’s the first Oxford Dictionary definition. For me, “being mentally stimulated” evokes images of unseen hands prodding my brain. Beyond the concision and prodding evocations — unless you’re into that sort of thing — it sounds like a place most of us want to be: our bodies and minds whirring with emotions and thoughts that drive us to create. Sounds nice, right?The unseen hand has throughout most human history been divine force — a muse, a god, or some effect of nature on the soul.John Locke, Sigmund Freud, and Carl Jung pondered inspiration as a psychological phenomenon.In 1975, Mihály Csíkszentmihályi began his research on what he dubbed More recently, psychologists Todd M. Thrash and Andrew J. Elliot, creators of the “Inspiration Scale”, have Now there is both intuitive and scientific evidence to justify our search for inspiration. Religious, Romantic or rational — inspiration compels.This is the second Oxford dictionary definition. To inspire is to breathe in. What interests me in this definition is that breathing is both conscious and unconscious. We can assert or relinquish control of our breath. In his So inspiration is an unconscious phenomenon, but benefits from forethought. It is not willed, but favors the prepared mind. My question, then, is:Pay attention. There is ancient wisdom in this. One connection between inspired people and people in a flow state is increased focus. Meditation provides a link between inspiration and focus — especially breathing meditation, in which you begin to prepare your mind by focusing on your breath. I commute on the subway and I like to watch for trains on adjacent rails moving a bit faster or a bit slower than my own. These adjacent trains are near enough that I can see my neighbor-commuters’ books, phones, and facial expressions. When I’m on the faster train, I watch them slip behind me. When I’m on the slower train, I slip behind, and my momentary commuter neighbors advance — slow enough that it tricks my mind into thinking I might not be moving at all, despite the contrary sensations in my feet, a perceptual contradiction I enjoy.This real-world parallax effect evokes thoughts of time travel for me and makes me feel triumphant, like I’m about to win some commuter race — when I’m on the faster train, at least. In these moments of relative velocity, sometimes I wonder what Einstein might have dreamt if he had used New York City subways in thought experiments. Sometimes I catch people from the other train looking through the windows into my train. Sometimes we make eye contact — a fleeting connection between not-too-distant spacetime travelers.Two questions echo in my head when I work: Today, I’m adding a new question: Can the experiences we create promote states of flow? Can the products we create prepare minds for inspiration? I want to find out.Thoughts from the ridiculously talented folks of Philosophie

É isso que diz o artigo Houve uma época onde o que mais importava para as empresas era a A tecnologia era o principal problema que as empresas precisavam correr para solucionar, contratando profissionais qualificados e criando vantagens competitivas a partir dela.Se você ainda tem dúvidas disso, aqui vai mais um argumento citado no artigo: 874.967 pessoas dizem trabalhar em alguma área relacionada a UX e quase 8000 delas entraram para o Linkedin nos últimos 3 meses.Recomendo fortemente a leitura do Se você estiver com pouco tempo, traduzi aqui os parágrafos finais:Não poderia concordar mais com essas afirmações.Em uma época onde a “teoria” está cada vez mais acessível para todos (padrões de interação, tecnologia para desenvolver websites, conhecimento técnico disponível em livros e blogs, designers cada vez mais capacitados e talentosos, times integrados e conscientes da importância de UX), o grande desafio é colocar isso em prática e maestrar o processo de design centrado no usuário.Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

We have a hunch that we’re pretty close to another large leap in technology, similar to the emergence of the web or the launch of the iPhone. This time we believe computers and smartphones will fade into the background as human interactions and machines become fully integrated within the physical world.Credit: There are eager creatives, developers and user experience specialists who are passionate about the future of technology and Human Computer Interaction. Despite this eagerness, our software development skills largely depend on hardware that isn’t quite ready yet.We think creating this meaningful augmented world experience requires three primary hardware components working seamlessly together.We decided to build a simple cost-efficient version ourselves so we could develop rapidly and test with real users. With the Holo UI, we can map virtual objects onto the real world and let users interact with them. Below is a concept sketch for what we built:For more technical details on the Holo UI, checkout An important part of the experience is how minimal and unintrusive this setup is for the user. All they need to interact with this screen is a light pair of 3D glasses and a baseball cap.Credit We’re just getting started, but our setup already enables us to stage various UI scenarios on the fly and test them with real users. Our vision is to design user experiences for an augmented world that can solve real life problems.Check back for future updates on the results of our User Experience research.Art from Android Jones at LCD addict at 

Companies have varied relationships and feelings toward their competitors. Oftentimes, executives have a “you go your way I’ll go mine” attitude. They’re aware of what the competition is up to, but not ordering the rapid adjustment of sails in response to their competitor’s every move. In different situations, especially when there is more direct competition, people take a more proactive approach, monitoring what others are up to, and actively working to come out on top.In other, less than ideal cases, competitors fight tooth and nail to try to one-up and beat the competition, even if that means spending millions and employing ethically questionable methods to battle for every last user (I’m talking to you, Uber).And in rare cases, companies will pull out the stops to provide a great user experience, to another company’s users. For the past 6 months, my company, (In January, the floodgates had burst open and FormsCentral users were streaming in. Adobe had announced that they were retiring their product, and they gracefully gave their users a generous 6 months to find a new form home by way of moving to a competitor. They even recommended some options, including JotForm. Adobe emailed their users notifying them of the news, and sent plenty of follow up emails over the months, and also posted about the looming event on their blog as well. Their team was active on the forums, where they quickly responded to any questions that users had. FormsCentral users were provided excellent customer service.When a product that you use and enjoy shuts down, it’s disappointing. Many of us have experienced a favorite restaurant or neighborhood spot shuttering up, and we wish that we had been able to go one last time. When the product happens to be an integral part of your business, interwoven with many functions including recruitment, operations, business development, sales, marketing, and more…the letdown can turn into a huge aggravating inconvenience.Especially for the accounts that had hundreds of forms that would take hours of tedious recreation (that would surely bring on boredom of unimaginable depths), FormsCentral users really needed a better solution. Our software engineers quickly drummed up a solution for FormsCentral users: they could import their FormsCentral forms to JotForm, URL by URL. This temporarily put a band-aid on the situation as a partial solution. Meanwhile, our developers set to work on a more comprehensive resolution.Shortly thereafter, we launched our There are certain situations that are truly win-win, for both your company and your competition. When a competitor’s product is shutting down, they still have stake in the user experience provided to their customers. To provide their users with a softer landing, they may seek out a competitor that offers a similar product and partner up to hand them their users. This is, of course, an ideal position to be in for the recipient of potentially hundreds of thousands of users!A quintessential example of this is when Balanced announced its shutdown. Their “We respect how Stripe has been able to innovate, grow, and become the best solution for marketplaces. Stripe has agreed to honor our existing pricing agreements and work closely with us to seamlessly migrate card, bank account, and seller identity data,” Balanced explained. Both parties come away from the deal knowing that they’ve each done each other a favor: Balanced upholds their user experience duties and reputation, Stripe gains new users and new streams of revenue, and the users are pleased at the more favorable outcome that was negotiated for them.Life enthusiast / VP of Marketing JotForm related.  Ideas. Stories. User guides. From the founder of JotForm and others.

In this our inaugural letter, we have some old foundational pieces that I’ve been sharing lately when asked for UX reading lists, as well as a couple new ones.But before all that, let’s start with the Experience Design Question for this issue:Leave your answers as responses.by by Steve PsomasOr, how obvious always wins.by by Pencil first. Pixel later. The tools and tips for great sketches.by As always, I write to connect, so please let me know how I can do better.discovering the world bit by bit as founder of 5ThingsILearnedToday.com, and Director of User Experience Designing for Other People

I recently read My top 3 takeaways:We all know what it’s like to find ourselves using a product (whether it’s navigating website, assembling a desk from Ikea, or using a new coffeemaker) and we find ourselves unable to find the contact information, or we are missing a screw, or we can’t figure out how to set the timer.A good user experience is one in which the endless variety and combination of steps have been thought through, tested, and validated. This means that the process feels seamless, intuitive, and obvious. We don’t have to think about how to do what we’re doing.2. What I love about this is the idea that we can define what success means before we even put pen to paper and start designing. It gives us an end-point, a clear goal to aim for. Without this focal point, we have no objective way to measure our success. Garrett calls these conditions for success “Success Metrics”:For each hypothesis or feature or design element we put forward, the metric used to determine its success must be directly related to the feature. There must be a clear relationship between the design change and the behavior change. Further, we should not rely on a single metric. We want to look at the big picture to be sure we are getting the whole story, as there are often additional variables influencing the outcome.3. Like many people, I’ve had trouble distinguishing between terms such as “Information design”, “Interface Design,” “Navigation design”. “Interaction Design, and “Information Architecture.” Garrett does a nice job of defining them. I’d summarize his words like this:Both emphasize I really appreciate Garrett’s break-down of these terms. Giving each context within the 5 planes of UX also allows us to see how they relate to each other.UX Designer at Twilio interested in how technology can solve the big problems and create a better world. Animal lover and cashew cheese aficionado.

Before we start exploring the techniques to create great user experiences, we need to understand what exactly is user experience.If you have ever searched for the term “user experience”, you might have come across lots of websites about it and most probably, all of them gives different definitions for the term. “User experience” was first coined by the legendary Don Norman in the nineties, while he was the VP of Advanced Technologies Group in Apple to signal a shift to include affective factors, along with the pre-requisite behavioural concerns while designing interfaces. But the fact is, user experience has become such a buzzword that it is used too ambiguously to explain too many things.For the sake of simplicity, lets use the definition by Well, that sounds simple. But how do I do that? Over the years, UX designers have come up with many strategies or methods to create good user experiences. In this post, we will be following the most popular strategy of them all, the User Centric Design process or UCD. In its most basic form, UCD is categorised into three — user research, design and evaluation. Many designers have modified it in order to better fit the process with their work flow or project. I usually prefer the version explained by Jesse James Garrett in his book, The Elements of User Experience. So I will be following his method here. Do remember that this is not a definitive order and you can customise it to best fit your projects and company culture.Jesse divides the UCD paradigm into five — strategy, scope, structure, skeleton and surface. As you follow the process, starting with abstract, packets of information in the strategy phase, your ideas/user experience will get more concrete and by the end of the process, you will have crafted a well defined user experience.Now, lets take a closer look at each of those steps. I’ll try to explain it in a short and concise manner and provide links for important concepts that you need to dig deeper.There are two main purposes of this stage. First is to get as much information as possible about your user. Who is your user? What is the goal of the user for which they will be using your product? What is the context or environment in which they will be using your product? These are some of the questions for which you will need to find the answer.There are a wide variety of ways through which you can find this information, ranging from qualitative and quantitative research, analytics etc and which method you need to choose will depend a lot on what type of product or service you are working on. It is a great exercise and probably, the most time consuming one.Once you have enough information about your user, you can create a persona. A persona is basically a fictional representation of your average user. Give him/her a name, age, ethnicity, educational qualification, work, technical expertise etc. And every time you work on the design or new features, try to see through the eyes of this particular user. The persona is also useful while working on marketing strategies as you will have a frame of reference as to what type of strategies or techniques will work against a particular persona.The second important purpose of this stage is to fix the business needs. Business need is the reason, you have created this product or service. Usually, making money is the primary business need for most companies, but there can also be other reasons like increasing brand awareness.The challenge here is to create a good balance between the user need and business need. If you take the example of Google, the user need is to get relevant information and the business need is to sell ads. So they display relevant ads when you use their search. Now, this may not always be an easy thing to figure out. If you are not careful, you can end up with a service with lots of users that doesn’t satisfy the company need or you can satisfy the company need, but you will find it hard to get many users.Once you have clearly identified user needs and business needs, you need to create some success metric to connect them. For example, in case of Facebook, it could be the average time spend on the website since more time spend could mean better chance in viewing ads. Setting up definite success metrics gives you a way to quantitatively analyse how particular changes are affecting your business needs. If the business and user needs align well, the positive changes in success metrics will reflect upon the business and users in the same way.Scope is where you translate your user needs to features that your development team can work on. The best way to do that would be to create a functional specifications document.Depending on your company structure, work with your development team and stake holders to create a detailed document and ensure that everyone in the company is on the same page.Getting the details right is imperative. For example, when you are describing a feature for a news website as “sort articles according to popularity”, it leaves a lot of questions as to what defines popularity. Is it the total number of page views? Is it the total number of shares? A much better way to describe it would be “The articles will be sorted in ascending order based on popularity which is defined by the total number of page views”.The scope stage would also be a good time to prioritise the features. Work with the stakeholders to define what features are the most important and which one can take a back seat. An interesting method I’ve found is the MoSCoW method where you classify features as Must, Should, Could and Won’t.Now that you have a clear idea about the features of the product, it’s time to map out the flow so that the user needs can be satisfied in a seamless way with the documented features.The first step would be to create a good conceptual model. But what is a conceptual model?When the user is using a product, they make certain assumptions as to how the product will react to the their actions. For example, when you click the “Add to cart” button in Amazon, you expect the item to be added to your digital cart which you can later check out. Here you are using the conceptual model of a physical store for the Amazon website.Conceptual models can vary from person to person depending on how familiar they are with the concerned product or technology and maybe a simple model or highly complex. So how do you form a conceptual model in the user’s mind?Once you have a conceptual model, you can work on the information architecture such as what type of content you will be using, how you would like to structure the content etc. IA is a huge topic in itself and there are whole books written about it. Please see the reference section for detailed information about the principles and strategies of information architecture.Another important aspect to factor in at this stage is error prevention.User’s will make mistakes and we have to make sure that those mistakes doesn’t affect our product in an irreversible way. While you can try designing the product in a way that making errors is almost impossible, that approach doesn’t always work. Asking for confirmation while making important decisions such as deleting something is a common approach. But make sure that you don’t abuse the option by asking for anything and everything. Otherwise, the user would get irritated and tap “Yes” for everything which doesn’t really help.Another strategy is recovery. Give the user a chance to recover from something that they have done. The “undo” option is a popular example of this.A good system will use a combination of these approaches at the right places to create a satisfying (and safe) experience.Finally it’s time to work on looks of your product — interface elements, navigation, information design etc and start creating low fidelity prototypes.You already have a solid understanding of the features and the flow of your app/website by now. With that details in mind, decide on what type of elements you want to use. For example, if a particular feature requires the user to input multiple details, you could use radio buttons, dropdown lists or even the good old list boxes. Try to empathize with the persona that you created earlier and see what option would work best in the their context.Also figure out what type of navigation design would suit best for your product and make sure that your users can easily navigate from one part of your product to another part. If you have a big site, don’t try to cram everything into the global navigation menu. Make use of sub-menus, contextual menus and regional menus instead of having a cluttered global menu where it takes 3 minutes to find an item. Everybody hates a website where you get lost!For prototyping, you can first start by sketching out the designs in paper or use tools like Balsamiq or JustinMind. At this stage, the focus should be on the usability of the app and you can take care of higher level details later.In this last stage, you delve into the finer details of your project like consistency of the layout, color, typography, contrast etc.While you can take extra care in making sure that your app looks good and unique, do not let usability take a hit and follow the platform guidelines such as the iOS human interface guidelines or Google material design principles (find more details about different types of layouts and color theory in the resources section).For making high fidelity prototypes, you can use popular tools like Invision or marvel. In case you want a bit more control over the micro animations, see Pixate or Proto.io.If you want to hire me or have any suggestions regarding this post, feel free to shoot anUX/InfoSec/Cognitive Sciene/Lean Startup guy. I like to design stuff. 

Humans are on the brink of a technological revolution that will change the way we live. The transformative technology that is shaping our future is The Internet of Things (IoT).The Internet of Things is powered by cloud computing, ubiquitous wireless Internet, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), and a network of low-cost sensors. Many public spaces such as shops, restaurants, and airports now provide free Internet, allowing the IoT to remain always connected. Millennials brought with them the age of personalization. Products, mass-produced for the general public, are being replaced with smart products that learn and evolve with people. Big Data, the collection and analysis of large data sets, allows companies to create these agile products that meet the individual needs of each user. Overtime, IoT products adapt to the behaviors and actions of their users to offer a 24/7 contextual and valuable experience.Imagine the Smart House of the future. Common household items will wirelessly connect to provide a healthier, safer, and overall smarter life style for users. Lowes already offers People now expect to have the ability to access information from anywhere at all times, even from their cars. Homes, cars, and devices will not be the only items transformed by the Internet of Things. Human capacity will soon be hacked by connected Wearables. New technological developments, such as voice and gestural controls, will give humans the ability to control the IoT with their bodies. The Internet of Things, while only in it’s infancy, is already evolving into the On January 13, 2014 Digital experiences are no longer restricted to live within windows and brightly lit boxes. The Internet of Things forces virtual experiences to spill out of the screen and into our daily lives. User Experience professionals now have the responsibility to think outside of the boxes that we have grown to love and focus on designing products made to enhance physical life.During the rise of the Internet of Things, having empathy for users is a key criterion for success. User research is essential for understanding user behaviors, goals, and motives. UX professionals should bring users into the design process by using a participatory design process.Single user experiences now encompass many touch points across an array of devices and spaces. For example, a person that wants to buy a shirt might start their journey online using their desktop computer, go to the brick-and-mortar store to try it on, and finally purchase the shirt from their mobile phone. Omni-channel optimization is becoming of utmost importance. The Internet of Everything devices need to co-exist as part of a larger eco-system to provide a seamless and intelligent experience.Though great risks come with the Internet of Everything world, so do great advancements for humankind. Envision a future where everything is connected, simple, and valuable. A world where physical products and services are smart and enhanced with digital capabilities and user-centered design. Imagine a world designed for us, to enhance us, and to move our species forward into a more intelligent age. This is the Internet of Everything.Hexoskin Shirt — Ephiphany — SmartParking — FitBit — Up by Jawbone — Nike+ FuelBand — SenseAware — Air Quality Egg — BigBelly Trash Cans — GlowCaps — WaterBee — SmartBob — Z-Trap — Whirlpool Smart Electric Dryer — Mimo baby monitor — Lively — HyGreen — Shockbox — GeckoCap — Vitality GlowCaps — Nuubo Smart Shirt — CardioMEMS Heart Sensor — Bitponics — The Egg Minder — Belkin Echo Water — Whistle Activity Monitor — SIGMO — Dacor Discovery iQ — Kolibree Electric Toothbrush- Babolat Tennis Racquet — Beddit — See this post on the Rockfish blog at: Experience Designer. Obsessed with creating a better future.

What does a Client Experience Designer do? And what does it have to do with User experience?A Client Experience Designer (CXD) is a new kind of project manager/post-sales engineer. A lot of companies I have encountered will look for a UX designer and put up an job ad and definition that may be a bit misleading to both themselves and to potential candidates. That is because the UX designer’s responsibility mainly lies in the target users’ experience and the CXD’s role mainly lies in the client-team workflow and facilitation.The CXD’s main roles and responsibilities are:What does it have to do with UX?The main thing that ties the CXD with UX is the last item: Justification (x3). A CXDs’ best tools in the ever challenging role as the chief justifier are the same artefacts that UX designers deliver, which are story boards, wireframes, personas, research results and analysis.These tools have been tested and proven not only to be easy enough for anybody to understand but also as potent magical weapons of mass convincing. When used correctly, they are capable of bringing down even the nastiest ego maniac managers to their knees and of delivering peace love and consensus to the mass.However, even though both UXD and CXD share the same artefacts, each one uses them for very different needs!Why it’s important to separate the two roles?Well, fundamentally the two roles require two different talents and skills. And as you will see below they even require two different personality types.The User experience designer (as the title implies) needs to know their target User groups in-side out and design some thing for them that is functional, easy, appealing and memorable. Therefore the UXD’s need to be empathetic, creative, able to think outside and inside the box, good at observing, researching, recognising and analysing patterns.The Client experience designer needs to know how to sell and win over clients and how to translate requirements and client sentiments to the development team. Therefore the skills that the CXD need are: good selling skills, being highly convincing and articulate, able to manage expectations, good at planning, scoping and most importantly, needs to be a good facilitator.In social psychology terms, the CXDs are usually the extroverts and the UXDs usually the introverts and if you put members of both groups in the same room it should be quite easy to pin point which is which.There are of course the exceptional people that are good at both, but in most cases you are much better-off having a person who is extremely talented as a CXD to do the CXD job and someone who is extremely talented as a UXD to do the UXD job.Conclusion?I hope that this article will help companies define the role that they are really looking for more clearly. Lastly, there are many more roles that are painted as UX designers in the market and because of how loose “UX” is as a term, they are all somewhat valid.My message to all companies and recruiters is not to stop putting UX skills in a job role but to better articulate what you are really looking for in the candidate and what is the candidate really needed for.Continuing the practise of painting everything as a UX designer will waste a lot of your time interviewing the wrong people and may even make you hire somebody to do a job that he is not the best fit for.CTOx3 - UX Consultant

Settings for software products are cumbersome most of the times for me. Turning notifications, emails on/off, saving preferences are some of the things you can do on them.It would be super helpful if the settings would be set based on the signals sent by the user.For example, if I kill the iTunes app that pops up on my macbook *every* time, with in 5 seconds of it opening, when I connect my phone to it, I probably don’t want it to start up iTunes. But, I am too lazy to find a way to turn it off. And even if I do, they might add some other app later that I will need to turn off.Instead if after observing me kill the app for There could be two ways to potentially deal with this,Would you use the settings magic instead of manually setting every preference?All things web | Reading | Writing | MusicThis is a collection for general writing, thinking, and opinions.

When you err on the side of providing tools, not just delivering content, you are removing the false idea that users consume your digital product in a predictable, single-track way.Prepare your videos, articles, and other materials in such a way that is not specific to one particular channel, but rather available through a variety of digital ways.Encourage users to speak naturally and without your brand or organizaiton’s jargon as they share content.Replace old content instead of posting new material in a new place.I’m a UX Director building enterprise-scale, multi-screen UX / Former partner We’re the designers and front-end developers working at the LDS Church creating web sites and native mobile apps for 15+ million users.

UX designers should be able to build code for an interface they have designed? By Poll, 79% of a UX audience at #UXAustrailia disagree and 16% But why have UX designers reacted strongly against making code? Is it the knowledge that software is engineering and best delivered by a non-design expert? Or is it because software engineering is the rendering of an idea rather than its reason. Its easy to make an argument that UX does not need to engineer any given experience but I don’t think that explains the strong rejection to making code by this audience.I think this poll hints at 2 underlying issues in UX. Firstly that UX often dissociates itself from the physical making of things in order to form its own identity. Secondly, the research and analysis orientated side of UX is not yet comfortable with design’s role in the physical creation of experiences themselves. Listening to UX experts discuss UI is almost always uncomfortable, especially when describing the aspects of UI that deal with pragmatic implementation often delivered without emotive value. But it’s wise to remember that UX is a modern expertise of accumulated knowledge and And this is why I feel the 79% in the poll are mistaken. Making code is creative and there’s nothing wrong with making being a part of making experiences. In the case of experiences that are 100% digital, code is the only format that crafts the experience itself. It’s an irony that UX and UI designers in the digital world are mostly involved in the virtual creation of things rather then those things themselves. Visualising, prototyping, testing, analysing, benchmarking and specifying, but hardly ever makingAny designer that works directly with their software engineers understand how malleable and adaptable the medium is and how that knowledge resides exclusively inside the engineers’ creative skill. The creative success or failure of a digital experience may reside here. After all, a great digital experience is always delivered with good code and is UX is both insightful and creative. UX needs to accumulate insights to succeed and needs to accumulate creative tools to apply. And that means it is OK for code to be made inside UX and made by UX designers, even if final code is in the hands of experienced software engineers. UX designers I would hope that UX audiences in the future learn not to react to such questions with a negative rejection of a skill just because is has no direct part in placing the user at the centre of the process. Any decent UX designer is accumulating user insight and pulling creativity into the mix at the same time. Allow the makers, the builders and the creative individuals to sit inside UX because the expressions they make can reach out to the user in important and effective ways that (as ever) can always be tried and tested.Head of Design, Orange Design  UX

Assim como um engenheiro entende o mundo da perspectiva da engenharia, o designer entende o mundo da perspectiva do designer. E é nessa diferença que habita o problema. O mundo enxerga o designer como um sinônimo de estilista, enquanto o engenheiro é visto como um engenheiro, o médico é visto como um médico e um publicitário é visto como um publicitário.Justamente por isso foi preciso dar um nome bonitinho pra metodologia que, em sua mais pura essência, é Design. É a engrenagem mais publicitária de explicar pro mundo como é a perspectiva do designer.Existe uma preconcepção sob a palavra “metodologia”. Ela é chata. É engessada. Inibe a criatividade, não funciona fora da caixa, impede ideias inovadoras, etc, etc, etc…Os designers não pensam assim. Ou melhor: podem até acreditar, erroneamente, que pensam assim. Mas, na prática, os designer são seres mais metódicos do que quase a totalidade das outras profissões. Tudo isso por uma singela obsessão: o questionamento.Questionar é tão natural pro designer, que quase nenhum assunto passa por irrelevante. Até a menor minúcia da vida é incessantemente questionada até o mais intrínseco desgaste. E quando confrontado com outras metodologias que não são o questionamento, a reação não podia ser outra: bombardeá-la com perguntas infinitas.Essas são as 3 chaves da mente conturbada de um designer. São o mantra da metodologia. Estão enraizadas tão profundamente que são capazes de descobrir o problema por trás do problema. São perguntas fundamentais para descobrir quase tudo na vida. Para exemplificar a aplicação, vou propor um exercício rápido.O cliente de um shopping contrata duas empresas para solucionar um problema: a cancela, na entrada dos carros, demora muito para imprimir ou ler o ticket e ser aberta. A entrada e a saída ficam congestionadas. Certamente esse é o motivo do estacionamento estar sempre lotado. É preciso desenvolver uma cancela mais rápida.O shopping esperava que fosse proposta uma cancela mais rápida, e as duas empresas abordaram o problema de formas completamente diferentes. Claro que, para atender a proposta da Design Thinking Inc, o shopping precisaria investir mais dinheiro.Todo esforço em criar soluções inteligentes pode demorar e ser caro.Mas acima de tudo, o esforço tem uma peculiaridade: ele dá resultados. Alguns a curto, a médio e outros a longo prazo.Por natureza, os departamentos que escrevem o briefing são viciados. Resumem todo o trabalho a uma ação objetiva, teoricamente pronta para ser executada. Analisam cuidadosamente os dados que tem à disposição e já eliminam qualquer fator que pode complicar o desenvolvimento. Escondem os furos do projeto e esperam soluções pontuais. Quanto mais objetivas, melhor.No entanto, a UX designers costumam ser cobrados por criatividade e inovação nas etapas de comunicação e interface das marcas com os consumidores. Como nos casos citados acima, a equipe de User Experience é apresentada a um briefing razo, que contempla apenas a etapa final do processo. Exumando a responsabilidade de atacar os verdadeiros problemas que estão acontecendo.Isso faz com que o designer crie o hábito de preocupar-se com etapas superficiais do projeto. Dedicando a maior parte de seu esforço ao fator estético e tecnológico, ignorando o real motivo ao qual foi acionado — motivo esse que nem o briefing explica, nem o redator do briefing foi explicado.É preciso lembrar-se diariamente que, ao trabalhar na experiência do usuário, estamos completamente conectados à Ela passa por cima dos botões gigantes, do texto cinza claro, dos degrades, dos modais, das popups e das bordas arredondadas. A experiência atropela impiedosamente a estética. Ela não se importa com HTML5, css, json, javascript, ruby ou c#. Ela ignora completamente a relação conturbada com os fornecedores, as decisões políticas e as limitações técnicas e de logística.A experiência do consumidor se refere à Aí sim, dentro desse singelo objetivo, moram todas as nossas ferramentas. AI, UI, Dev, Segurança da Informação, SEO, etc… Não para ditarem o ritmo das nossas ações, mas para apoiar as decisões que beneficiam os consumidores. Esse é o problema por trás do problema.Nosso papel tem que ser mostrar ao mundo que somos capazes de enxergar além da superficialidade. Além da estética, da comunicação e da arquitetura. Usar nosso método questionador para cavar o briefing com profundidade e dedicação.Como designers, independente de nossas formações, podemos usar a metodologia do questionamento para levar inteligência ao nosso trabalho. E passo a passo, de pouquinho, podemos fazer um impacto efetivo na sociedade.Designer, nerd e esportista

Various users, particularly amongst the fiction writers it would seem, have been making posts and replies to posts whose basic subject is the lack of adequate inter- user communication.One result is that it is very difficult to gather together a consensus, one reason being that replies to replies are not linked directly to the original post. Another being there is no private method of actully just having a discussion between us to find a consensus and that is exactly the sort of reason we are going on about it.As for site-user communication, it is none existant, at least on this subject. Medium, presumably in its wisdom, is making no commnet on the subject, such as we are not going to provide any such facility, period, or we are considering it, or we would first like a consensus, or whatever. Does this mean, like on many sites, that they just turn a deaf ear to what users need and simply plough on giving them what they think they should have? I’m beginning to wonder about that.Keep smiling, life is only a temporary problem

Today is a big day for us, for SHERPA. Finally, it’s time to announce that the new TV interface we designed is about to be used by not only Turkish users, but by millions of people from hundreds of different cultural backgrounds in more than a hundred countries as well.Our process for Arçelik, Beko and Grundig smart TVs which consisted of research, analysis, content strategy steps followed by user experience and interface design has been developed and is being shipped worldwide. We teamed up with Arçelik’s industrial design, product management and software development teams in order to make the new TV experience to be firstly available on Ultra HD curved TVs. Fingers crossed for the new interface to be available for users all around the world!You can preview the new interface on our Follow us for more.Sherpa is a brand new digital experience studio, where user, execution and results rule the house.All about SHERPA.

The onboarding process is an essential part of any new product — it’s those few simple steps that you’re encouraged to follow just after you register for a new service. The ones that gather essential information that will help you get the most out of the product, and talk you through the key elements of the software.Creating an onboarding process is about being informative, fast and accurate, whilst selling the main pros of the product they are investing their time in.For We believe in the process of continual improvement, so whilst it’s true that we already had one onboarding process which explained Well, the most simple answer is (which we’re sure you already know) is that continuous improvements are the most important part of product development. Actually, it’s fair to say that your product will never be ready — and so sometimes you have to make changes to features and processes that are already technically ‘finished’.So how do we go about this process of continual improvement? The best way to find out whether your onboarding is good enough or not, is to continuously monitor and analyse your product’s usage data — any top analytics tool will do this for you, but for Just set up your unique process steps, and you will be able to see at which point your users get lost, or abandon the process.Never underestimate the importance of user feedback either, which is readily available to you during your UX research. Don’t restrict any potential feedback to when you’re specifically testing the onboarding process though, because even when you are researching other features or user habits, you will be privy to a tonne of insightful information that will help you improve other areas of your product.That is exactly what happened with Here’s our method for rethinking the onboarding process, in Specifying what exactly you want to test is crucial. Do you want to investigate the efficiency of the text that describes the process? Or do you want to check the logic behind the steps? Or maybe you want to check the design to see if it’s appealing enough? With so many possibilities in-hand, it’s important not to test too many aspects — if you do, you will drown in a sea of feedback and the results may end up weak and unhelpful to the process. Our advice is to choose one or two things that you will test in depth.For Our method was a very common two-pronged UX research approach: The Our other approach, the From this two-pronged research process, we were left with some pretty good insights on what should be changed.So it was time for our designers and developers to finish the work and create the new onboarding process based on the feedback we received.First up we rethought most of the text, which were redrafted to be shorter, simpler and more clear.Then we removed all of the unnecessary steps that were deemed confusing. We also restructured some of the elements which helped no end for users of our onboarding procedure.For a better understanding, here are some examples of what exactly did we change. On the left are the old steps, and on the right you can see the new version.Well the biggest learnings for us were, that continuous monitoring of all the elements and features is inevitable and necessary for increasing user experience. And that you don’t need to change the whole process to improve user experience. With a few small but effective changes the results can be pretty impressive.So why don’t you check out digital marketer and challenge seeker

When I came to United States of America back in 2002. I made couple of friends and one day we decided to go to eat-out, and I was searching for the Halal (kosher for Muslims) restaurants in South Bay Area to have some delicious Pakistani cuisine. One of my friend ask me to visit a website Zabihah to find the local halal restaurants, and then I got totally annoyed. The whole “experience” was awful. It was horrible to the point that at that time their search bar was way back in the footer. Can you imagine? Someone trying to be a Yelp of Halal Restaurant and their search bar was in the footer? And even my friends who were using this website for last couple of years didnt know about that feature?So I crafted a rough prototype in 2005 about an experience I was thinking that it should be followed for that type of website, and then officially launched it in 2009 after some refinement and encouragement by hearing the Deborah Alder’s speech at Deborah’s speech inspired me so much that I then realized UX is wrongfully associated with the “UI”. It should be declared as a crime and cops should issue a ticket when someone says “UX/UI”. IT IS NOT ACCURATE. It is like “Father/Son”. Where father is never been equal to his son. And then I wrote the following blog At that time I do not have any “sketching” experience, and it is not hard to learn, anyone can sketch if they know how to sketch the circle, triangle, square, rectangle and squiggly lines.What I did here? Actually this was the moment when I finally put myself in the User Experience mode. I start learning ins and outs ofUser Experience via books and articles. About what UX is? Why it is? How it will impact the thought pattern of Software Development mindset that I was carrying it since 1999. Yes, I started my career as a MS Access Developer, and then ASP Developer, and then .NET Developer to Software Architect till 2011. But within last 4 years in my software development (2008 — 2011) I was following a plan of a great career switch.Let’s clarify some bits related to UX:And here are the I came up with 6 mobile apps on iOS and Today I am working at Wells Fargo as an Interaction Designer, and I was the I believe that UX main mantra is how to make things more humane, more accessible, and simple enough to be understood.My mentor Susan Farrell guided me to pick the best conferences to broaden my vision and knowledge regarding UX. And here is how it started:Hope my quick-short story about my switch will help you to take a leap in to this exciting field if you are planning for in 2014!Finding patterns in chaos. UX Professional, Software Architect, Entrepreneur, and Go-Getter — I am with 

Recently, I have been noticing a big shift within a couple of big companies that I worked with in cooperation with I noticed that in pursuit of new, cool and shiny solutions, as well as things design teams love to tinker with, like better usability or more beautiful design, internal teams of our clients often forget about the first commandment of user experience: usefulness. Being usable or beautiful is easy, being useful is hard work.Enter proactive experiences — in short, designing experiences to be proactive means that you employ empathy and a ton of user research to boil down to a solution of one simple problem: how to help people who use my app solve their problems as they appear? For a while now, I have been thinking about this concept of “personal butler”, an app that not only tells you what went wrong well enough for you to understand, it also lets you solve those problems on the fly. Let’s say you’re working with a railway company app — being proactive means you don’t only tell them their train is going to be late, it’s about showing them alternative routes of getting there if they’re in rush. There are two things to get this right: being aware of the context and your design being modular enough to be able to rearrange itself on the fly to suggest solutions.There are a bunch of great “personal butler” solutions around these days, with Google Now and Nest thermostat being probably the most known and most prominent examples.For as much as I do love my Google Now, with all the data that Google has on me, it totally fails at crossing the border between incredibly useful (I personally think that apps that understand what situation you’re currently in and how they can be useful to you are the future of user experience design. And I know I’m not alone in thinking that — more and more companies approach designers asking for help designing such solutions and “Her”, the Spike Jonze’s famous movie was a proactive experience designer’s wet dream. People need these kinds of apps and they will love you if you can provide.Be nice, work hard, build something that matters. Designer, developer, co-founder of Lifetramp.com.Interfaces, User Experience, Develop, Design, Apps, Android, iOS, and everythig about it

Are you experienced? Aside from an outdated Jimi Hendrix reference, this question refers to your experience as a user of the internet. That notion refers to a prevalent term in the digital design field: “User Experience” (UX). If you’ve visited a website, or used an app — ever — then you qualify as a “user.” The word “experience” is self-explanatory, so now the real question becomes,All industry jargon aside, So if every visitor to your site is a potential customer, client, fan, etc. then it is critical they are treated as such. Similar to a physical retail location, customers in the online environment should be able to find exactly what they’re looking for, fast. Virtually everything else is secondary to this one fundamental goal. Now, anyone with marketing experience might be choking on their coffee at that last comment, but it’s true. The best minds in the business have proven it in study after study. That said, there are of course other marketing-related concerns that one must address in any website strategy.Although the process of testing, revising, and re-testing a design concept is a rigorous one, it provides A representative target audience has validated the design, layout, functionality, and navigation. Of course UX is just one component within a cohesive and holistic website strategy, yet it has pervasive applications throughout. The true bottom line with User Experience is that your site’s strategy and design are not about you, your team, not even your shareholders — It’s all about the user. Just as the customer is always right, the user always comes first. “But first,” as Jimi once said, “are you experienced?”Writer in recovery from 15 years of digital production. My truest passion is the beauty and power of well-crafted language. Reach me 

During my senior year of high school, I was surprisingly placed in the advanced levels of both Physics and Calculus. My grades were not particularly stellar—or even satisfactory in some courses—but someone believed I had the potential to excel and that I just needed a push. In their words, they knew I was smart, but I wasn’t applying myself or paying enough attention in class. They bet that by placing me amongst my highest-performing peers, I would perform at their level.It didn’t work out so well.When I actually mustered up the energy to do the coursework and prepare for exams, things went fine, but I did that only half the time, and 50% is still an F. During lecture, I would bounce from asking pertinent, insightful questions one day to almost falling asleep another. It was enormously frustrating for everyone involved. To make matters worse, I always believed I could actually get an A, but I just didn’t try or take it seriously because it wasn’t “real life” and therefore the stakes weren’t that high.This is how I view the current state of so-called “context-aware” applications, devices, and services that exist today. The enormous amount of information available via APIs, sensors, and data give products the potential to be extremely smart. However, in practice they perform worse than I did during my AP Calculus midterm.In this post I will present a baseline framework for evaluating and improving the contextual relevancy of a product. My hope is that you can use this to ensure you’re fully taking advantage of the digital senses available to you in order to improve your product’s user experience.Before I go further I want to preemptively dispel any misconceptions that this sort of functionality should only be considered in the later stages of the product development process. Contextual relevancy is a very broad umbrella that includes the actual core use case of an app or device in many cases. For instance, the use case of taking, editing, and sharing a photo using your phone is almost always applicable within the context of sharing a personal experience visually. Contrast this to long-form writing on the same type of device, which has always been a bad experience due to the poor ergonomic context you find yourself in when using a cramped keyboard.That said, in the interest of brevity, this framework is meant to improve the experiences of a product that is past the nascent stages of its life (e.g. feature-complete, near or post-launch). Integrating this framework into the earlier stages of the product development process is an exercise left to the reader.I will close with an example of a product that has enormous potential and that completely relies on contextual relevance: Google’s self-driving cars.The team building these vehicles cannot afford a grade below 100% in this area. Otherwise the product goes from a sci-fi movie miracle to a two-ton killing machine in the blink of an eye. Most products don’t carry the same life-or-death burden that comes with failure to reach an extremely high standard of contextual relevance, but this should not prevent you from striving to achieve the same grade as your highest-performing peer.Special thanks to 

Having completed a journey of learning to code and design with Thinkful and BLOC respectively, I have been receiving a lot of emails, messages and tweets about my experience. Lately, the questions are about who do I recommend to go with.There are quite a few comparison posts available online but I guess I am in a unique position since I have experienced both personally. I am going to take the best effort to elaborate on my experience.Based on the questions that have been directed at me, I have chosen to compare Thinkful and BLOC on the following points.Thinkful charges BLOC charges a Thinkful offers Beginner and Intermediate mentorship courses on BLOC offers 5 single track immersive apprenticeships — Thinkful provides a combination of BLOC provides a combination of an Thinkful requires a Now, to answer the other part of the question,No, This is not a cop out but rather the truth. It totally depends on you and your circumstances. But, I am going to help you decide.If you are trying If you are trying to learn one skill/language at a time, This is very important.BLOC is an Thinkful on the other hand is pretty This is pretty simple. With BLOC, you will need to do Full Stack immersive Apprenticeship which will be With Thinkful, You will need to do Front-End + Angular + Rails which will be a With Thinkful, You go through With BLOC, You go through To conclude,Apart from time and budget, Your level of commitment and self motivation will always determine how much you get out of the experience, be it Thinkful or BLOC. So, my 2 cents is that,1. Hope this answers most of your questions. If you like, you can checkout my latest design work at Enjoy your journey to code or design ☺Geek. Optimist. Googler. Bubble Tea Addict. I like Colours, Clouds, Infographics  Prezi. I lovCrafting Colourful pixels  Clean Code. Oh , I love being me. ♫All my Crazy Thoughts, Wild Stories  (Not So) Brilliant Ideas

In this post we will look at the thinking of the User Experience professional as it relates to software design.User Experience is a user or viewer’s experience with an application (web site, mobile app, blog, e-commerce store, etc.).User Experience is quite difficult to classify. As software designers, we talk around UX all the time. We constantly explore the boundaries of substantive feedback and criticism with our peers.User Experience (UX) designCan a visitor easily and intuitively use an application? Furthermore, can ALL visitors easily use an application, including those who are a bit older, those with large fingers, those with degraded vision, those with poor monitor contrast, those who do not respond quickly to icons, etc?Can we propose a set of criteria to evaluate a software application? Many times our teams have gathered around a conference table or monitor, with no real substantive feedback or critique other than personal preference like “I don’t like green” or “Add a modal, add a shadow” or “I hate that font”.Does the size of elements reflect their importance? Does the position of elements on the page reflect their importance? What is the primary, secondary, tertiary purpose to each screen?Is an interface easily usable in the event of the following?Is color used consistently to indicate the nature of links and action elements?Is clear descriptive language used for buttons and navigation elements? For example, “Save”, “Continue to Step 2”, “Update” vs the generic “Submit”.Does the state of objects change visually to provide feedback to user actions? For example, ‘selected’ states for navigational items.Is form layout consistent across each part of an application? Is that layout the most efficient, useable and intuitive for the user?Is an application still useable with more data added to the interface? For example, things seem to work well with three widgets in my list. What happens if I add 100 widgets to my list?Does an interface respect users with physical constraints? Are click targets large enough and intuitive to provide easy use?Is an application still easily useable by first-time visitors? Many designers get fatigued while creating their interfaces and completely overlook the fact that the unconditioned visitor will be confused by how their interface has evolved.Does an application respond effectively to the visitor’s screen size? Is an interface easily useable on the following:Author of Rocket Fueled Process (

If recent news is any indication, 2014 is shaping up to be an exceptional year for users of smart products and the services they deliver. Since being purchased by Google, The common thread running through these developments isn’t exactly advanced technology — the hardware and software that make them possible have been around for years, in fact. What connects them is a more nuanced and rigorous approach to experience design. Companies, and the designers they employ, are finally getting serious about interface and integration, and explicitly focusing on user behavior instead of feature sets and aesthetics. As a creative director who’s dealt with these issues for years, I want shout, “It’s about time!” But it also raises some interesting questions: Why now? And how did we get to this point?The best explanation is that the current revolution in UX is a response to consumers’ shifting priorities. Average purchasers of smart devices and digital services have ceased being satisfied with new functions that are poorly delivered in a pretty package — we’ve developed a taste for accessibility and sensible workflow, and we’re not going back. Blame Nest or Apple if you want, but the story of a better alternative ratcheting up the bar for an entire category is not new. Look, for example, at what’s happened in the way we eat and talk about food over the past few years.Umami, the Japanese word for the mysterious “fifth taste”, shows up on the menus of countless restaurants these days, and in the Food  Wine sections of newspapers around the world. But “umami” is actually a much more straightforward concept than its exotic name and newfound popularity might suggest. Just as our tongues have receptors for various sugars, and register their presence as “sweet”, they’re also sensitive to a class of compounds called glutamates, found in everything from seaweed to anchovies to a well-seared steak. The sensations they produce are not new—humans have hungered for these rich, savory flavors since prehistory—but our understanding of where they come from has altered the way we cook.In a similar way, the widespread demand for better user experience isn’t because of a recently realized need, nor are designers employing some magical combination of skills and technologies to address it. We’ve always valued coherence and thoughtfulness in the products we use, whether it takes the form of a nicely weighted hammer, or a logically laid-out car dashboard. The difference today, in both cuisine and user experience, is that our expectations have evolved, and we finally have the vocabulary to describe them.The real lesson of the “umami revolution” is that you don’t need a new ingredient or even a new technique to improve an experience. The LA-based chain Umami Burger has been capitalizing on this culinary trend for a few years now, but the ingredients in its signature burger—shiitake mushrooms, roasted tomatoes, Parmesan cheese, caramelized onions—have been around for centuries or longer. Even the “umami bomb” dishes created in some high-end restaurants are just intentional combinations of existing glutamate- and nucleotide-rich foods. Chefs (and savvy home cooks) are taking advantage of an improved understanding of what underlies the experience, and not just going off in search of new flavors.The relationship that talented designers have with user experience is a lot like that. The individual components that make a Nest Thermostat delightful to use are familiar, but combined in a way that maximizes accessibility and personalization. The same goes for all of those digital services, that succeed not because of a new technology, but the intentional application of existing ones. The “umami” of good user experience is not embodied in a single feature or aesthetic flourish, but in a quality shared by its details: a context-sensitive menu; a physical design that suggests how to use something unfamiliar; an interface that provides clear feedback to every user action.This is a big part of why good user experience can be more elusive for established companies than small startups. For the former, there’s a long history of relying on new features for competitive advantage, and of viewing “design” as a purely visual tool — just as fine dining was once defined by exotic ingredients and beautiful presentation, rather than technique. When I say, “It’s about time,” I’m echoing an understanding that permeates design-driven startups, who’ve come to realize that consumer tastes have been evolving for decades, and that the ingredients are already in front of us. A company clinging to the notion that new features are what sell and design is all about presentation risks looking like a fussy 1970s steakhouse in modern day Manhattan: bland, failing and out of touch.We are an experience design and innovation firm headquartered in Portland, Oregon.Stories and observations from the service renaissance

Last week, Jesse James Garrett gave his talk on Design for Engagement at UX Paris. He showed us a new model that puts the goal engaging people in the centre of User Experience, and differentiates between engaging with perception, action, cognition or emotion.I don’t want to delve too much into the question what an experience is or whether it can be designed, but rather whether and why it is a So, what is the difference between these things, and how do they interrelate? For me, the word Experience Design in an enterprise context is about designing whatever needs to be designed to influence human experiences, and thereby transform people’s relationship to the enterprise. I see no value in saying one perspective is part of the other — for example, However, I find it vital to make one final remark: if taken seriously, no perspective in Experience Design can be restricted to the digital sphere, to the scope of your latest brief, or other more or less artificial boundaries. It is about human reality, and it is just as large and complex as this reality happens to be. And the strategic, business-critical question of how an enterprise wants to appear in this reality is what Experience Design practitioners need to answer. Our knowledge seems to be split across multiple communities — User Experience, Customer Experience, Service Design, Enterprise Architecture and Branding to name some. And it’s really good that these separate groups start talking to each other.Other’s thoughts on that topic:strategic design consultancy, authors of intersectionbook.com / designing for enterprise  people experiences, at the intersection of architecture  identityThoughts on Enterprise Design. Taking design thinking and practice to complex enterprise ecosystems: Intersections, Strategic Design, Hybrid Thinking

Whenever a software company changes their software there are inevitable complaints from those who have learned to use it. The company generally gives people time to adjust, and does its best to listen to but ultimately ignore their groans until the adjustment time is over.However, sometimes, the groans are with good reason. Sometimes software is changed for the worse. Medium’s editor was revelatory; the best writing experience on the internet, in my opinion. It’s been changed.Yes the title of this post is hyperbolic. This is my catharsis. Let the groaning begin.Medium’s editor was opinionated. There were only certain ways to begin your article, certain interface styles that were possible, and it encouraged a particular ‘look’ that felt unique to Medium.Medium is now explicitly backing away from opinionated software. Their ‘new features’ That is positive spin for ‘we are moving towards unopinionated software’. However the highly opinionated nature of the Medium editor is what made it great. Opinionated software is easiest to make usable because you can limit user choice and thus user confusion. It makes it easy to follow what I call ‘Unopinionated software is billed as more ‘flexible’. But flexibility comes at the high cost of usability. I lost Medium.com’s success, in my opinion, is solely due to the ease-of-use of its editor. Anyone could make beautiful posts with little cognitive investment. You could choose it over other editors and services because usability was more valuable than flexibility.If a web-based content editing software is moving towards flexibility, that means it has to beat the ultimate flexible platform, Wordpress. Why try to compete in that space? Why not beat Wordpress by being easier to use?Moving towards flexibility over usability is a step towards becoming just a lesser, widgetless, Wordpress wannabe.One of Medium.com’s big appeals for me was building something beautiful without having to do the graphic design work. I could upload a good, royalty free image that matched my article, and even set a color overlay without having to open photoshop.It gave you the feeling that you were doing design without doing the heavy lifting, and it was always good-looking no matter what you did. A non-designer could put out something that felt like a designer made it. That was beautiful user experience.Medium has discontinued the color overlay option. It is now far more complex and confusing to place header images (and headers and titles themselves). The little UX touches for article introductions that made Medium’s editor stand out from the crowd have been whittled away in the interest of ‘flexibility’.These changes increase the necessary skill to build something beautiful. That is beneficial only to entrenched publishing houses, not the masses. Most people can’t afford a graphic designer; having software that did at least some of that work for you was a gift, now gone.Astonishingly, Medium seems to have taken a page from Windows 8 in their UX design. Take another look at their ‘new features’ blog post: Don Norman in his updated seminal work ‘To use UX vocabulary: there are I wrote this article and realized I had no way to save it. I tried opening the side bar, but that just asked me for my ‘alternate title’. (Yes, some kind of ‘alternate title’ for listings, which feels like an attempt at enabling search engine keyword bait. I’m confused as to why this was a need.)I tried entering values in the sidebar thinking it would force an autosave. Then I tried to leave the page and it told me I had ‘unsaved changes’, and provided no way to save them. If you are reading this it means I sat and waited for autosave to kick in. ‘Frustrating’ is the opposite of usable.Why all the moaning? Only because I As a software architect I try to accept changes to software I use. Eventually you get used to them. But these changes fundamentally change the editor’s I hope Medium will choose to believe that its design opinions were good ones, and give us easier ways to do things again. Perhaps at least let us choose between ‘our design’ and ‘your design’ per article. Something. Medium showed us what an online editor could be. For me Medium has been the best place to write on the internet, period. Losing that, I think, is worth complaining about.Software Developer + UX DesignerNo IT Dept: You’re On Your Own

Delivering a personal app experience requires understanding each and every user. Not only do users have different preferences, but they’re also performing diverse activities, feel a specific mood, open the app at particular times throughout the day from various locales. To provide a contextual user experience that is relevant, an app has to adapt to every user’s preference and situation.For the past year, we’ve been working on tailoring the user experience for our mobile app Anghami, which is used for discovering, listening to and collecting music. This is how we did it:Each of our 11 million users has different tastes in music, which is essentially the genres they listen to and their favorite artists. An example is a user who listens to Pop and Lebanese Indie, and whose favorite artists are Lana Del Rey, Fairouz, Mashrou’ Leila, and Mariah Carey . In addition to genres and artists, we consider mainstreamness, which signifies whether the user is into mainstream hits or uncommon songs. As part of a user’s preference, we also measure freshness to determine if a user prefers recent or or older music. Some users are only interested in the newest hits while others go further back in time. The combination of genres, artists, mainstreamness and freshness form a user’s musical DNA.Daily contexts vary per user, and we perceive it as real-time cues, which is any information we have about the user at a specific instance. This also plays a big role in personalization. The music a user listens to changes at different times and days. Morning music is different than in the evening. Users listen to different styles on a weekday night versus a weekend night. Music styles change as users switch between home, gym and office. It’s also different if they’re meditating, running, driving, or cooking. If a user is feeling sad, romantic, or melancholic, the music style varies in each case. It also changes between summer and winter. Special occasions like Christmas, Valentine and Halloween also affect the needed kind of music.Anghami has a huge library containing millions of songs spanning every country and culture. In tailoring music suggestions for users, we consider all the possible contexts in which they use our app and choose the best set of songs following a specific sequence so that listeners find pleasure from our music. The app’s homepage, which is what users see as soon as they open Anghami, is by far the most important place for displaying great music.Since Anghami’s inception, the homepage was tailored by our talented content team, who is capable of keeping up with trending music and find up-and-coming music they knew people will love. They applied their wizardry to each country in the Middle East, since a hit in Egypt doesn’t necessarily mean it’s highly regarded in Lebanon. This one-size-fits-each-country model worked quite well. The homepage highlighted new songs selected by the content team first and foremost. The second section was playlists curated by the content team themselves. They’ve spent great amounts of energy creating thousands of coherent playlists that span every genre, activity, and mood. While creating playlists, songs are selected and ordered with a specific story in mind and playlist titles are carefully named to reflect the content inside. The homepage excelled in many ways, but failed at adapting for each user’s context. This was reflected in the percentage of users playing music when they open the app and in the duration for which they played music. To fix this, we knew we had to personalize the homepage for each user.In the second week of March, we started rolling out a new homepage that’s been in the works for one whole year. At first glance, the only obvious difference in the new homepage is that the section of playlists now shows first, followed by a section containing new songs. The bulk of the work, however, is harnessing the power of user data to recommend the most suitable playlists and new songs, and to finally deliver an experience that is personal and relevant.Anghami’s brilliant engineering team saw the app grow to more than 10 million users in just 2 years, all within the confines of Lebanon’s weak internet connection. Technical skill, efficiency and scale comes naturally to them by now. I worked closely with the engineering team to build a homepage that is tailored from top to bottom for every user but scalable to millions of users. This had to happen with a homepage that still loads very fast, something our users have come to expect even on subpar connections. Showing users personalized playlists seems like one big action, but it’s really a multi-step process.The engineering team used data science to create prediction algorithms based on user behavior. This allowed us to automatically notice that users who enjoy listening to the playlist “Every day is a winding road” also enjoy the playlist “First thing in the morning”. By making connections between playlists, Anghami was able to suggest relevant playlists based on each user’s listening pattern. In cases where playlists do not have enough play data to make a user-based connection, we find similar playlists based on the songs in each. In that way, 2 playlists containing similar artists can be connected.While this allowed us to display relevant content, we still weren’t considering many factors that would give users a wow moment every time they open Anghami. Think about it: It’s 8pm on an April night when you open Anghami, and we offer you a playlist titled “First thing in the morning”. Or “Best New Year’s Eve Party”. These playlists might be very relevant to your taste, but definitely don’t fit your situation. That’s why the content team went through all our curated playlists and tagged each appropriately, so our system knows if a playlist can show at a specific time. If it’s 6.30pm on a Thursday in March, and you’re in Beirut, then you’ll probably get “The Thursday Sunset”. Open the app on a Sunday morning, and you’ll be greeted with a selection of relevant playlists that span from hangovers to Sunday brunches.Tagging playlists not only helps with time, but also location. Our audience is mostly in the Middle East, where local cultural dynamics vary significantly between countries. A playlist that is welcome for users in Beirut might be seen as offensive for users in Jeddah. By considering these demographic nuances, Anghami guarantees the user a contextual experience that is enjoyable for every listening session.Anghami tries really hard to suggest relevant content. If a user is new and we don’t know anything about their musical taste, the homepage will suggest playlists that are trending in that user’s country and that go well with their time and day.Very soon, Anghami will consider a very interesting real-time cue: the gyroscope in your phone, which tracks how you’re moving. With that information, Anghami can know if you’re driving, running, or walking, and suggest playlists that are perfect for your activity. Note: I’m talking about the codriver, not the driver.Playlists are human-curated, but the process of selecting which playlists to display is automated. However, at Anghami we also believe that our content team consists of music connoisseurs who know which playlists are too good to miss out on and that should be highlighted. So we made it possible for them to feature playlists, and Anghami transparently promotes these playlists, but only to the relevant audience. This means that even if a Khaleeji (from the Arab Gulf) playlist is a must-listen, it will not show for a user who only listens to Lebanese Pop. This multi-level fusion of human and code took a lot of effort, and we are really proud of it.We strive for implicit interaction, where Anghami interacts with users without having them explicitly input information. But when when the user does input something, Anghami takes it very seriously. For example, users can follow an artist or a playlist on Anghami. In this way, they would input their interest in getting updated about this artist or playlist. Upon following, Anghami immediately fetches playlists that are relevant to this artist or playlist, and displays them prominently in the homepage. Anghami cares about every action the user does, and is capable to adapt the homepage as an instant gratification to the user’s input.The second section in the homepage shows new songs. These songs are also now code-picked per user. Anghami will highlight new songs based on a user’s favorite artists, as well as artists similar to those. So Celine Dion releases a new hit, Whitney Houston fans will also be the first to know. The way Anghami is tailoring itself for every user makes it really easy to fall in love with music, and with Anghami.The last section in our new homepage is the Personal DJ, which presents a variety of genres, moods and activities the user can choose from. The options presented are also tailored per user. A listener who prefers Pop and Rock music will see those listed first. Time is also a factor, so if it’s night time, the user will see music for Evenings, Chilling, and Partying.By considering a user’s musical taste, the time and day, where they are, and their movement, we can provide the users with music we know they want. We now deliver a tailored experience so that users do not have to wade through a heavy list of music options they don’t want. And the subtle integration of playlists chosen by the content team adds a human touch to the playlist selection process.We iterated countless times to get to a homepage that anticipates what the user wants. With each iteration, members of Anghami’s team used the homepage in casual settings and came back the next day with a flood of feedback. How often should playlists change? What’s considered irrelevant evening music? Should heavy users be treated differently? How much can we sway from the user’s musical DNA?On the second week of March we started rolling out the new homepage. Users opening the app are greeted with a flyer telling them about the new personalized home so that they’re not surprised by the changes. The improvement in user behavior is unbelievable: 20% more users played music upon opening the app, 50% more users followed playlists, and the retention rate went up by 30%. Also, positive app reviews have increased significantly.We’ve been gaining intimate knowledge of users since Anghami’s inception, and now we are using this knowledge to predict what will satisfy our users the most. I’m very proud of the scalable, tailored work the team has done, and that we were able to make more people happy through great music.Soon, every personalized playlist will have a description showing which of their favorite artists are in this playlist. Going so far as personalizing the description text means that users can have a solid expectation from each playlist at a glance, making it easier to find the best playlist for the moment. Personalizing an app is a challenging and amazing project that never ends. There’s much more planned work on making the process of playing music as seamless as possible.I design coherent interfaces, and get things done (with a passionate team like 

User research has the greatest impact when it isn’t facilitated by the researchers or user experience teams alone. Involving the designers and developers in various research activities allows you to open up the problem space. It allows team members to examine the problem with various lenses and come up with different solutions by giving individuals a platform to voice their opinions and collectively come up with a solution.When your entire team is involved in testing, everyone learns about the users and their needs. This helps drive both the design of the product and the team’s engagement with the project due to a shared sense of ownership.Some ways to include your team in testing:When you get your whole team involved in user testing you’re able to produce more robust and meaningful products because everyone is able to view the product through your users’ eyes a bit more.A beginners guide to running User Research for design teams.Short, actionable advice to help your design team get started running user research today.

Back in the Victorian England there was an engineer who was no designer at all, yet he was probably one of the earliest service designer thinkers. Isambard Kingdom Brunel constructed bridges, viaducts, cuttings and tunnels to build the Great Western Railway, imagined as an integrated transport system. Brunel had this visionary idea of his passengers boarding the train in London and getting off a steamship in New York. That was in 1841.Then there was Steve Jobs, so determined to build computers that deliver seamless experience, that he gave Macs the Sleep Indicators to mimic human breathing; a bit obsessed, but nothing great was ever achieved without obsession, anyway. That was in 2002.Last month I received a package of dog food that I order from krmeni.cz. They deliver late, you never know when to expect them, but there is a nice touch connected to the delivery, which continues to be the reason why I still order dog food there: the guys that pack the food, Pavel and Franta, every time put a small, hand-written note in the package, saying: ¨I tried to pack it the best I could. Have a good day,` or `Hope your Christmas rocks this year. Regards, Pavel.`All three are examples of service design: a technique for designing pleasant experiences, a technique that gives an added value to brands whose products and services we design and, consequently, sell. That’s why everybody benefits from service design.I lead service design at Kindred Group. I always start projects with getting into the field, immersing myself into the context of the people that would use the service and buy the product. This is called ethnographic research and involves spending certain amount of time with relevant individuals, shadowing and observing their behavior when using or contemplating using the product or service, spending hours in in-depth interviews with them, and trying to uncover underlying motives and expectations they have of themselves and their environment. I take many photos and field-notes to document the whole procedure, and end up with a mass of un-sorted qualitative data from which insights will arise. Sometimes I also include the so-called extreme customers or users; those are people whose lifestyle or behavior don`t exactly qualify them as potential target audience, but, when knowing how to look, these people can shine a light how the product or service could be improved, or can help identifying behavior that might just as well one day become mainstream.Ethnographic research, being qualitative not quantitative, is concerned with uncovering deeply-held human needs and unveiling barriers,and potential opportunities. Deep understanding, not broad coverage, is the strength of qualitative research, so sometimes even as little as ten people can be enough for a valuable insight.In the last ethnographic project I did, I had 11 people, who were very perplexed with its methodology, because they had never encountered it before during many other research sessions, mostly focus groups, they went through. They were also pleasantly surprised with the in-depth questions they were asked.Designing a good product or service starts with caring indeed, and continues with collaboration throughout the design process.As a problem-solving technique, service design is best practiced in multi-disciplinary teams that usually include designers, strategists, developers, social scientists, and, of course, clients themselves.Armed with insights from our field research, we go on to map the entire service experience to see where the problem lays, where are the main pain-points, where the interaction between the brand and the customer is blocked. Still guided with insights, we proceed on to creating scenarios of how the future product/service can be used, which gives rise to brainstorming creative solutions. That`s the beauty of service design, it helps to see the big picture.But, the real value of service design is in its ability to connect the dots because by moving step by step throughout the entire customer journey, we are able to improve the service experience in an integrated and holistic way. We are continuously led with insights, which inform the whole customer journey process — identifying drivers, barriers, desired response, and the role that communication needs to have in order to reach the desired response from the customer.Why are insights so important? A recent global study of 1,500 CEOs conducted by IBM reveals that CEOs see a lack of customer insight as their biggest problem. We connect insights to business objectives, and that`s what`s important to our client.Service design is a problem-solving technique; a toolkit that directly affects not only the experience of the brand, but the very process of brand building, too. And what about Czech Republic?These days our little pond has been buzzing with words like innovation, user experience, and service design as well. All of these, sometimes, self-indulgent talks make them a bit mystifying, which, in fact, they`re not. Service design is a common-sensical technique for making things work. It`s somewhat like fixing multiple leakage on your sink.The reason why it brings value is because it provides integrated experience and solutions that directly address human needs. It doesn`t try to camouflage solutions under chasing deliverables. That is not our goal. We`re here to provide the real value that satisfies both the customers and the clients. And providing value is not that complicated really, it`s only a switch in the head towards remembering three essential things: whose problem you are trying to solve, does your solution make sense in the context of their lives, and will it help them to improve their lives for the better. Just remember Pavel and Franta. It takes little.Design Strategist and Partner at 

Creating a “Contextual Experience” is the ability to serve up the right content at the right time. iBeacons are a key piece of this contextual puzzle as they allow the ability to serve up “proximity context”. Businesses can now leverage these physical/digital experiences more then they could before. iBeacons can be leveraged to do much more then push contextual notifications. Things like identifying if objects are in use, or even determining line speeds and wait times.VP, Experience Innovation at A collection of articles created by Universal Mind thinkers.

Yoga is well known as a physical practice. In the United States especially, it is most commonly equated with exercise and physical fitness. But yoga is much deeper than that and is not only great for your body, but can take your design practice to the next level as well.I’m not implying that better alignment on your down dog will improve your user stories or that getting inverted will help you see the world in new, creative ways (though it might). Asana, the physical practice of yoga, is just the tip of the yogic iceberg. Yoga also has a rich set of teachings and philosophies, and this is where the magic happens.There are two core principles to yoga: Abhyasa is often translated as “constant exercise” or “constant practice.” In yoga this means developing a strong conviction and persistent effort to achieve the end goal, which, for Yogis, is self-understanding. This concept goes further to say that effort for efforts sake will not move you down the path. To truly move toward the end goal the effort must be focused and intentional. This requires a routine and repetition. The core idea here is that to reach the goal you must Vairagya, or non-attachment, means to free yourself of your emotional investment in outcomes, possessions, ideas and expectations. In yogic philosophy, worldly attachments stand in the way of self-understanding. This does not necessarily mean that you completely remove or do without those things. It means that you resolve to release your emotional connection to them. If you have something, or don’t, it doesn’t matter. The core idea here is that to reach the goal you must The foundation of the practice of yoga is based in finding balance between these two seemingly contradictory principles: Persistence is the foundation of great design.For starters, the only way to become a great designer is through constant practice. But not just practice for practice sake. Science writer Joshua Foer, in his book The way we practice is critical, and to be most effective it must push to the edges of our capabilities. Ericsson’s findings go further to say:Something my friends and I used to say when we were snowboarding, “if you aren’t falling, you aren’t trying hard enough.” A great designer needs to be willing to constantly break out of her comfort zone and push herself to the point of falling.Unfortunately, the path of least resistance is often the path previously taken, so to truly improve requires The idea of persistence in design is not only manifested in the process of becoming a great designer, but also in the process of design itself.When presented with a problem it can be tempting to latch onto the first solution that presents itself, but great designers are willing to push on the problem from many different angles and push on their ideas until they break. The best solutions often come from a persistent, methodical process of working through lots of ideas, especially in the early stages of a project.James Dyson, for example, in his quest to create a better vacuum, went through This requires persistence, but it also requires a willingness to kill ideas.At first blush the idea of applying non-attachment to design may seem counterintuitive. As designers it is our job to be attached. We are supposed to be the champions of the details. We are supposed to be concerned about the outcomes.In reality, non-attachment is the central tenet of user-centered design. The point of the user-centered design process is to develop an empathic view of a problem from the users perspective so you can design a solution that fits If you do up front work to identify your biases and assumptions around a project, then you allow yourself to be aware of them as they bubble up in your thinking. In this way you can acknowledging them and let them go. This can clear the path for a more empathetic approach to solving design problems. This is the same process as when applying non-attachment to meditation. The goal is not to try and force all the thoughts from your mind — that is a losing battle. Instead, you allow thoughts to come into your mind, you acknowledge them and then immediately let them go.Practicing non-attachment also allows a designer to be more open to finding the best solution. As I said earlier, the best solutions often come from a persistent, methodical process of working through lots of ideas. If we carry an emotional attachment to our ideas it becomes harder and harder to move past them. Which makes it more likely that we’ll stop before finding the best solution.Being willing to let go of ideas leaves us open to all the possibilities.For years now, athletes of all types have embraced the physical benefits of yoga to improve their performance. Likewise, designers can harness the deeper teachings of yoga to take their work to the next level.It just takes practice.Director of Product Design 

Why it pisses me off.Right now, for example, I’m making my third draft and hopefully first post to Medium. It’s taken about 30+ minutes and 27% of my laptop’s battery life to get to this point. So what’s the problem? Is it me? After all, I’m not a fan of blogging and probably never will be so perhaps I’m biased… or is it truly just horrible UI/UX? While I struggle to make this post, I’ll walk through the different things you can do when writing a story—including the ways you can screw up.For starters, I’ve noticed how sensitive Medium is to everything I do. For example command + z (undo), command + a (select all), ‘delete’, and ‘enter’, all work and are highly sensitive. The escape key does nothing, which you’d expect that if enter and command combos do something, escape should definitely work (-1 pt. right there). Regardless, the select all command will select EVERYTHING on the page, all elements, pictures, comments, titles, links, you name it—it’s gone. One would expect select all to simply select all the text in the current section in which you are working. For example, if I were to use the command + a combo as I’m typing right now, only the text in this section (up to the (+) plus circle thingy) should be highlighted!But instead, as you can see on the left, it selects everything. You may be thinking, so what? But if you are a keyboard user like myself (an innate coder quality I guess you could say) then this becomes the number one pain in the ass you’ve got to learn—and quick. My original first post was going to be about my beautiful experience exploring the Galapagos, unfortunately I deleted it twice because of this feature.Which brings me to another feature on Medium you should be aware of. It’s currently very unintuitive how you roll back to a previous change before publishing.So you’ve deleted everything by mistake by doing a ‘select all’ well you’re not alone. Want to roll back and get all your content back where it belongs? Me too! Well, I’m still baffled on this, but if you scroll to the top to that side menu (yes, you have to scroll, the menu won’t appear if you simply hover the mouse in the top right), you can open this slide menu that says “history”. In my picture, you’ll see it’s empty. That’s because I haven’t published yet—I think—though not entirely sure. If you have published and then you delete everything you may be able to save your content here. However, if you haven’t (as my last blog post unfortunately found out the hard way) if a simple command + z (undo) doesn’t work then you may be screwed.I love the minimalist design of medium, it’s simple, and I’m a huge fan of simple. But simple comes at a cost, especially when buttons don’t work as expected.See these little harmless icons to the left? Well, they aren’t always so innocent as one might imagine. In fact, these little butt holes are the scariest experience thus far, which I almost just had to re-experience as I’m typing this. My only warning: only click these guys if you really need to! In case you don’t know where these to jokers reside, they are on the top left of the page under the Medium logo. The top icon (picturing three dots in horizontal succession) thus far does nothing but disappear when I click on it. But I’m pretty sure it is supposed to slide open giving me more options such as embedded link, video, or whatever. The bottom icon (the inviting view of a sun or moon over a mountain range) is what you might imagine; some sort of image option. When you click on it it will give you the option of setting the entire background of the section to whatever image you like. Sound fun?Well, it can be a night mare—no—a disaster. At times I feel like you have to be a pro and have some experience with this button if you dare to click it. For the dooms day preppers out there, here’s what to prepare yourself for.When you click the mountain range a window pops up and you can select your file type as expected. Then you can click the image and it gives you some options pictured above just as any other image on your story does.But be careful fooling around here, because strange stuff happens in the middle of nowhere…One thing to note about what’s going on here is that all Medium is doing is adding a section above everything else and automatically setting it to the full page background behind the content—at least I think. Elegant solution, but somehow for me the image ends up on the bottom and then words start breaking:Then your navigation bars and menus start hiding themselves in shame….However, fear not, for the text jumbling is just a visual thing. Your text is not actually lost. You may have to navigate away or refresh the page (just make sure it auto saved before doing so). As for me, I have too much anxiety leaving my infant post without supervision in fear of stuff being lost, so in this case I just continue writing even with the jumbled text.Overall, I like everything else about Medium. I can be a little critical about user experience at times, perhaps because I spend a lot of time on it with the projects I work on. Regardless, it’s easy to be a critic, right? So let’s talk about the cool stuff Medium’s UI allows you to do.Double click the text in any section and you can make it a different Heading type, you can center the text, you can choose between two different quote blocks, you can make the text a link to anything you want and you can add a comment to that section!So far this has been my favorite feature even though one could argue it’s just an arbitrary option that ‘everyone has’ and perhaps it gets over looked too often.Personally, I like quote blocks, and I like how Medium chooses to bring these stylistic options to the forefront unlike other blogging platforms I’ve seen. Then again, I don’t blog so who knows. But I like it.Anywhere you see that little comment box with a plus in it (pretty much next to every block of text, image or section) you can click it and elegantly leave a nice comment. This also tops my list of likes from Medium. Normally inner content commenting comes out super ugly and unintuitive! How many times have you been on a site and clicked an image for a larger view only to realize you’re leaving a ‘tag’ or ‘comment’ on that portion of the image instead? Never? Then I wish I was you. However, a lot of times leaving comments on specific parts of content on a website or blog is a major turn off for me.Perhaps it’s because you can easily edit, or choose whether that note is private or public. I haven’t fully explored the potential of comments, however I assume anyone reading can comment on sections of your work, or you can leave ‘notes to self’ if you plan on going back to revise or add new information.I like the experience now that I’ve learned how to cope with some of the lesser good parts of Medium. Reaching the end of this article I realize how bitter I was in the beginning. Hopefully as a reader you come to realize my humor in that I’m not truly that critical of Medium’s UI/UX. With that said, some things could be made better to be more welcoming to a new user, and even, a new potential blogger such as myself.Not sure if I will use Medium in the future, only because I’m not much of a writer or blogger, but there’s something I like about Medium that may change my perspective on the whole ‘blogging’ thing. As for now, I hope no one reads this post.coder • founder • director • designer

Hi, my name is Ben G and I wanted to give aspiring designers tips on changing careers and making it to the Silicon Valley! User Experience Design can be a brutal field to enter into if you are unprepared. I experienced much disappointment and regret in my career path. However, when you succeed, the feeling is overwhelming and exciting! Previously, I was a contract UX Design Lead at Gap Inc. GID division. Currently, I am an Experience Designer on the Marketing Cloud team at Adobe.—  I hope this helps aspiring UX Designers out there! I really want to help aspiring designers to pursue their dream careers. I am still learning and that is the best part of design!Shoot me an email! I would love to chat! Follow me on Twitter! Connect with me on Linkedin! 37.787875 -122.392224Designer 

Lately I read an article regarding Repetition is the mother of all learning as we know, however, why do we insist on being deaf to the signs around us? Observation may be one of the best UX practices. UX claims that common sense is overrated. All humans are different in their own way and no one is the same (even twins), that’s why term “common sense” is misleading on UX. There are patterns and similarities but no rules. Rules of thumb replaced by research, data and other constraints(some called them Design thinking is a clear way of thinking, stripped away from misconceptions and biases. User Experience design solves complex problems in the best flow possible, seamless and without friction. Tailored for you, removing the ‘’unnecessary’’common sense deriving from other apps/sites/business models.You may think business problems as long distance journeys, both are time consuming and expensive. Good UX solutions are like airplanes. You just need to log in online and search for the right flight, suitable for your wallet and schedule. There are flights with no or several stops, even combinations with 4-day duration or more if you prefer; some more or less expensive but always there is going to be one suitable for you.To fulfill my title and give a business tip for UX, I have to say over and over again that Head of mobile design 

I had an interesting conversation with my grandfather the other day. He asked me a simple question — “What does a product designer do?” Such a simple question, yet it led to 15 minutes of nonsensical rambling. He left the conversation with his question unanswered, more confused than before. I left dumfounded.Where did I go wrong? What made a seemingly simple question so convoluted? Then it occurred to me — I had approached his question all wrong. Instead of spouting off a bulleted list of job responsibilities, why not just So, a few days later I went back see him. This time, I handed my grandfather an iPad and ran a user test. As I watched him test the on-boarding feature my team and I had built, his face lit up. He finished and said, “You did this?! That’s so cool!” There, in the middle of the living room, my grandfather got his answer. He watched me do my job.I learned as much as my grandfather did that day — the importance of user research. I’d exhaustively researched, tested, and iterated on this feature for months, but this time was unique. I watched my first-time-user grandfather successfully complete our on-boarding feature with very few hiccups.So, what’s all the fuss about? Why is user research so valuable? I wouldn’t have experienced such a satisfying result that day without doing the research behind it. As designers, our goal should be to give our users the best experience possible. The best way to do that is to put yourself on the front lines. Interview and test your users — do it often.Find the right people to interview. If I had chosen to interview football coaches about user on-boarding for a product they were already familiar with, my results would have meant nothing. Sure, I’d still gather insightful information, but how valuable would their information be when they already knew what we were trying to teach them? Your ultimate goal is to understand the user and their needs. Choosing the right people to interview is the first step.Something I learned early on when conducting user interviews was to not ask leading questions. Not only does it get you no where, but you’re telling the user how you want them to answer your question. It’s a hard habit to break, but it can be done. Come with some open-ended questions in mind, but don’t be afraid to abandon them. In my experience, preparing those questions helps me get ready for the interview, but I rarely stick to them. Go where the interview leads you, and when in doubt ask, “Why?”A good way to avoid those leading questions is to encourage storytelling. Using the prompt, “Tell me about a time…” is good way to get your users to open up. I’ve discovered that it can get you answers to questions you didn’t know you had.If there’s one thing I can’t stress enough, it’s to test early and often. I’ve tested users in every spectrum — high to low fidelity, interactivity, visual, content, depth, and breadth — and have learned something from every session. I assume that I know what’s best for the users, but that’s usually not the case. Assumptions need to be tested, not by a handful of users, but by dozens of users. It’s our job as product designers to direct our team to the user’s needs. The only way to prove those needs is to make sure we get what we’re working on in front of our users.Doing user research can be a pain. It’s time consuming, frustrating, and sometimes disheartening. Even so, your product (and team) will be infinitely better off for doing it. We are not our users. There’s no way to know if what we’re building is what they need without researching, exploring, and watching them interact with it.If my 76 year old grandfather, with no sports background, can grasp a general understanding of the product by taking our on-boarding tutorial, we’ve done something right. Don’t give up on user research. The feeling of success is totally worth it.Creative thinker, LEGO enthusiast. UI Designer Behind the scenes of the product team and more.

In today’s digital / social / app-driven economy, companies face an increasingly complex environment when it comes to managing their customer experience (CX). Customer touch points are diversifying — spanning mobile apps, websites, social platforms, physical locations, phone calls, chats, events, advertisements and more — while for mobile app providers, the trend towards app unbundling (running portfolios of targeted apps) adds additional complexity.Much of the discussion around managing experience centers around two practice fields:You can think of CX management as the global view of the user experiences of individual products and services offered by your company, and encompassing additional touch points like customer service, social media, advertising, retention programs, community management, and policy.The question is, how do you set benchmarks for your customer experience? How do you define success? Often missing from most CX discussions is the concept of Let’s start with a simple definition of brand. Customer experience is just one component of an overall branding framework:When benchmarking the success of your customer experience efforts, you should measure how well your CX is fulfilling and reinforcing your brand’s value proposition, personality, and mission. When thinking through your CX approach, it’s helpful to start with your brand (UVP, mission, or personality, whichever is most relevant), then identify goals and success metrics that relate to your brand goals. In this way, you can frame your thinking about CX and UX around your brand, providing a clear context for prioritization and goal setting. Your brand is your promise, your customer experience is its fulfillment.Founder / CEO of ZipfWorks, developer of human-powered shopping apps. Ex-director 

What does “conversion optimization” mean? We first need to answer this question before discussing the relation between conversion optimization and user experience.Let me give you some examples about “The most important thing for us is to know which “user activity” to optimize. This “user activity” can be directly related to the growth of our business (eg. increase in sales, increase in revenue, decrease in churn rate, increase in membership sign-ups) or it can indirectly impact our business results (eg. increase in users watching product videos for an ecommerce site, increase in Twitter followers etc). For those interested in understanding different conversion types better and setting goals for the business, I recommend Avinash Kaushik’s In some articles on This isn’t a coincidence. Google knows it very well that if you don’t position the user at the core of your company’s reason for existence, you cannot talk about long term success and sustainability. Same mentality applies to the discipline of “conversion optimization”. You cannot talk about optimizing your conversions or business results without optimizing your site or app for the user experience. If you are focused on your user and prioritize your optimization efforts for the user experience, but still see decreasing conversion rates or non-improving business results, you might want to revisit how you defined your goals or conversions. The screenshot below is from the homepage of one of the most popular news sites in Turkey. The headline of the news article (in the carousel) says: “Are schools cancelled due to bad weather?”And the following screenshot is from the detail page you see after clicking the headline link on the homepage. The title of the news article on the detail page is the same — they repeat the same question: “Are schools cancelled due to bad weather?”. But when you scroll down, you’ll find the information you are trying to reach: “Governorship of Istanbul announced that schools will be open tomorrow”:By not showing the key information (that the user looks for) in the headline on the homepage, this news site tries to motivate the user to click the headline and read the news article on the detail page. Their aim is to increase their pageview (PV) numbers (actually, they double the PV per user by forcing the user to click the headline to get the news). Besides, they want their users to scroll down the detail page by not showing the key information in the headline on the detail page. With this approach, they try to optimize their user engagement metrics in the short term (eg. percentage of users who scroll down, percentage of users who stay on the site longer than average etc.)To summarize, this news site tries to optimize for the following metrics: These short term focused optimization efforts aim to We can say that this news site is successful in Users consistently compare their experiences on different sites and tend to visit sites or use apps more which provide a more efficient experience for them. In this case, users will shift to visiting other news sites which provide a more effortless experience for them. That’s why the exemplified news site will lose their users in the long term although they optimize their ad revenues in the short term. The lesson here:The screenshot below is from Let’s assume that you succeeded in closing this pop-up screen, and having the joy of this little achievement, you want to focus on reading your article. But what is that? After your first “scroll activity” (even before finishing to read your first paragraph), the site asks another thing from you. This time they want you to like them. Yes, this is true. THEY WANT YOU LIKE THEM without allowing you to engage with their content. It is not very difficult to anticipate the potential user reaction here. This is a great example of why Facebook still haven’t launched a “DISLIKE” button.If you don’t focus on your users first being obsessed with your short term revenues, your “user focused” competitors will overcome you, and you will lose the game. Never forget this:Analytics and Conversion Consultant at Google - blogger, traveler, coffee addict, veteran swimmer, ex-cycler

Many of us are familiar with a request to justify any project from the return on investment (ROI) perspective.Metrics are an important topic when it comes to customer experience (CX). They identify the value of good CX and provide a quantitative foundation for CX efforts to compete for funding with other areas of the business.Here are a few case studies investing in CX provides a great ROI.========================================CEO 

Can we A/B test all three shades of blue of the ‘learn more’ button? Will the thumbnail of the stylish hipster millennial work better than the young Gen Z female listening to music? Sound familiar? As digital marketers, we lay awake at 3AM with these questions on our mind.While marketers can get painfully obsessed about call-to-action buttons and copy variations, what do consumers think of all of this?Not buying it? Chew on this:If you read the media trades, you’ve likely seen a surplus of stories on the rise of ad blockers, especially as iOS 9 has come out with ad blocking extensions. In a matter of months, ad blocking has turned from a marginally disturbing trend for ad-supported business models to a full-blown disaster that’s edging into mainstream reality.Ad blockers are now being used by Here’s a summary of leading developments in the recent ad blocking narrative:This revolt against advertising may be relatively new to digital, but certainly not other ad formats. Fifteen years ago, television ads were simply part of the user experience. You got your 60-minute show in exchange for 13 minutes of ads. Fast forward to today: the use of DVR, TiVo and over-the-top services is so ubiquitous even my grandpa is now watching Golden Girls free of commercials.The ability to circumvent TV ads is translating to digital advertising with the advancement of technology. Forget about The media industry is finally reacting to the proliferation of ad blocking. So far, here are some of the push-backs:The drawback with these responses is they’re not addressing the real underlying problem, which is people’s entrenched aversion to digital ads. Further, these reactions are squarely protecting the publisher’s interests and impression status quo.In order for an ad supported business model to thrive, consumers, brands, and publishers must have a symbiotic relationship.Native advertising can solve this dilemma. Native is perhaps the only advertising we have left.As native advertising came on the scene in 2012, it held promise to liberate the web of display ads with more relevant, less disruptive ad formats. For struggling publishers, native possessed the potential to accelerate new revenue streams. For consumers, instead of downright ignoring banner ads, native offered an Today, we’re starting to see native expectations come to fruition. According to This is where native shines even brighter as new cool kid on the advertising block. While display, pop up and pre-roll ads have been the primary target of ad blocking, native advertising has been largely shielded from the technology. However, that will change as ad blocking sophistication grows.Native has its share of constraints, whether it’s disclosure and labeling, scalability issues or lack of consistent measurement. Clearly, this three-year-old trend needs some time to mature. The good news is there’s still time to safeguard it from going the down the same reader-less path as display ads.Though native may not be a simple turnkey solution to ad blocking or the diminishing display ad business, it’s the most viable way forward for all stakeholders. Native, if done smartly, can scale and forge a genuine win-win-win for the advertiser, the publisher, and most importantly, the audience.Facebook Instant Articles, Snapchat Discover and Apple News. These apps represent the new movement of publishing custom content (not just links) inside the walled gardens of mobile platforms. In-app publishing is important for two big reasons: Ad blockers cannot currently reach apps, and the content is highly native to mobile and optimized for the best user experience.The demand for these offerings will only increase as users move more towards mobile. In-app publishing checks all the golden boxes; mobile, native, and ad-block free. If publishers and social platforms can strike a balance between mutual monetization and user experience, in-app will deliver enormous value to advertisers and publishers through large engaged audiences and premium ad rates.Publishers such as Innovative publishers believe “advertising” is not merely relegated the right side of a website. Instead, advertising is more cohesive to their experience and can be as compelling as their editorial. Case in point; BuzzFeed and Purina’s Perhaps the two of the hottest areas of media; native and programmatic appear to be colliding. This convergence runs the risk of deconstructing native ads into tiny little pieces; a headline, a logo, an image. From there the pieces are matched and served programmatically based on a unique user’s attribution first and third party data, which its accuracy can vary greatly.As a result of technology and algorithms taking control, these ads are often out of context and start to lose their native value. You may get scale and efficiency with native programmatic, but authenticity and relevance for the user frequently suffers. As Matt Crenshaw Judging by the developer of a major Here’s the proposition; replace annoying pop ups and ‘buy now’ banners for sparingly served in-stream native ads that blend into the editorial nature and style of the site.It seems everyone tends to initially focus on the format of native, but underestimate the function of it. In order for native to be intrinsically native, the content inside of the native unit must also amalgamate into the experience and environment.Brands need to understand that the move to native means much more than a new fancy version of display ads. The content injected into native ads must be as good or better than the editorial content that surrounds it. It’s the only way a brand’s content can win in this new world.Impressions and clicks rule the media kingdom. Despite most media professionals recognizing that metrics are very shallow to advertisers goals, consequential change to measurement has yet to happen. The answer to why we see sites covered with banners and pop-ups largely lie in the simple fact that CPM targets epitomize the ultimate KPIs for media agencies and brand executives.The ‘Publishers like The value prop is very compelling; audience-driven content plus distribution. Traditional agencies can’t offer the latter unless it comes in the form of an incremental media budget. Plus agencies tend to be laser focused on a brand’s brief unlike a publisher who’s incorporating their institutional knowledge of their audience in how and why they create content for them on behalf of brands.Ad-blocking doesn’t beckon Armageddon for digital advertising; rather, it could be best thing to happen to the digital advertising. The upsurge in ad blocking teaches us that we’ve lost sight of the audience and its connection to advertising.Ad blockers push us to transform in an already rapidly changing industry. Failure to adopt is not an option. We can, and we must change the current model and move from the age of disruption to a new era of human-centric advertising._______________Luke Kintigh is a global media and content strategist at Intel.Recognized as a Looking for the ultimate guide on content distribution? Intel global content + media strategist by day. Husband of Jackie + Father of Kasen and Kyler by night. Die-hard Duck fan and Proud Oregonian.

The proliferation of screen sizes and device choices has given rise to “responsive” as a popular design approach for how to address nuanced differences from screen to screen.It is a discipline that typically puts mobile (as the smallest screen) first and then scales upward and leverages fluid grids, flexible media, CSS styles and serverside componentry to deliver an optimal viewing experience of a single property across multiple screens.However it has occurred to me that perhaps the approach to how we apply the rules of responsiveness need to be looked at from a completely different angle and we are only focusing, very narrowly, on uniform compartmentalized grids with content perfectly tucked into neatly padded walls as the extent of what responsive design represents in its simplest form.Basically we put too much weight on the visual screen as the main factor for what kind of experience we serve up.It surprises me that we rarely consider the many other types of online or digital experiences that users enjoy engaging with. So I challenged myself to start exploring ways to offer up interface experiences based on how often a user engages with a certain type of design or platform configuration.For example. I do not like Facebook, I do not like how distracting it is, I do not like how it organizes its content nor do I like the way it mixes media in a way that is distracting, it diminishes my experience and ruins the purpose of why I use the site.Twitter on the other hand is one of my favorite user experiences. I like the frequency of updates, I like the stripped down design, I like the brevity of the content and I like how media is neatly tucked away in expandable cards.On the other hand my wife loves Instagram and Tumblr. She enjoys the visual layout and the type of content her connections share.Her ideal experience across the web should be similar to those she primarily enjoys.As social networks and utility platforms help us better focus and organize the way we choose to experience the internet we as architects of these experiences should in turn seek to dynamically emulate those experiences based on a users proclivity towards those frameworks and how they appeal to specific users.Considering the fact that most of if not all of our social data now travels with us from place to place why wouldn’t the frequency of engagement across those platforms be taken into consideration around how other experiences are delivered?The term responsive in many ways resembles the term agile. Agile is something that can only take place when all stakeholders are on board with the philosophy.Many times a client or potential client will inquire if I run my group in an agile fashion. I typically will kindly respond, only if you run yours that way. The term responsive begs for that same kind of mutual respect. Responsiveness is something that is not just cosmetic but can be expended into an entire experience that is informed by user behavior and preference.Consumers listen and then respond. Listen, respond, listen, respond, listen, respond.Picture a souk deep in some exotic Mediterranean locale and now think about all of the complex reactions and triggers that are fired off constantly as each vendor is trying to out experience the other all in real time and at the same time.Conditions constantly change, weather, lighting, supply, traffic, all of these factor into the success of the buyer buying and the seller selling. Commerce is one of those human activities that require a healthy amount of instinct, reaction, consideration and strategy.But on the web and across new digital channels the excitement and spontaneity of commerce has been greatly dumbed down as to allow for big corporations to slow down this dynamic process in order to gain more control of all of the variances needed to track and measure the effectiveness of the experience.These corporations essentially strip away all of the personal adventure and excitement and have replaced it with a single user experience that is supposed to appease everyone.Through this thought exercise of a theory I am calling responsive experience I am attempting to seek out new ways to emulate the hustle, excitement and highly preferential nature of a thriving market while still ensuring that it is trackable and measurable.The attention paid to responsive design and the focus of energy over making sure the communications we craft look perfect on every screen creates an imbalance in how we create experiences on digital platforms.Online destinations like Zappos and Amazon offer exceptional customer service and value in exchange for the lack of real personalized experience. They actually sterilize the experience in a way that makes it as uniform as possible for everyone.However I believe that there is an opportunity to leverage a dynamic channel mechanism that harnesses customer data, particularly social data around the kinds of experiences that customers already enjoy and in turn give them those experiences when they arrive at those destinations.This is only the beginning, I have a lot of thinking to do around this topic and invite any comments or additional thoughts. I will try to build a prototype and share it out in the near future for all to play with.Stay tuned.♛ Director Creative Technology, North America 

All through film school, the first thing I would do when starting a new film project was make a website for it. I don’t mean a Tumblr or anything like that. I mean handcoding HTML / CSS, and really thinking about the design.I found that my favorite part of a project was making the website. Fast-forward to now and — you guessed it — I work in the tech industry making websites.Lately, I’ve been really into user experience design. It just makes sense to me. But I really started to wonder In film, when you start a story, you want to define your characters. Defining a character is very similar to defining a user persona. If you want a character to resonate with your audience, the character needs to be grounded in reality, much like user personas need to be based on sample segments of a product’s audience. Just like an actor might try to understand a character’s motivations, so must a user experience designer delve into the motivations (and behavior) of a persona.Sketch, sketch, sketch. I did a lot of sketching when planning shots and scenes. Now I do a lot of sketches to plan websites and generate several ideas. A storyboard is a way to quickly explore how a film will ultimately look like and flow, much in the same way a low-fidelity wireframe explores the layout of a website or product. All my years of sketching shots really prepared me to sketch page layouts effectively.When you plan a scene, you create a shot list of all of the different types of shots you will need to create the scene: different angles, close-ups, establishing shots. When you plan a website, you need to understand all of the different types of content that will go on the page: audio, video, text. All of those different pieces make a whole, and in both cases, they need to be accounted for and carefully planned.Which demographic should the film go after? How did the movie play in a room full of a certain demographic? What feedback did they have? A lot of these questions can be applied to user testing. What is the demographic for the product? How did the demographic respond to the product? While in film it is harder to iterate on feedback (reshoots can be costly), we are lucky that in tech, we can iterate faster and cheaper — especially if we perform user testing early and often.Those are some of the examples that I feel are directly relatable to each other. There are other skills I picked up in film school that help me with user experience design.Everyone’s career path is different. Part of what drew me to film was my desire to create experiences and tell stories. I feel I get to do that every day in tech, just in a slightly different way.Core organizer for 

Having an open mind means being willing to consider or receive different ways of thinking. It means being flexible and adaptive to new experiences or ideas. Developing an open mind happens through critical thinking, reasoning and embracing your unknown.So, you want to be an experience designer? You MUST have an open mind. You need to be able to “become” another person, and not just another person, a set of people and, sometimes, multiple sets of people. And those people change depending on the product you’re designing for. You’ll do research to figure out who the product is even trying to speak to and then you have to BE those people, stand up for them and make sure their needs are being met.To become someone else takes being receptive and tolerant, no discrimination allowed. You have to be willing to accept all walks of life and even “live in their shoes” for the duration of your project. Open-minded individuals are willing to change their views and, at times, even their behavior, when presented with new facts and evidence.An open perspective helps with solving user experience problems. Allowing you to approach problems in more than one way and find more creative and inventive ways of solving it. In a world where standards and trends are changing every minute, we need to give ourselves options with a broad mindset so innovative solutions are more available to us.I feel lucky to have chosen an avenue for my career that allows me to be surrounded by like-minded individuals. By people who are willing to experience new perspectives and actively cultivating ideas to solve problems for those perspectives.Product Designer at Uber. BDW grad.Thoughts and stories from BDW, a 50 week graduate program dedicated to re:designing, re:imagining and re:working the digital world.

Many european/swiss companies are doing business in China, some are performing, some don’t. Most underestimate the power of design and user experience to sell more on a specific market.I know very few design companies who are given a clear impact of their design on sales/profits. And they are usually big players working on huge design cases.But even Ziba (one of the world leading design company) is having hard time to evaluate their impact for each project. Most of their projects online have no figures of any sort.And the tools developed to measure them are usually working better with integrated design departments, rather than external design consultancies, because their actions are much more holistic and impacting on the companies business.We will need to have a much more generic approach to it — talking about the benefits of using design in general, like in this video (in French, sorry folks)Agent d’innovation

Das vorweg: Ich liebe Schmuck von Heute nun war ich sowieso zum Mittagessen in der Nähe der Düsseldorfer City, und beim Anziehen zuvor war mir aufgefallen, dass mir zu einigen neuen Kleidungsstücken genau eines der beiden bereits probierten Colliers genau richtig passen würde. Außerdem hatte ich das Gefühl, nach vielen Wochen voll mit Arbeit und Dienstreisen eine kleine Belohnung verdient zu haben. Zeit und Muße hatten wir auch.Also fuhren wir die paar Kilometer in die Innenstadt auch noch, reihten uns in den Parksuchverkehr auf der Kö ein und stellten uns in eines der dortigen Parkhäuser. Dann waren es nur noch fünf Fußminuten in die Gleich imErdgeschoss war die Coeur-de-Lion-Vitrine sofort zu sehen. Ebenfalls auf den ersten Blick zu erkennen: Es war keine einzige Halskette in Pastellfarben vorhanden, sondern nur solche in kräftigen Tönen, wie ich sie bereits besitze.Etwas schwerer auszumachen: eine Fachkraft, die ich fragen konnte. Denn obgleich sich in der Schmuckabteilung gerade wenige Kunden aufhielten, standen mehrere Verkäuferinnen — beschäftigt mit anderen Dingen — mit dem Rücken zu mir hinter dem Verkaufstresen, und ich musste mich zunächst stimmlich deutlich bemerkbar machen. Bereits die dritte, dann herbeigerufene Verkäuferin konnte mir Auskunft geben: “Wir haben nur das, was Sie hier sehen. Wir kriegen von der Marke immer mal was rein. Aber ich kann Ihnen nicht sagen, wann und auch nicht, was. Da müssten Sie einfach immer mal wiederkommen.”Ich: “Erstens bin ich hier nicht so häufig, und die Anfahrt ist mit einigem Aufwand verbunden. Zweitens hätte ich gerne eine bestimmte Art von Halskette, und das bald.”Verkäuferin (nach hinten gewandt): “Frau Soundso, können wir Schmuck bestellen? Nee, oder? (wieder zu mir gewandt:) Nein, können wir nicht. Wir haben auch keinen Katalog. Wir hatten mal mehr Schmuck von der Marke. Hat sich aber wohl nicht gelohnt.”Ich: “Ich weiß, dass Sie nichts dafür können und dass es für Sie persönlich blöd ist. Aber wie will Ihr Arbeitgeber sich gegen Angebote im Internet durchsetzen, wenn ich hier sogar weniger Kundendienst bekomme und keine Möglichkeit habe, meine eindeutige Kaufbereitschaft umzusetzen?”Verkäuferin: “Ja, das ist sehr schlecht für uns, denn es gefährdet unsere Arbeitsplätze. Aber wir können nichts machen. Wir sollten eigentlich mal hier in der Schmuckabteilung Tablets bekommen, wo die Kunden sich den Schmuck bestellen und dann hier abholen können …”Ich: “Aber Schmuck aussuchen, ohne ihn anzuprobieren, das kann ich auch auf meinem eigenen Tablet, auf meinem eigenen Sofa. Unterschied: Ich muss nicht irgendwo eine halbe Stunde hinfahren und sechs Euro Parkgebühr bezahlen. Und zurückgeben kann ich ihn nach dem Anprobieren auch.”Verkäuferin: “Kann man nichts machen. Tut mir leid.”Wir haben dann noch gefragt, ob sie in Düsseldorf eine andere Bezugsquelle für “Coeur de lion”-Schmuck kennen würden. Aber, obgleich sie willig war, uns zu helfen, kannte sie sich damit nicht aus. Internet hatte sie — im Gegensatz zu uns, die wir Smartphones dabei hatten — auch nicht. Wir haben aber auch kein Geschäft in der Nähe finden können.Ich bin also ohne Schmuck nach Hause gefahren. Auf dem Rückweg ist mir dann eingefallen, dass ich noch eine tolle ältere Halskette in Pastelltönen besitze, die nur mal neu aufgezogen werden muss. Vielleicht schaue ich auch noch mal im Web nach meinen bereits anprobierten Halsketten. Aber erstmal ist mir die spontane Kauflust vergangen.Warum ich das erzähle? Sicher nicht, weil ich jetzt persönlich so frustiert wäre. Ich habe an diesem schönen, müßigen Tag noch anderswo andere schöne Sachen gekauft, und es braucht etwas mehr, um mich zu verstimmen. Ich betrachte es vielmehr aus professioneller Sicht, als typischen Case, und mit dem Hintergrund, dass sich immerzu Händler bei mir und bei Kollegen beschweren, wie hart diese Zeiten für sie seien. Dazu kann ich nur konstatieren.Es liegt auch bei diesem Beispiel einmal mehr, wie ich schon öfter beschrieben habe, nicht an der Motivation des Personals am POS. Vielmehr fahren die Entscheider im stationären Einzelhandel eines fatale Politik. Sie sind es selbst schuld, dass sie nicht mit Webshops mithalten können. Es ist nicht das böse Internet, und es sind nicht die böswilligen Kunden.Unternehmenskommunikation im digitalen Wandel.  

The This report aims to provide an overview of the digital marketing efforts centered around the University Fair as well as the immediate time frame after the fair (24 hours). During the fair, we explored each university booth, submitted contact information and took notes on the various contests available.This summary table presents all of the various activities observed (which is certainly not to be taken as an exhaustive list — apologies if we missed your institution’s efforts!).These results show that once again in 2015, very few institutions are taking full advantage of the use of Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software and marketing automation. However, both UOIT and OCAD University joined the ranks of the instant emails! Additionally, Carleton, York, Trent, Guelph-Humber, Laurentian, and Guelph all sent emails within the first week. While the content of the email is key, being first out of the gate can have a major impact.Of course, there are a number of interactions that a simple table can’t measure. Here are some institutions that impressed us.These two institutions lead the pack again this year by engaging through email with prospective students. There are really three components that set them apart:It is clear that these two institutions carefully planned how they would create their first engagement with students after the fair.Their newest way to capture leads is this year’s “Grape Stomp” contest. Brock’s Joseph Gottli and Sébastien Marchal designed this game to garner attention and, more importantly, contact information. Connected with their institution’s tradition, students compete with friends to win prizes.Universities collected a wide range of information at their booths, but the design and information collected by OCAD University stood out. Students were directed to an iPad with a simple and easy to read form asking for basic information. Many institutions asked for detailed information or used cumbersome forms to collect it, creating a frustrating user experience at an already overwhelming event.As they unveiled their new booth and Instead of offering the typical Apple product giveaway or tuition for a year that many institutions used as incentive, Nipissing donated a dollar to With their second year for their new booth, UOIT really hit their stride. Their booth features monitors to explore campus and the layout of the user experience is simple and engaging. Combine this with their well designed and executed emails and they are sure to see positive results in their recruitment. Chris Woods and his team really performed well here.With universities investing hundreds of thousands of dollars to attend this fair, it’s dismaying that so few of them engage students dynamically. With 5 institutions choosing not to collect information from prospective students, it really has to be categorized as a missed opportunity. While we appreciate the comment that “programs will fill anyway,” it really is a question of competing for the best possible students and engaging them. In today’s student experience, connecting with a student after an event can significantly increase their likelihood of application.However, the most disappointing part of the experience was in seeing that 3 of the 8 emails we received within 24 hours of the fair were not compliant with Canada’s Anti-Spam Legislation, opening them up to potential fines. More specifically, the lack of an “unsubscribe” mechanism, as well as providing an address, was neglected. Some will argue that this is not necessary as universities aren’t pursuing “commercial” activities, however, it could be considered a best practice. Overlooking these small details are reflective of the fact that Ontario Universities (in general) don’t seem to be investing enough into digital communications.Finally, while there is a continued investment in the “arms-race” that is the booth and presentation room at the Ontario Universities’ Fair (with new or retrofitted booths from Ryerson, York, Trent and U of T), there doesn’t appear to be the same investment towards innovation on the digital marketing experience after the fair. Simply putting a webform on an iPad won’t cut it any longer.10 — 9 — 8 — Coloured t-shirts and khaki pants7 — 6 — Less helicopter parents5 — 4 — Trent’s massive TV screen3 — 2 — Lakehead’s ricksha and sandwhich boards1 — VP Strategy We Seek Out the Important Stories in Higher Education (To submit, tweet your proposal to 

As I can remember that the most website I liked and I was attached too is, Google Reader (Yes Google, still For me and a lot of people out there RSS/Google Reader was the most comfortable websites/blogs/news following way, You can say that RSS ‘almost’ still alive, And there are alternatives to Google Reader everywhere, But let’s face it! Social Media websites are winning huge numbers of web visitors everyday and becoming like the only web reading standard in web visitors mindset.Although, All off this huge success for social media, It’s still not comfortable way to following people/websites updates. And while it doesn’t make sense to go way back to using only RSS feeds, I was thinking about small changes Facebook and Twitter can learn from Google Reader to make their timeline more readable and even better for their business is more ‘followable’!Now, What we can see here in which was Google Reader UI are:I can only see post name with small description and in addition can be an image.. That’s all! But in Facebook for example I’m forced to see a big destructive timeline with comments for every update which try to steal your attention here and there without a real focus on update content itself!That ‘if you want’ to keep following all updates for all your subscriptions, you can’t say like.. OK! I don’t have a lot of time now, And I’ll just read 50 updates then I ‘ll back later to continue reading! Because simply you don’t have effective way to count unread updates like you can see in every RSS feed in Google Reader.. Although you can enable notification on Facebook to read every single update from user or page but it make things more noisy and more difficult to keep following over time.I really can’t see why Facebook and Twitter don’t have a way to hide already seen updates, From user experience wise I don’t need to see the same update while scroll throw time line over and over again! only one time is enough, And if I really need to see it again I can check it as unread.If for business concerns social media website want to keep current timelines, at least users should have ability to switch between reading ways, without forcing 1 timeline way, Which I see it’s not comfortable and may let people to think about better alternatives.Now, if you have more ideas to improve social media experience share it with me! or even better, With Facebook and Twitter decision makers!It’s all about web!

The power of Wikipedia is that the content is controlled by the users. It’s the Wiki staff’s responsibility to make sure that the experience of that vehicle supports the user’s content. How the company conducts their business, manages servers, programs the site, and yes how they do the visual and interaction design are not things that the community should drive. This is the classic catastrophic example of User Driven vs. User Centered Design.It is critical for the design team at Wikipedia to conduct a proper user centered design process in order to learn the: abilities, desires, needs, cognitive processes, goals and (yes) opinions around how people use the site. That information cannot be overlooked. It is the foundation of the research for the redesign project. That information is also to be triangulated with other research, expertise, and experience. Those user opinions are not what drive final decisions but they are an important part of the team’s decision process.I have the upmost respect for this team, but this situation is the result of a flawed process. I think their initial efforts were spot on and I commend them for identifying the needs and attempting to design for them. I also understand that they were bullied into backing down. The people on that team are design experts, they are people who have studied the history of typography, the evolution and patterns of interaction design, and have probably put more care and empathy towards the users of that site than the users themselves are aware of. The people who vetoed the initial design initiative were mostly amateurs in terms of the skill set that the design team brings to the table. The people on the team have most likely studied the grid systems of Joseph Muller Brockmann, the typographic theories of Robert Bringhurst and Jan Tschichold and countless others who paved design history. They own stacks of books and read blogs on typography, user experience, interaction design and when they go to lunch they debate over the nuances of these topics. All of this coupled with the years of sleepless nights in design school and then years of experience doing this for a living are all part of an effort to become the experts that they are.Design is a process, and yes, part intuition, but a process. I would shun the designers for making solely emotional based design decisions and it’s apparent that they did not do this with the new designs. Unfortunately though, knee-jerk reaction is only thing that the common person brings to this situation. When designing you should never stop asking what your users think, never stop caring about what they tell you, and most importantly never stop triangulating those understandings with everything you know. The Wiki team knows that the final result that launched today is not the right design and they know this not because they emotionally want it different or had a hunch that things should be trendier. They know this because this is what they do and planned for and they know more about that decision than most. Not managing this situation is the only omission by the team. The team could have made strong presentation of the new designs and explained their choices. This type of education could help users make better-informed decisions. Forcing the new design with no explanation of the changes could have been another way to do it. Allowing users to toggle between the new design and the old is another way that is often done, but allowing the inmates to run the asylum—as they say—was an injustice to the members of the Wikipedia community. I hope the team has not given up.The result now is brute force. It’s a pissing contest and the good people at Wikipedia are respectful enough of the outspoken members to allow it to happen. Many users on Wikipedia don’t contribute money to the amazing efforts of the company. I hope the people who have destroyed the Wiki team’s effort to improve the experience at least have the decency to pay their dues and donate after they exercised the generously granted authority.This is a response to the article written by FastCo Follow me on Twitter : Experience Designer + Photographer @  

Over last few weeks, Great designers seek to be as informed as possible from the outset of an assignment. They are not afraid to ask questions and to listen. They ask that question, no matter how basic or rudimentary those questions might seem. Good practice is to clarify the objectives of the work and to go back to them frequently to see if you are still on track. They enquire about preexisting research and evaluate competitor offerings as a rule. Another good habit is keeping abreast of new interactions and technology that can inform their design work. Seeing a UXer using sites such as Great designers seek to establish a clear Admittedly, some creative geniuses are not the neatest people in the world. However, great UX designers realize that there are others involved in the creation of product experiences such as the client and the development team. The best designers create easy to follow, neat documentation. Templates and artwork should be easy for other designers to pick up.Great designers seek to involve real users in the design process. They campaign for it at the beginning of projects and find ways to cleverly sneak it in to tight deadlines or budget challenged projects. Great designers are pragmatic when it comes to Do you need a new work challenge, pop on over to Article originally appeared UXswitch is about putting the Experience in to finding a UX job. Your wish list is matched with only the best UX recruiters  employers. For UXers, by UXers

How Google Now can serve as a platform for hailing day-to-day services with ease.Well, as Matt Gilligan mentioned in the above post, I too feel that an app as a sole way to interact with a service is rather heavy handed. I use the 16GB variant of Google’s much-loved Nexus 7 and I’ve been recently very annoyed by the internal storage consumed by about a 100 apps on my device, most of which I don’t use on a regular basis (but I occasionally do use them). Yes, app overload indeed is one hell of an issue. The obvious question here is why would I have to install an app to send some information to a service. Ordering most of the day-to-day online services like Lyft, Uber, OpenTable etc. basically involves just three steps :One will notice that other than payment, its just sending and receiving some information in the form of text. Which make The Obvious Question sound more pronounced, doesn’t it? So having pondered all of that and reading the above article I couldn’t agree more with Matt.I’ve been pretty fascinated by the idea of a conversational user interface. We’ll be interacting with the future devices through conversation to get things done. And the iMessage Kit illustrated does exactly that. This makes getting things done a heck more easier plus eliminates the need for bulky apps. Two way conversations can be used to get things done in a jiffy, without the user having to navigate through all the complicated ham menus and pages. This can be really intuitive.Being an android user I naturally went into thinking how this idea could work with the world’s most popular mobile operating system.Android’s Google Now is a fully featured voice assistant. The voice commands can carry out a lot of important tasks and the app interface shows relevant information like personally curated news, weather, reminders, stocks etc. on beautiful Material designed cards. Android’s Conversational user interface opportunity, I believe, lies right here. Google Now can evolve into a ground platform through which any of these services can be accessed just like the iMessage kit imagined above does, without installing a bulky app burdening your device’s internal storage.So, this is how I imagined services like Lyft working under Google Now’s roof. The Google Now development kit should enable the developers to build their services right into it (I can’t say how exactly that can be done, but judging from my experience, that must be entirely possible).Requesting a service would be as simple as saying “Ok, Google” and speaking out. One can also do this by touching the FAB (Material Design’s own Floating Add Button) and hitting what you want. Selecting the preferences, confirming the order, all will be done on Now cards just like you use it to set reminders, alarms etc., as of now. Essentially, this model brings together all the things you do with your smartphone. Pretty straightforward, right?For instance, this is how requesting a Lyft ride would look like. Saying “Ok, Google. Request a Lyft Line to my location” will give you a card displayng the information you provided. You’ll be asked to confirm. Say yes and you’re done.Once the ride is ordered, a new Lyft card displaying information about your driver and his location will float up. The card will follow the Google Now design language, but will have a header containing the company’s logo and their native color, so as not to compromise the sense of brand identity, which they crave so very well.Once the driver has arrived, a message can be relayed to him by touch the ‘Send a message’ button on the card.As for the payment part, the soon-to-arrive It is easy to imagine how most of the services could work following this model, using voice dialogues to trigger services, utilizing the cards to show information, and buttons to carry out in-service tasks.Google showcased the next version of Android at Google I/O 2015. The most notable among the new features is termed as “now-on-tap’. Now-on-tap takes searches to the next level. Holding down the home button on any screen tells Google to look for context on the page, and to display relevant information and related tasks on cards. If services like Lyft are connected with Google Now, this will be an interesting way to conjure them up. Go ahead and imagine the possibilities.It is evident that talking to the device is the most intuitive way of communicating with your device for getting things done. And android has in its arsenal, the ultimate tool for weaving this concept into the operating system, and its users’ lives.Loved that? Hit recommend.I’m teenager caught up in a conflict to chose between the eclectic and the focused.

The signs are there. Obviously, we’re collectively having some crack-up with regards to advertising. We are all slowly getting to the point where we start gagging whenever exposed to Why? Because advertising has relentlessly ruined almost every user experience one can think of.It’s been done overseas before. But now, it has happend right next door, in France. Eric Piolle, mayor of Maybe, that might be too little too late on the part of Facebook though. Because Google is flirting with some kind of Netflix-model for content websites. They call it Well, you’re probably quite familiar with my train of thought by now: advertising has ruined the user experience. Both offline and online. Because, after some dumb-ass professor told them in economy class that ‘money now is better than money later’, If you happen to be just about anybody, it simply means the end of spam you’ve never actually asked for. However, if you happen to be a marketing manager or if you’re working in advertising, it might mean the end of your job.It’s not like we, advertisers and agencies alike, didn’t see this one coming: we’ve been spending years digging our own grave. My guess is, today the grave is at rock bottom.But before going down, we all still desperately want to live, don’t we? So, in a world where unbranded content reigns, unasked-for advertising gets spat out while By which I mean You have to give people Never underestimate the power of dough. That is what It’s basically some kind of affiliate program turned into a pretty nifty app that allows pizza-lovers to put their own recipe on Domino’s Pizza’s menu and earn some cash every time their pizza is ordered.Most people happen to have opinions. And if you’re a brand that’s mature enough to realise you can’t be everyone’s friend, you choose sides, make it crystal clear what you stand for and act accordingly.Doing so may earn you in no time the attention of well over 50 million people who have If you own a dog, you know you’re filling up with feelings of guilt each and every time you leave your dog behind at home. Alone.That’s one heck of an insight. If your brand happens to be Pedigree, it’s one heck of a chance to prove you’re a brand that genuinely cares.It’s been 7 years in the making. And it shows. This app uses the same facial mapping algorithm that was used in Hollywood blockbuster ‘I’m definitely a fan of BMW. That means, if I were into cars, BMW would be my favorite brand. But I happen to be a staunch biker.That doesn’t change the fact that my all-time favorite campaign is one for the Beemer. It is called The Hire.Downloaded over 100 million times during the first four years. I don’t have more recent numbers. Probably because in February 2005, something called Youtube happened.BMW got away with selling its commercial content. Sold over 1 million times. Imagine.Cheapskates started downloading it illegally. Yes, we’re still talking commercial content here.If you still care for a more recent example, this one for It’s only five words. But as far as I’m concerned, they’re key to offering value beyond the product. Maybe, for a change, they can even turn advertising into a decent user experience.Jan is an AdNerd. AdNerds are primarily interested in the intersection of advertising and technology.

The process of designing any sort of human experience, regardless of purpose or platform, is centered around reaching a desired outcome, ideally with as little fuss and as much joy as possible.The purpose of an experience and the platform on which the experience takes place will vary: purchasing a plane ticket on a tablet to vacation, enjoying a musical performance in a theater, or learning to code in a classroom. Although each of these experiences require their own unique methods and frameworks, the elements that should be taken into consideration during the design process remain mostly the same.The best representation of those elements comes from Jesse James Garrett’s Designing adult learning experiences that take place either online or in a classroom has always traditionally been about defining a curriculum. That process of curriculum creation is most commonly called instructional design. But, in the same way that user experience design requires much more than deciding what content should go on a website, true learning experience design requires much more than curriculum.With that in mind, I took Garrett’s Elements as inspiration to create my own Elements of Learning Experience Design to formalize and communicate a design process I have struggled to explain to others.The goal of almost any learning experience is rooted in acquiring the new skills, knowledge, motivation, and/or confidence to change an existing behavior or create a new one. Those changes in behavior should have measurable impacts, allowing you to define key success metrics.Before you start building anything, you should first get a better understanding of the needs you’re trying to solve for.This means identifying the learner’s needs, which include the additional skills and knowledge required to do something differently, and their goals, which is what they hope to accomplish by doing things differently. Identifying your organization’s needs and goals are equally important. A successful learning experience must be able to address the objectives of both, regardless of how different they may be.Ultimately, adult learners and their organizations expect learning experiences to establish behaviors that make their lives or work more efficient and effective.As a learning experience designer, you should focus your time and attention during the strategy plane on identifying the gaps that exist between the learner and his/her desired outcome. Those gaps exist due to a lack of the following:Once you are able to properly identify the gaps that cause learners to struggle, you must design a solution that effectively addresses those gaps.Once your objectives have reached a certain level of clarity, you can begin defining the content and functional requirements needed of the learning experience in order to reach those objectives.Let’s break this down by using an example.Start with your objectives. Let’s say your political campaign wants to decrease the amount of inaccurate voter data without decreasing the amount of data coming in.What key metrics represent success to your organization and your learners? Based on the example’s objectives, the key metrics could be maintaining the amount of data being processed, and decreasing the number of “inaccurate information” reports.Work backwards from there to figure out the core behaviors that support those metrics from being reached. In this example, volunteers must be able to ask accurate questions, know how to fill out data reports, and do it all pretty quickly.Then, outline the necessary knowledge, skills, and resources needed to exhibit those behaviors. Asking effective questions is a skill built upon the knowledge of what makes certain questions effective, and what the campaign is interested in learning.Knowing how to accurately fill out a form is a knowledge-based task requiring a limited amount of practice. Doing something quickly and accurately has a lot to do with practice, confidence, and motivation. Logistically, volunteers need to have access to data entry forms or terminals, and voters to speak to.Next, map those components to topics and activities. By the end of the training session learners will be able to describe why accurate data is critical to the campaign, prioritize what data is most important to the campaign, identify the right questions to ask to gather that data, and practice inputting that data into different forms or terminals.And that’s how you arrive at your content requirements.It’s also important to think beyond what content is required of an experience. The content outlined in our example above may close our learners’ knowledge, skill, and confidence gap, but it will likely fail to achieve the actual objectives without functional requirements.For offline learning experiences, these functional requirements include facilities, personnel, logistics (materials, A/V, and the like), and pre-/post-course support (including on-boarding and continued engagement and follow-up).Online learning experiences have similar functional requirements, including platform (such as a custom site versus One of the worst mistakes you can make as a learning experience designer is to assume that functional requirements take care of themselves. When functional requirements are not built into the experience, you end up with disgruntled learners that will be much less likely to apply anything they’ve learned during the experience you’ve designed.Imagine you’re learning how to drive.First, your instructor teaches you about starting your car. Next, she goes over how to park your car. After that, she teaches you about the gas pedal, the brake pedal, and going in reverse. And finally, she shows you how to adjust your mirrors.Does this sequence of events sound strange to you? That’s because the structure of the learning experience described above is not being taken into consideration.Once you’ve outlined your requirements and objectives, you must think about how those requirements will be structured.Both in user experience and learning experience design, this relates directly to the organizing of information in order to make it usable, otherwise known as information architecture.For an adult learning experience to be successful, it must be designed and structured in the way that makes most logical and relevant sense to the learner. To do that, you must first understand how different topics relate to one another in the learner’s mind (example: A key unlocks a door), in what order they usually occur (example: A door must be unlocked before being opened), and what knowledge or skill builds upon another (example: Turning a key builds the skill to turn a doorknob).If you were to create a sales training program, would you begin with a customer entering the store, or would you begin with the product arriving into inventory? Would the section on point-of-sale systems be near the beginning, middle, or end of the program?Structure becomes even trickier when your program involves non-linear scenarios, like setting up a multi-channel marketing campaign. Should the learner know about Google Analytics before or after Facebook Paid Advertising? There are valid arguments to either option, but the real question is what makes most sense to the learner?To answer that question, you’ll often have to look back at your objectives and learner needs. How much do you know about your learners, their daily responsibilities, and their environment? If you’re still finding it difficult to determine the structure of your learning experience, you should probably do more research.Structure also applies to the functional requirements of your learning experience. When will learners need the most support? Which topics or skills present the largest challenge to your learners? You should also consider whether or not the learning environment is conducive to the type of experience you’re designing (online vs. offline, short-term vs. long-term, facilitated vs. self-led, and the like).The interaction plane deals directly with designing the materials, activities, lectures, and discussions that make up the learning experience. This is where instructional design lives. As an instructional designer, you will focus most of your efforts on defining exactly how learners are introduced to new skills and knowledge, and what practice and application look like those those skills.When introducing new knowledge to learners, it helps tremendously to root it in existing knowledge. This can be done through the use of use analogies, previous experiences, and common cultural references. To use these methods effectively, you must have a strong grasp of your learners’ perspectives and experiences as they relate to the content.Acquiring new skills demands a different approach. Learners must be able to actually apply new skills to both real and hypothetical problems within the learning experience in order to become proficient. Think of how many times you had to practice parking a car in both empty and full parking lots before you felt comfortable parking on a daily basis. You must create opportunities that allow learners to practice and apply their new skills in supportive environments.This is also the time to think about how your learners’ progress will be tracked. Assessment criteria should first be defined within the requirements plane, and then built into the program in the structure plane. Exactly which tools and processes are used to evaluate a learner’s skill-level, and how progress is communicated back to learners should be defined here.The experience you design must be able to cater to your learners’ sense as well as align with your organization’s brand. The sensory plane applies to all materials and instructions designed for the program, including presentation decks, guides, web sites, lesson plans, worksheets, activity materials, and so on.The sensory plane allows your materials to implicitly communicate information to your learners about the experience they are about to have. The tone of your written content, as well as the visual design of your materials, should represent your organization’s branding and communicate the mood of the experience, be it professional, fun, or quirky. In the same way that content should be strategically structured, the visual design of your materials should be cohesive and consistent.The sensory plane is your opportunity to create a learning experience that is both functional and beautiful. Decks are designed as visual references to anchor learners, but if they’re filled with too much text and poorly chosen images, decks end up being frustrating and useless. A lack of verbal instructions will frustrate learners, but it’s still better than unclear or misleading instructions.People, regardless of their preferences, are drawn to polished, well-designed materials and clear communication. The sensory layer creates a single, cohesive experience that allows learners to focus on gaining new skills and not deciphering their their learning environment.Designing learning experiences must be treated in the same way as designing any sort of user experience. Learners, just like users, have needs that can only be solved through proper research, design, validation, and iteration.Anyone involved in adult learning should step outside the limiting boundaries of curriculum design in order to account for the learner’s entire experience. By only focusing on content, we are missing out and what actually makes up a person’s reality, including the environment in which they’re learning in, and their lives before and after the learning experience.By taking each of these elements into consideration, any teacher or instructional designer can start begin to think beyond those limitations, and look to create immersive and enriching experiences for their learners. This not only allows us to be more effective at teaching others, but it also establishes a higher level of quality that people should expect of a learning experiences.I’d love to hear about what you think about the Elements of Learning Experience Design. You can email me at Product Lead 

At Intercom provides us with usage insights and a direct communication link with the people who use Notabli. It’s powerful, and we need to remind ourselves that with this privilege must come responsibility.Unlike other services that monetize user data via advertising, Notabli is different. We only collect user information that actively helps us improve the user experience. That’s it. And we take this very seriously.In general, our communication optimizations have been great. However, we recently had a user experience that didn’t quite align with our core values.We learned some things with our newfound power to connect directly with users. Since we now had information about user sessions, we thought it would be a good idea to After reaching out to a few dozen users as an initial test, responses started rolling in: “Thank you!” or “Oh, I didn’t know…” But then one response caught our attention:Here’s how intercom works: When we send an in-app message, the author’s face pops up in the app and website. A user can tap the message to respond or get more information.With the best of intentions to help people discover new aspects of our product, we hadn’t fully-considered the potential for misunderstanding or user confusion.As we started talking about this in the office, we realized that intrusion in a private environment (even when well-intended) was a problem.We love connecting with the people who use Notabli. We also love getting their feedback. Even when they’re saying “Leave me alone!”Passionate about design and all things well-made. Co-founder of Sharing our progress, stories and ideas as we go.

Short form video is great on YouTube.YouTube is video for everybody.They have a great platform used by 1 billion people every month, generating 8 billion hours of video views a month, 100 hours of video are uploaded every minute. And this is growing fast, still.YouTube has been built for short form video.As an author, what you need to do is create a video and upload it.This is great.If you are a sport entity (sport federation, club, athlete, broadcaster, brand) it’s a great way to provide your content to a growing audience on their platform of choice.An example on YouTube:Long form video for sport (as that is my vertical domain of expertise and interest) is another story.You can obviously play a long form video on YouTube as any other video. As an example I took a video from FIE YouTube channel, the Junior Fencing World Championships 2010 Baku, AzerbaijanWatch this very nice fencing video (you need to click on the link and watch it directly on YouTube as FE does not allow this to be embedded in other websites) It’s a 50 minutes video, containing the various matches between opponents of each team.But wait a second, second screen for digital? Are you crazy? Do you want me to use two devices to watch this? No ways!There are two main features missing to make this digital experience better than TV:In a 1 to 4 hours video, linear viewing is not ideal, the user who would like to access relevant content at any moment in the video should be able to do so by having clear navigation tools.As the match develops it would be great to have related score and statistics updated at any moment during the video, athletes information and biographies, details about the techniques being used etc.A GigaOm’s article earlier this month stated that:Furthermore, sport content never dies, football match content typically generates a burst of traffic in the first hours after being published, but also the same amount of views in the two years after that.This is also in conjunction to YouTube becoming more than a replacement for TV.At All data is fully synchronised with the video, each point in time of the video will have statistics and results as they were at that very moment.Various sport broadcasters and federations are using Diva around the world to provide a richer experience to fans of different sports.Is Diva the way to go for YouTube long form content?At deltatre we believe so.Dec. 3 2013 — FIFA World Cup Press Conference ahead of the FWC Draw.I am not sure that adding a unmoderated live chat window on the right of the video is really adding any value to the live stream, especially when comments from users are of that level…

At Tweek, we recently started working again on new product versions and it is undeniable in software development that the design of a product influences the emotional response of a user. Good user interface design can lead to a hugely successful website or app or in the opposite way fail to make any impact. The balance of outstanding looks and interactivity with ease of use and simple navigation makes the difference between good and great design.Therefore we asked our followers in the latest When kicking off design for our next product versions, we thought about the best way to derive feedback. The most important factors for us were:Then we checked possible survey tools to collect the answers, but we soon realized, that none of them matched our criteria of showing our app and the features in the correct context. Therefore we built our own web application where we could simluate the iPad surface. That way we could ensure that all participants got a close experience to a real device even though they were using their computer. With this approach it was further possible for us to get a wider reach instead of inviting folks to the office. We tracked the subdomain where we deployed the study and as you can see received answers from all over the world.Furthermore it is interesting to look at the average session duration. If you watch the video of our test running, you can see that you can answer all of these questions in 1–2 minutes maximum. With a retention time of more than 3 minutes, we can be sure that the study participants really thought about the questions and reflected their answers.We let the survey run over the course of one weekend and received in total 118 answers and 569 preference details regarding the meta-data.Here at Tweek we think products in 2 target groups, therefore we split the results into the group of millennials and non-millennials. After asking the user for their dark or light background color preference, we wanted to test a new video-feature in the second question.Netflix is doing something similiar in their header section when a new show or season is premiering. Due to the fact that it is an emerging feature, we wanted to see the reaction of the users: According to the 569 given preferences of the 118 users, We can sum up, that it paid off in the end to conduct the survey in our own way without the help of third-party services. In this case we could ensure that the participants had a highly authentic user experience and could therefore answer more reflectedly. Furthermore we got valuable insights into user’s opinions and preferences from all over the world, that will flow into consideration on the new Tweek 3 app. If you are interested in how we will incorporate the results of the survey into a new product version you can follow us on Personalized Video Discovery Solution: 

In 2014, something very profound happened that forever changed the way information is created, accessed and distributed: Usage of mobile devices overtook PCs and the world shifted to a “mobile first” ecosystemAs a mobile developer myself, it may seem rather self-serving for me to suggest that the “developer experience” is important. In fact, at Google, I spent a significant amount of my time working with developers to help them navigate the complexity of developing for Android so they could build better, more engaging mobile apps. Eventually, my obsession with improving the developer experience (DevX) led me to leave Google and launch TRNQL (derived from “tranquil”), a startup focused on making the Now that “mobile” has become the most prevalent way in which users are accessing media and content globally, the developers who create these experiences are critical to the entire ecosystem. I strongly believe that providing smarter tools and technologies will empower developers to “push the envelope” by creating new and better contextual or “right-time experiences.” Recognizing that developers are important players in this new “mobile first” economy is crucial, as they are increasingly becoming the creators and caretakers of the user experience.An empowered developer who has access to great tools will be more inspired and more capable of creating great end-user experiences. Why have so many software development platforms failed to recognize this? Perhaps because they have failed to embrace the importance of the developer experience and its correlation with great end-user experiences.Well, we like to remind folks that Think of it this way: if you were tasked with hanging a picture frame on a wall, but first you had to build the hammer, then maybe you wouldn’t have much motivation left to complete the actual task of nailing the picture frame to the wall. The simple and important task of mounting a picture frame was made overly difficult and hence discouraged all but the most motivated to continue to the next (and most important!) step. This story plays out in the daily lives of hundreds of thousands of developers, and has a direct impact on the millions of apps that they are collectively working on. The resulting degradation of software quality permeates into the user experience, negatively affecting billions of end users.Developers would have the opportunity to create more compelling and engaging products for end users, because they wouldn’t be stopped in their tracks by trivial minutia. This friction adds up, and ensures that most developers are working hard just to stay afloat and meet deadlines, foregoing the implementation of amazing capabilities that their users would love. They make these compromises not because they lack the motivation or the vision, but because they lack the proper tools.There are very few examples of developer products that deliver an amazing developer experience, and that’s a shame. But there are some folks working on it (myself included). On the other hand, the products that do focus on DevX are very successful: JetBrains, Parse, and Twilio, to name a few. These products stand out of the crowd, have very loyal followings, and are deeply integrated into many important products on the market today. Uber relies on Twilio, and many of the products you love to use in your daily life are created using JetBrains tools. It is not enough anymore just to have a compelling feature set: you have to create developer tools that respect developers as end users. It’s all part of the ‘consumerization of IT’ that has been going on for years.A good developer experience means that common use cases are made simple and easy, freeing up the time and resources needed to tackle the more difficult yet extremely valuable features users love. This results in better apps, simply because it makes it easier for developers to create better apps. This democratization of technology will ensure that we deliver smarter and more intelligent apps to the market, resulting in satisfied end users who are more intimately engaged with the digital experience.Join me on this journey.Naz, CEO of {trnql}I am a veteran technologist, former Googler, and most recently founder and CEO of trnql. As an engineer, designer, and communicator I’m focused on UX and DevX.

Tumblr’s great. It’s clean, simple, and the userbase is all about great content. There are some fundamentals missing that I haven’t seen addressed, though. Now might be a good time.1. 2. 3. *Moonshot Suggestion:Sincerely,-ZacCommunity and other stuff The Editorial Page

When we talk about user experience (UX), what is it that we are actually talking about? Moving a mouse around a computer screen, clicking on buttons, and using application toolbars and navigational tiers all come to mind. As interaction designers we are tasked with creating graphical user interfaces (GUI) that make dealing with daily computer actions the least frustrating possible. You could think of it as a façade that hides all those programmatic command-line nasties behind sensible visual prompts. However, this façade is designed on the computer’s terms of communication.Computers understand zeroes and ones, but we don’t do that so well. So as an interim we have adhered human constructs taken from real world metaphors in order to personify and understand how a computer works. Constructs such as files  folders, pages, scrolling and desktops all help us to engage in a conversation with a computer. Could you say that these are intuitive? Not really, as in order for us to use computers logically, at some stage in our lives we needed to learn how to match these physical metaphors with their digital counterparts. There are patterns that we have learnt and adopted, some of which can be carried across to other uses (such as underlined text signifying a page link), but every time we visit a new website or launch a new application, there is a learning curve — no matter how well they adhere to these patterns.For the first time we are starting to see the emergence of mass human-centric interfaces that cast away these traditional notions of computing GUI’s. Software is now capable of understanding our intent across the three basic communication layers, Oral (learning by being told an action), Visual (learning from witnessing the action), and Kinetic (learning from repetition of the action). The easiest illustration of this would be Apple’s Siri, along with its competitors’ counterparts. Here is a piece of software that, through the humanistic interaction of ask and tell, can understand a human’s verbal instructions and act accordingly. Where is the navigation or hierarchy of information? Gone. Instead this is a piece of software that requires no more understanding than basic speech and listening comprehension, a facet of human life ingrained from birth.Microsoft Kinect proves a different example of human interaction with computers. Physical movement and gestures can be recognised as intention; I move my hand upwards therefore I must want something at the top of the screen. Although conceived as a way to interact with video games, people have been pushing its limits in more practical areas. One such example utilised the Kinect’s spacial awareness to automate a living room. Sit down at the couch and the TV would turn on. Leave the room and the lights would turn off. No buttons pressed, no direct commands given. Interacting with the computer has been completely removed from the person’s consciousness.These new technologies are arriving to the masses almost on a monthly basis. They all have a certain degree of intelligence, so we can think of them as ‘smart’ technologies. The newest of these (and yet to be released) is Google Glass, a pair of glasses that provide a heads up display for all other Google services; internet search, maps, messaging, and more. The unique thing about Google Glass is that it is always on and waiting for voice triggered commands. It has been designed to fundamentally integrate with your life by always being there.We have spent the better part of 30 years learning how to interact with a computer in a traditional sense (desktop, keyboard and mouse), but now, rather radically, we have these new breeds of intelligent technologies. Could we be at the cusp of losing our ability as a populous to keep up, learn and adapt to the plethora of these new ‘smart’ devices? If any object or interaction has the potential to be ‘smart’ (and it looks like we are heading there) then do we as humans have to relearn how to interact with the environment around us? I can tell you for sure we will need a lot of help from designers to find harmony in these interactions.As the computer transcends from being a mere tool to becoming more personal in approach, the term ‘I like noticing things that arent often noticed.

What makes a great design besides having an amazing team or a genius creative mind? Process is the number one thing to not only creating a crafty design, but also creating the entire experience from the client to their end-user. I have had the chance to work with some of the brightest teams and individuals, and I have learned a lot about process and how to implement a great experience atop of a pretty web or mobile application. I am going to share to you what we as a team here at So now that we’ve talked about the tools, the communication, daily rituals and retrospectives, let’s talk about the process in which we come up with ideas.During our initial week with clients, we typically go through a discovery phase. During this phase we have extensive meetings with the client, their team and ours. We discuss the current problem of their application, we talk about assumptions, we paper sketch, whiteboard, and ultimately user test our ideas before putting them on Sketch or Photoshop.That’s right, Mossio works on client work 4 days out of the work week. Typically this is done Monday through Thursday. Why? The answer to that is simple. Team building! On Fridays we generally do design exercises where the whole team is involved in one way or another. Design exercises could be anything that we’re super passionate about at the time. Whether it’s working on an internal web or mobile application, or a design exploration of a product or service we use and love but their application or website could use some TLC. We’ve actually landed a few projects by doing design explorations for companies. So in return we’ve helped bring our business closer by bringing the team that runs it closer to each other, and we’ve built client relationships off of our design explorations. It’s a win win situation.We also like to have our team rested, so that extra day can sometimes help with getting the creative mind rejuvenated to start back up again the following week cranking out extremely well put together user interfaces and exceptional user experiences.The biggest part to take away from this article is simply that in order to build really great products from really great ideas is to have an amazing process behind your creativity. It’s important to have client communication and show that you have a grasp on the product you’re working with. It’s essential to have the right tools for the job so that it not only makes your life easier, but your clients as well.The cornerstone of any successful project that is delivered and in the wild will encompass the communication, the tools and of course the process in which you get your projects done. Keep in mind that a design process and even the tools you use will be ever evolving into bigger and better things.Were a creative boutique making remarkable brands, beautiful interfaces and happy clients.

Twitter announced its latest earnings this week, and the one thing that stood out during the call was the lack of any significant user growth. In addition to sending Twitter’s stock prices downwards, the revelation served to highlight the social platform’s biggest problem: its inability to attract a broad user base of the sort that might prove useful to the television networks they’ve spent so much time and effort trying to attract.Adding insult to injury, Twitter released its first ever TV commercials on Tuesday night during Game One of the Mets-Royals World Series and the spots, which focused on Twitter’s new Moments feature, were routinely trashed. “Confusing” and “Incomprehensible” were two of the more printable epithets.While many observers blame Twitter’s problems on the fact that it is can seem impenetrable for newcomers, I think the problem is more basic than that. I think Twitter’s problem lies in the fact that only a certain percentage of the population is comfortable putting their thoughts out there publicly and there’s nothing the platform can do to get them over that psychological barrier.So rather than fight that problem, Twitter needs to roll with it. They need to make it easy for people to become “read-only” members, creating a version of the app that allows them to read tweets and possibly favorite them, without any pressure to retweet or respond.I don’t see that as a problem however, as given the large number of celebrities and media figures already on the platform, Twitter already functions that way for many users.What’s more, this setup will make Twitter a more attractive platform for TV networks, who are looking to use it as a way to drive tune-in. By giving users a way to see all the second screen content a show is putting out, while receiving notifications each time their favorite shows and/or actors update their accounts, Twitter can give TV networks the type of delivery system they’re looking for.This will be a win for both parties, for as I outlined in my recent report on Social TV, Twitter is currently headed for a significant decline as linear viewing tapers off (making a real time platform less relevant) and as networks increasingly see social as a paid platform (making their stagnant user base less attractive.)A read-only platform does not have to mean the end of Twitter as a social platform for those who want it. But if Twitter is serious about growing its user base, it will need to become proactive about creating a user experience that appeals to a broader base of users. This is critical, as one of the frequent complaints about Twitter that I hear from network executives is that the current user base consists of dozens of niche “villages” created by specific types of users, making it hard for programs who don’t hit those demographics to get any sort of traction on Twitter. A broader, more accessible platform will eliminate that issue.To learn more about the future of Social TV, check out my new report at Leading TV industry analyst. Speak about #FutureTV on television news shows, at conferences and to anyone wholl listen.

Récemment, j’ai eu besoin de louer une voiture quelques jours par mois. J’ai spontanément cherché du côté de l’économie collaborative, pour la proximité, mais aussi pour le coût. J’ai été étonnée de voir qu’il existe autant de plateformes sur ce segment spécifique : la location de véhicule entre particuliers.Et heureusement que ces plateformes sont nombreuses, car j’ai du en tester trois avant d’en trouver une où l’accès à l’information ne relève pas du parcours du combattant. A l’heure où l’expérience utilisateur est une invocation banale, j’ai été frappée de voir à quel point de jeunes entreprises sont encore sous l’emprise de l’ancien monde. Elles passent alors à côté de leur objectif, à savoir conquérir l’utilisateur qui est entré “pour voir”.L’expérience utilisateur (ou UX pour User eXperience), c’est la manière dont un utilisateur perçoit le service dans sa globalité. La conception centrée sur l’utilisateur (le design UX) vise à prendre en compte ses attentes et ses besoins en intégrant, par exemple, les différentes facettes d’un usage ou en donnant tout simplement un accès facile au service.Même si l’expérience utilisateur relève du bon sens, en pratique, ce n’est pas si simple ! Dans le cas de la location de véhicule entre particuliers, quasiment aucune de ces plateformes ne semble avoir pris en compte l’utilisateur. Je trouve ça fou, par exemple, de ne pas pouvoir naviguer entre les offres sans devoir repasser par la page de résultats (pour peu que les offres soient nombreuses, prévoir l’après-midi).Dans un marché où de nombreuses offres similaires existent, la qualité de l’expérience utilisateur est une clé de différenciation. Si vous, utilisateur, vous ne sentez pas que vos attentes et contraintes sont prises en compte, alors vous “changez de crèmerie”, d’autant plus facilement si les offres sont nombreuses. Et c’est encore plus vrai pour des services numériques.La conception centrée utilisateur se traduit côté utilisateur par la perception qu’il a de la qualité et du niveau d’attention réelle qui est mobilisée à son égard. Cette attention apparaît dans le positionnement du service, dans sa conception, et dans les détails concrets de sa mise en œuvre. Elle détermine la valeur ajoutée du service et l’expérience émotionnelle vécue par l’utilisateur.L’utilisateur profite donc d’un service de meilleure qualité mais aussi d’un bénéfice d’ordre psychologique. L’attention mobilisée par l’offreur du service est une marque de reconnaissance. Le consommateur n‘est pas réduit pas à une mécanique pavlovienne, qui rentrerait dans les rails pré-pensés par l’offreur. La conception UX vise à répondre à des attentes souvent impalpables ou qui ne rentrent pas dans les projections de l’offreur.Cette réhabilitation du consommateur comme un être complexe et un sujet à part entière explique pourquoi cette qualité d’expérience est un différenciateur marketing si puissant.L’UX est la manifestation concrète d’une révolution massive dans nos standards de consommation : l’économie est en transformation, comme décrit par l’article d’analyse de Pierre Chapignac :Et, la maîtrise de la démarche UX par l’offreur est associée, intuitivement, au fait d’appartenir à l’économie refondée ou d’être un vestige de l’ancien monde.Le drame de beaucoup d’entreprises est qu’elles ne savent pas encore qu’elles appartiennent à un monde en fin de vie. La persistance des modes de fonctionnement classiques est telle que les entreprises restent engluées dans une vision obsolète des besoins du consommateur.A l’inverse, l’expérience utilisateur a un tel pouvoir d’attraction sur les consommateurs qu’elle peut, potentiellement, constituer Le contraste est de plus en plus fort entre une approche business centrée sur ses propres objectifs, et une approche business centrée sur le besoin utilisateur. L’approche d’Uber illustre cela de manière flagrante. Ce service met en relation des clients et des véhicules de tourisme avec chauffeur (VTC), conduits soit par des conducteurs professionnels (UberX et UberBerline), soit par des conducteurs amateurs, qui utilisent leur propre véhicule (UberPop).D’un côté, l’utilisateur dispose de l’offre du secteur réglementé des taxis. La qualité de l’expérience utilisateur, en termes d’agrément et de service rendu, est dépendante du chauffeur de taxi. Cet aléa se double souvent d’une impunité de fait, qui a rendu possible des pratiques abusives (qui ne s’est jamais étonné d’un compteur à l’arrivée déjà bien garni ?). Et en la matière, peu importe la part réelle d’abus par rapport aux comportements professionnels : le client sait qu’il ne peut ni connaitre par avance, ni maitriser la qualité du service qu’il paiera.De l’autre côté, des chauffeurs, pas nécessairement professionnels statutairement (dans le cas d’UberPop), mais qui offrent un haut niveau de service : transparence, petites attentions. Tout pour vous transporter en vous fournissant une expérience utilisateur positive. Pourquoi ? La maitrise pour le client de la qualité du service est le cœur de la proposition de valeur d’Uber.Dès lors, la qualité du service n’est pas liée aux conducteurs en tant que tel, mais au fait que le système Uber est organisé pour assurer cet objectif, avec le suivi de l’arrivée en temps réel du véhicule et la notation par le client. Le système de notation apporte une sécurité à l’utilisateur, sur la qualité du service acheté, et sur sa capacité à maitriser la prestation.De fait, l’attention aux utilisateurs est centrale pour les conducteurs Uber. Non seulement, le service de mobilité doit être rendu dans des conditions satisfaisantes et, la cerise sur le gâteau fait partie intégrante du service. Libre à chaque conducteur de choisir les moyens d’assurer une expérience utilisateur positive.D’une part, l’utilisateur maitrise le service mobilité lui-même. Il dispose d’une autonomie dans le process (je réserve depuis mon smartphone), de souplesse (je peux réserver pour une course immédiate), de sécurité (la course a un prix forfaitaire), et de fluidité (je ne sors plus ma carte bleue pour payer).D’autre part, il a un accès immédiat et fluide, tant à l’information qu’au service. L’application mobile associée à la puissance de frappe du collaboratif facilite le parcours de l’utilisateur. Il y a, à toute heure, un chauffeur à moins de quelques minutes de vous. Cette disponibilité du service, gratuit et accessible en 2 clics, apporte plus de liberté aux utilisateurs.Cet exemple pose une question qui concerne tous les secteurs d’activité : un système centré sur lui-même peut-il réellement rivaliser avec un système centré sur l’utilisateur ?Mais, appréhender véritablement l’expérience utilisateur n’est pas si simple qu’il y parait. Cela nécessite une dépose profonde de nos façons d’appréhender la relation au consommateur, et donc de revisiter les briques de base du modèle de création de valeur.Scrum Master  facilitateur de transitions vers des organisations apprenantes et innovantes“La meilleure façon de prédire le futur est de l’inventer” — Alan Kay (1971)

Recently, my roommates and I moved into a new apartment building, and as with all apartment buildings, there are a million and one loose ends to tie up in the process of settling in.One of those incredibly vital but tedious things to set up, is the buzzer. On a side note, it was a pleasant surprise to find that the buzzer gets programmed to call a phone upon which entering a number will open the front door (oh how technology has improved since I last lived in an apartment where suites had built in buzzers). The tricky thing with setting up the buzzer in our building is that we no longer have a front desk person 5 days a week, instead they come in sometimes, often arbitrarily and at random and you must simply hope you bump into them or you can call in.I happened to bump into the lovely occasional front desk lady a few weeks back and I pleasantly asked for our buzzer to be set up. She took down the name I wanted on the board, the phone number to link the buzzer to, and told me she would get it done that day. A week goes by…and nothing. So I call the customer service phone number and leave a nice little reminder message about the buzzer…and another week goes by. At this point I’m getting really frustrated so I call another 4 or 5 times within the following week or so, getting progressively more frustrated and angry as all I’m getting is their lovely answering machine. I leave them my request and information and explicitly ask them to call me back if the buzzer gets set up. Finally, on one of the calls I reached a REAL LIVE PERSON (yes I do find it slightly sad that this is a moment of celebration). We re-iterate my burning desire to obtain the buzzer and rehash the information that was required and I hang up the phone with smile on my face and the guarantee that it would be done Lo behold, what happens? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. At this point I’m practically boiling. I’ve spent considerable time calling and leaving messages and ranting to my roommates to get what seems to me a A few days goes by. And Alas. No. I decide to check the board for my newly added name and to test out the buzzer. And what do I see? So I head down to the office with the intention of apologizing for my heckling behaviour as a resident (I’d be a little peeved if I got chastised by my boss and also had 3242345 messages from this girl demanding her buzzer be set up) and hopefully get some more insight into what was happening with this buzzer situation.I introduce myself to the front desk lady and bring up that I’m wondering about the buzzer situation. She apologizes and explains to me that they have tried and tried and tried but the system simply will not accept any new entries and they have a list of people for the buzzer the length of her arm and that the maintenance guy is going to try and fix it right now but they’ll probably have to call the buzzer company and get them in to fix it. And immediately, all my anger and frustration dissipated.We are (most of us) not unreasonable people and understand that shit happens so we can’t always get our way as quickly or efficiently as we’d like. However, if you don’t make the effort to provide people with feedback, DON’T let the situation escalate to that point. There were many instances in the process where I was so frustrated that I was almost willing to go through the hassle of moving again to find an apartment with better customer service.Information must flow both ways: when there is an input, there must also be an output. Nobody likes conversing with a brick wall. There is nothing worse than NOT knowing what is happening. Imagine getting an error page and instead of an error page message, the site just gave you a black screen. Or redirected you to the home page of the site again. How frustrating and confusing would that be?Feedback is key for positive user experiences; whether that is the user experience of an apartment building or of a digital product like a website or application. Examples of feedback include providing progress bars to let people know how much longer they have to wait, highlighting specific errors in form fields when users input things wrong, calling people back to update them on their service request in an apartment. Either You can also find me on Studying Interaction Design. Writes to understand her thoughts about the world, design, and growing up. 

Excellent customer experience — marketing’s 5th ‘P’, a philosophy, an operational guideline, a minimum benchmark, or another reason for consultants to get hired?Along with ‘innovation’, ‘agile’ and ‘user experience’, there probably isn’t a more overused phrase; but what do we really need to do?For the last couple of years, it has been said from many directions, but pretty much everyone would agree, it is the sum total of how people engage with your brand or business.Not just in one channel, not just on one purchasing journey, not through one call to your contact centre — but all of them, for as long as that customer wants to.The experience you provide is at the heart of the value you offer: provide a slick, joined-up, efficient, friendly, transparent experience and you increase your brand’s equity. On the other hand, deliver an experience that is different across channels, frustrating, impersonal and jarring and your business could be in trouble.At the heart of a great customer experience is a personal one — and in order to deliver this, brands must first be knowledgeable, and then use that knowledge to craft a joined-up experience that supports their objectives.The challenge most businesses have is two-fold:To overcome these challenges, and to reach the heights of great customer experiences, there are some key pointers we can take from the best examples.Vodafone spent millions of pounds creating a new data layer that would help it understand the customer experience that occurred across all touchpoints of customer service, whether it was one of nine global contact centres, ‘self-help’ information on its website, or social media. This provided the first ‘channel agnostic’ view of what the customer experienced, which agent performed well, how many calls did they have to make to get one question answered, how many other places did they have to go to get answers to their questions.Data must be understood, architected and crafted to paint the picture you need — not what a system will give you. At its best, data provides the insight and catalyst for truly understanding what is working and what isn’t — unifying the disparate functions and activities across the business.Giffgaff would probably have never been born if creativity had not been at the heart of a new way of delivering a telecoms product. Years of frustration at dealing with contact centres, impenetrable bills and pain have been released with a ‘people-powered’ experience where fellow customers are at the heart of the service you receive.It’s about moving beyond using the customer’s name to understanding where they are (location), how they are interacting (device type, channel type) and what are they doing (searching vs buying vs getting help).Remembering what the customer did/wanted last time, providing content based on their behaviour, understanding a first time vs loyal customer, offering bundles vs single products, remembering web vs mobile behaviour, understanding behaviours at different times of the day, learning the rhythms of customers’ buying behaviour, offering information before it’s asked for — these are all simple examples that many businesses fall down on.Knowing what to do, and what is needed, is pretty straightforward — but delivering a great customer experience requires a different way of operating as a business. It needs you to be cross-functional, faster, more nimble — and utterly aligned on using a mix of the right data in the right way to understand customer behaviour, then creating, testing and learning until you are creating raving fans.

A person who makes users experience websites.Journalist. Designer. Developer. // I love you

I was wearing my dad’s oversized suits. I had picked them up from his closet in an array of colors during a visit home. Although some were years old and gathering dust, I felt lucky to have gained an entire suit collection without stepping foot in a store. I wore them proudly in dozens of meetings across Washington.It was two years later when my girlfriend, fed up with giant, baggy pockets, pleated pants, and jackets that could have fit nearly two of me, finally persuaded me to go shopping.What followed was a daylong trip to three Georgetown retailers, and a poignant lesson about how businesses create terrific, memorable experiences for their customers.I spoke with Jan van Teeffelen, Quality Manager for North America at In the process, I learned that the ingredients for a good offline customer experience are nearly identical to the components that make up an extraordinary digital experience.The brand was founded by a Dutch law student in 2000 and has since grown to more than 60 retail stores, 16 of which are in the United States and Canada. During my visit to Suitsupply, I immediately noticed that the salesman was well-dressed, but not showy or pretentious, and definitely didn’t talk down to a guy that makes only two or three major shopping trips per year.Being welcoming is a deliberate extension of the firm’s brand, said van Teeffelen. “You don’t have to dress up to get in a Suitsupply store,” he said. “If you come in with flip-flops, you get the same treatment as someone with a tuxedo and two bodyguards.”Authenticity is just as important in crafting an online experience, said Joan McGrath, Managing Director of Design  Development at Atlantic Media Strategies. An organization’s website, for instance, is simply one of the touchpoints through which a customer can connect with a brand, she said. It should reflect everything that the brand stands for.“Brand is experience,” McGrath said. “In order to deliver the perception they want, organizations have to recognize that an individual is going to experience the brand in a variety of ways.”This was in sharp contrast to my experience with a traditional suit retailer, where confusion over products ended up in 30 wasted minutes, two frazzled salespeople, and me being handed an arm full of pants that were several sizes two small.The digital equivalent to the Suitsupply experience is creating a website that efficiently solves problems for its audience. “Brand affinity is either reinforced or created through utility and purpose,” McGrath said. “Every single component of a website should be working hard to meet the needs of a user or accomplish a business goal.”The online attention span challenge is even more acute, and the barriers between consumers and brands are often higher. Customers are “just a click away from being gone,“ said Jim Gilmore, co-author of “The Experience Economy.” The art of excellent offline and online experience is about getting the customers to stick around. “Experience is all about spending time,” Gilmore said. “Digital experience is all about spending time with a screen.”An online network is just one barrier standing between the consumer and the brand online, McGrath said. Additionally, nearly 50% of Fortune 500 firms It’s no different online. McGrath said brands must recognize the context in which a user is consuming content. “A user will not remember a brand, if they’re coming in contact with it in the wild, if they do not understand how that brand fits into their lives,” McGrath said.Associate Director Managed by the staff at Atlantic Media Strategies, we cover the latest trends at the intersection of media and technology

Experience design could be considered an ancient practice — think rituals, ceremonies, drama, and architecture, which had been designed to create certain human experiences (McLellan, 2000). According to McLellan, the ancient practice of experience design became pervasive during the twentieth century due to the influence of media, which showcased the different types of experiences and the importance of effective design.But to non-practitioners today, the notion of “experience design” seemed confusing. As design fiction writer, Bruce Sterling (2009), pointed out, “Experience design is closer in spirit to theater, poetry or even philosophy than it is to the older assembly line. What on earth isn’t ‘experience?’” There were also many terms and acronyms that seemed similar to “experience design” e.g. user experience (UX), customer experience (CX), service design (SD), human-centered design (HCD). Many even had multiple interpretations by industry practitioners, which added to the confusion. So below was what I found:“Nonetheless, in practice, based on Forrester’s Q4 2014 Global Customer Experience/User Experience Online Survey, only 13% responded that their CX and UX functions were set up as one joint operation (Buley, 2015:p.5). CX functions tended to comprise of professionals from business-related backgrounds, and were responsible for measuring customer satisfaction and shaping a customer-centric culture in the company. UX functions were performed by professionals from design, human-computer interaction, anthropology, or cognitive psychology disciplines, and were responsible for driving the design process (Buley, 2015:p.3). This seemed to reflect the narrower definition of UX as a subset of CX in theory.From another perspective, the terms ““As the design profession seemed to prefer to keep nomenclature non-standardised to reflect the evolving nature of the field (Schneider  Stickdorn, 2010), it was important to appreciate the differences among common industry terms, so that experience designers could explain to non-designers how experience design could complement the work they do, and be useful to their businesses and lives.Berry, L.L., Carbone, L.P.  Haeckel, S.H. 2002, “Managing the Total Customer Experience”, Bodine, K. 2013, Buley, L. 2015, Hassenzahl, M. 2014, Innes, J. 2013, Lowden, T. 2014, Manning, H. 2010, McLellan, H. 2000, “Experience Design”, Pine, J.  Gilmore, J. 1998, Pullman, M.E.  Gross, M.A. 2004, “Ability of Experience Design Elements to Elicit Emotions and Loyalty Behaviors”, Reiss, E.L. 2014, Schneider, J.,  Stickdorn, M. (Eds.) 2010, Shedroff, N., Polaine, A., Løvlie, L.  Leichter, F. 2013, “QA”, Sterling, B. May 2009, “Design Fiction”, Crew member of the 1st full-time MA Digital Experience Design Research + Reports + Ideas from Experience Design Master Students  Friends 

One way to increase user engagement is to include gamification features to your mobile app functionality. Reward system is widely used in games, but there are certain game dynamics to be integrated into mobile app user experience. Well designed, gamification features contribute to Pushing people to earn rewards for using your app’s functionality can be beneficial for both parties. On the one hand, user is inclined to complete some actions knowing their efforts will be rewarded. Thus rewards motivate them to use the app.One the other hand, you get increased user engagement and an additional source of revenue. Rewards can be different and some of them can be achieved either by spending time trying to earn them or by making in-app purchases. Reward itself should provide some intrinsic value to the users. Empty points and meaningless badges are not sustainable and should be crossed out from your app development schedule. Therefore you need to come up with some reward ideas that can actually bring value to your users.One way of user motivation and an example of gamification spins around earning and collecting points, that can be used as in-app currency. Users are going to earn points in order to spend them in exchange for physical or digital goods.The most common examples for physical goods are frequent flier miles (Speaking about digital rewards, they have no value outside the app. But they can sometimes satisfy users even more, than physical goods. For example, stickers in a Peter Vogel, an entrepreneur who tried using virtual rewards in his business model, If we transfer virtual rewards into professional context, we observe a similar effect intrinsic nature of virtual rewards produces compared to extrinsic rewards. According to Sometimes digital rewards can satisfy people’s need of self-expression. In particular, if the digital goods for purchase allow the user to express their creativity, they are often highly sought after. Examples of such gamification technique include allowing a user to change the color of theme on their profile page in your app.Read also: Human desire of self-expression is a foundation brick in the concept of a social networking app, but we can also use this desire in any other sort of mobile applications. It can be expressed through an avatar, badges (Foursquare) and by any other virtual goods. You can come up with the right idea when you know your product and its users well enough.Allowing your users to send a digital gift to others on the network can work perfectly well for driving user retention and enabling social interactions. A digital gift, such as points you’ve earned, encourages a relationship between the giver and the receiver and pulls the receiver into the app to redeem the gift.Such examples of gamification are being used by Rewards come in combination with achievements in gamified mobile apps. While big achievement are rewarded with something special, like digital badges or trophies, unlocking a new level, points or a new status, little achievements should also be recognized, especially when your user just started engaging with your app.Some examples of achievement recognition is sending an email or a push notification to the user when they just got the first follower or the first story recommendation. By sending an email with the sentence “Fun fact: Shakespeare only got 2 recommends on his first Medium story,” People tend to share their achievements especially if it wasn’t easy to achieve. Your role here is to remind them to do it right at the moment of achievement. This will help you acquire more users.Challenges in mobile apps are generally represented by goals. Users like to feel as if they have a mission when using an app. For example, you may challenge your customers to check in at five retail stores your Sometimes recognition for achievement is not enough as people are social creatures and like to compare their achievements to the achievements of the others and beat the scores somebody else has set.Points can be used as a way to denote achievements, whereas leaderboards can actually rank users and their work. Leaderboards motivate users to become players, which encourages competitiveness in return and can be especially useful for driving a desired user behavior.Gamifying a mobile app with competitions and leaderboards is not a problem for an app developer. By offering your users a chance to compete with their friends or other users, you get them engaged with your mobile application and grow you app’s network.Competition perfectly fits People like to be proud of themselves and to expose their earned proficiency. Levels or ratings are digital equivalent of a rank in the army or a title on a business card. Of course, earned statuses deserve to be highlighted.In Twitter your status is emphasized by the number of readers you have, in Facebook – the number of likes or subscribers to your page. LinkedIn has a profile strength and connections. The profile strength is designed to encourage LinkedIn users to add as much self-curated data as possible. You achieve ‘All Star’ status by completing all sections of your Profile and by having recommendations, connections and endorsements. More on that Levels, user ratings or statuses, no matter what you call it, can drive your users towards the functionality you want them to use and have a potential monetization implication. Give it a serious thought in your mobile app development process.Read also: Most developers use Gamifying a mobile app doesn’t turn it into a game, but can greatly enhance user experience, making your app more engaging. Engagement results in your app’s increased visibility, discoverability, growth in retention and revenue generation. Gamification is a powerful driver of your user desired behavior.Will be looking forward to bringing gamification features to your mobile app development.Always at your service, YalantisJournalist. Mobile technology. Apps development. iOS, Android, Backend. Startups. Interviews. Creative writer.Mobile app technology, iOS  Android development, UX  Design, Startup interviews  Digests

Up until recently I’ve been a huge fan of AirBnb and the concept of collaborative consumption in general. Uber? I recently tried to book an apartment for a 3 night trip to Amsterdam. After a few weeks of enjoyable AirBnb surfing, my wish list was populated with some stunning apartments totalling between £885-£1079 for the 6 of us. At about £150–180 each we were more than happy with the places on offer to us.Once I’d collected together our group fund I went about booking our first choice- a £885 beauty of a 3 bed. As a second-time AirBnb user with one successful trip under my belt, I gave little thought to pressing the ‘Request to Book’ button your eye is so deliberately drawn to on the right of the page.Straight-forward enough. Next I read the small print at the bottom of the page:Perfect, that’s what I wanted to do; book the apartment I’d been so tempted by, at the agreed price, on the given date. Duh.12 or so hours passed. My reservation was declined. The reason? The apartment wasn’t available for that date.Wait… what? When I searched for apartments, AirBnb was only showing me available options, wasn’t it? The short answer is no.Although saddened (and a little angered) I understood that hosts probably have their apartments on many sites. I’d been pipped-to-the-post on this occasion. Comforted by the email I’d received from AirBnb;I got straight back to my quest, did what was suggested and logged into AirBnb to find a new place.Because of the handy list I’d filled earlier with the favourites from my search, it didn’t take long. The encouragement from AirBnb, coupled with the need to replace and confirm our holiday home, meant within 10 minutes I’d requested to book another apartment, this time costing £1079 for 6 of us.‘Request to Book’. Compose message. ‘Book Now’. Bam we’re on our way to Amsterdam.Or not.This time, a mere 90 minutes later, my second attempt at booking had been I didn’t even get a message from the host on this occasion. As a group of two couples and two female companions, with a gleaming review on my completed and verified profile, I couldn’t see a reason why this host had declined (other than that apartment too was unavailable). *Sigh*. Shouldn’t a company like AirBnb have a better calendar system in place?While checking my email after being notified of the second booking failure by text, my mood darkened.I glanced at a second email sent separately from the first. ‘AirBnb Payment Update’. I’d missed this from the first set of emails somehow. Fault on my part there. Assuming this would be a confirmation of my cancelled payment I opened it.Shit. Surely when it says ‘show up on your statement’ it just means the transaction won’t be visible in my account.Ok so at this point I’ll admit, it was naive of me to not have checked my bank account after the first booking failed. I’m not an experienced online shopper nor am I an expert AirBnb user. Some of you may even call me an But in my defence I had been comforted by the smooth running of my first booking and encouraged by the dialogue provided throughout my second AirBnb experience. Not once inside the booking process did AirBnb mention that my money may not be available again for 7 working days if the host declined or didn’t reply.I checked my account.Where’s my money? Holy shit First frantic call to the bank:“Hey, I tried to book with AirBnb. I made two attempts to make a reservation and they were both declined. I was told I hadn’t been charged but my account is empty?! What’s going on?”“Hi, yes your account has been authorised for two separate transactions. One for £885 and the other for £1079.”“But.. I’ve not booked an apartment?”“The money has not left your account. However we can’t stop or remove the pending transaction until AirBnb voids the authorisation. Until then your money is frozen. I’d ring them and ask them to cancel it. Once cancelled the money should immediately be available in your account.”Phew. Quick ring AirBnb. *Searches AirBnb for number*. Where’s the Ok. First hopeful call with AirBnb:“Hi I’ve just had two bookings declined. My account is now empty. **insert long complaint similar to this blog post here**. My bank has told me that all you need to do your end is cancel the authorisation, and my account will be back to normal.”“Hey, sorry to hear about that. When your reservations were declined we automatically voided the authorisations, this however sometimes takes 7 working days to show up in your account.”“You understand that this means I not only no longer have the funds to make a booking for my holiday, but also means I don’t have enough money to do my food shop. Or enough to get the bus to work. You’ve debited the best part of 2k and I don’t even have an apartment!”“I understand that. Unfortunately there’s nothing we can do. The issue now lies with your bank. Here at Airbnb we recommend that you contact the host first before requesting to book.”“Contact the host first? What do you mean?”“At the bottom of the page there is a button that says ‘Contact Host’. We reccommend you do this first to check availability etc before you request to book.”“@*!@££***@ arrrgh *scrolls manically*. That tiny button at the very bottom of the page after all the reviews?! But what about the huge call to action on the right. I thought that was what I was doing in my message when I requested to book!”Again here’s another instance you may well call me an But am I such a fool? Maybe. But when booking, I was at a point where I held AirBnb as a company I trusted and admired. Their interface was considered and beautiful. The apartments on offer, alluring and plentiful. I trusted that once I clicked that ‘Request to book’ button, the message I attached to my request would be considered by the host, and if the host wasn’t happy or my requests couldn’t be filled, my booking would be automatically cancelled and my account wouldn’t be charged. I actually believed that was the only way to do it. Back to the AirBnb call:“Yes we understand that the button could probably be better placed and that it could definitely be clearer. It’s obvious for us here, but we can see how that might not be obvious for our users. Sorry about that. If you ring your bank they will be able to tell you how long it will be before the money returns to your account.”“But that means I can’t book another apartment because I’m bankrupt, and I won’t get a refund until 12 days before I travel.”“We’re sorry there’s nothing we can do. Please contact your bank.”I have contacted my bank and AirBnb back-and-forth at the time of writing, several times, over 16 hours. They continue to blame each other. This is the current solution put forward by AirBnb:I phoned my bank, and they said, categorically, my card and transaction details could not be sent by email or fax to them by AirBnb, due to these methods being insecure. The problem apparently lies with AirBnb’s merchant bank. Wonderful. What a mess.Not only am I now penniless, but I can’t go and buy dinner for this week. Nor can I book another apartment.Via badly designed user experience I have screwed up. Royally. Sorry friends.I compare the experience to how we treat the users at my company. It would be the equivalent of us advertising a course as having spaces, asking the user to pay X amount, then informing the user that the course is actually sold out, encouraging them to book and pay for another, only to find out that was one was sold out too. Oh and forgetting to mention their money won’t be back with them for 7 working days, until after they’d booked.Unsurprisingly I’m not the only one with this complaint. A quick Twitter search and all So please AirBnb, let me love you as I once did. Clean up your UX. Make it slick like your UI. And sort out my holiday.End rant.London Grad. Currently working for 

In his book A pioneer in the study of communication, McLuhan looked at forms of media and the impact they had on the way we used them to spread our messages.In the context of digital experience, the phrase “the medium is the message” has powerful meaning.The interactive and connected nature of the digital medium allows our messages to be more dynamic, targeted, and experiential than ever before. And if we use the medium correctly, our messages can be more powerful and have greater reach as well.As user experience designers this digital medium is our canvas, and it is our responsibility to create experiences that maximize the potential of this medium.When we set out to create user experiences, the challenge is to find the perfect balance of what the medium has to offer, without taking away from the message.If the message of an experience is not clear, then the design has failed.When it comes to creating digital experiences where the message really matters, one place to look for examples is the news industry.Over the past few years, we’ve seen technology change how news comes to us and how we respond to the news.Social media has given us the power to be our own news sources. We no longer need to tune into news outlets, we can simply find people on social media who are at the scene and get updates from them instead of relying on journalists to feed us information.However, as great as it is to use social media to choose our own sources, it’s still nice to have media outlets curate the news for us and tell us the story.It’s still nice to have someone be our guides we try and understand news, especially breaking news, and sift through the overwhelming volume of information that is posted on social media.This week, we saw a great example of how the medium got in the way of the message for one large news organization.CNN recently launched a site re-design. Based on a blog post written by the CNN Digital Editor In Chief I’d love to hear more from CNN about the metrics they hoped to impact through the changes made to the entire digital platform. What key performance indicators were they planning to track? What changes were they expecting to see in their numbers?Simply just wanting to make headlines bigger (check) and images bigger (check, check, check), aren’t the most concrete reasons for a re-design.To effectively create a great design solution, you need to understand The response to the CNN re-design has been mixed. Most people that I follow on Twitter who are in the design or user experience field really aren’t impressed with it.These two people on Twitter made great points about some key problems with the CNN re-design.First, Second, We know that on the Internet, people are like hunters. They scan the page to try and gather information that’s important to them and then pounce (ok, click) on the one thing that interests them most.CNN’s new homepage for breaking news takes away the element of scannability and thus results in what I’d say is a frustrating and somewhat unsatisfying experience.If you really want to get into the details of the old and new CNN homepage, then check out Rob Griffiths’ post Honestly, I wasn’t too impressed with the CNN re-design either.It wasn’t until the terrorist attacks in Paris that I realized just how poor the user experience of the CNN homepage was and how it literally became a barrier for me to get access to breaking news.At about noon on Wednesday, January 7, I went to the CNN homepage to see what was new with the breaking story out of Paris. I was hoping to get a summary of any new facts that emerged, perhaps new photos, or reactions from world leaders.Unfortunately, when I got to the homepage, I saw this:It’s too bad that a leading news organization with millions of people visiting their website created a homepage that simply fails to achieve so many goals someone has when they visit the CNN homepage.As a design professional, it’s frustrating because unfortunately, a lot of people who don’t understand what user experience really is, are going to look at this and think, “wow this is awesome”. I’m certain that somewhere, someone in a company is having a meeting with their team and saying “we need to do this to our homepage because CNN did it, so it must be right.”In the spirit of helping people understand what’s fundamentally wrong with the CNN re-design when it comes to breaking news, here are some thoughts on basic parts of the user experience that seem flawed to me.The The As it turns out, the news crawl actually stems from something called “the zipper” which was a 380 foot and 5 foot tall light board that wrapped around the New York Times building. Residents used to flock to the building to see election returns or things like the World Series results come in. Before a digital screen, Times employees would hand write notes on chalkboards as well as write notes on massive sheets of paper. The point here is that there’s a lot of wasted space for the giant image on the CNN homepage.If better care had ben taken in creating a design that was flexible enough to show more news while balancing the importance of an image, then maybe the site wouldn’t even need the news crawl at the bottom.As a user, the CNN homepage simply fails at giving me access to information at a time when information is the most desired thing. The good news is, it’s a problem that can be solved.If I’d been working on this, I would have tried to put myself in the shoes of someone who is coming to the CNN Homepage to seek out breaking news. As a user, what am I thinking? What questions am I hoping to have answered? What is my mood and current state of mind? What goals do I have?Some key questions and goals that I would have had in mind if I was designing the CNN breaking news homepage include:To answer some of these questions and achieve some of these goals, I would have made better use of the space that’s currently occupied by the giant image.More information about the story could have easily been incorporated into this space. Perhaps having links to the last few articles published about the story. Providing the user with access to a photo gallery of that story would have been quite helpful.And if CNN wants to get serious about social, I also would consider providing the user with links to the Twitter accounts of the reporters covering the current breaking news.The great thing about storytelling today is that thanks to technology, we have a medium that lets us tell stories in many ways — photos, videos, audio clips, tweets, full articles.We all have different ways in which we like to consume content. And, these preferences vary depending on our environments too. Maybe at work we like to just look at photos because that’s quick. But, while we’re at home later in the evening, we have time to read longer articles.Given that we all consume content in different ways, we need to ensure that our designs provide us with these options — providing us with access to as much of this content as possible so that we can choose our own adventure of how they want to consume the content.Since the writing of this post,The changes they made are a good improvement, but there’s still a lot more they could do.I’m sure they are studying the data to see how users are responding and how the changes are impacting key metrics and funnels that I’m sure they’re tracking.Here’s a little “The big lesson here is that user experience design, or any design for that matter, is not about just making things look nice! The key to great design is that the person who ultimately uses that design is actually able to achieve their goals.So, when someone goes to the CNN homepage, what’s their goal? It’s to see … well, news!The homepage re-design put far too much emphasis on a giant photo.And sometimes, a photo is I love product design, UX, travel,  running. I publish a newsletter, The UX Notebook. Sign up here → 

A good discussion guide is arguably the most important part of your testing plan. It is the map that will lead you the learnings you need, and will help ensure that your research sessions are productive. Discussion guides can take many forms — some will be tight scripts that you will follow closely, and some will be rough outlines that act as a quick reference tool for the person conducting research. In our experience, a discussion guide that falls somewhere in the middle is preferable. Either way, their purpose is to keep research focused, and moving towards a the learning objectives you’ve outlined.A discussion guide is a set of questions/tasks/topics that you, the researcher, wish to walk a research participant through in order to reach your learning objectives. They will facilitate the conversation between you and the participant, and dictate its ebbs and flows. Do you want to emphasize one part of the test more than another? The discussion guide will reflect this in the questions you include.Interview-based research is organized by topics, whereas screen-based research is focused on tasks. You questions should be separated by topic/task to make it easy to skim and use.Here’s (LINK) an example of a discussion guide we used recently.The best discussion guides move from easy and specific questions, to more difficult, higher-level ones. Starting with “softball” questions will help the research participant get comfortable, and get in the habit of speaking their mind. Once you’ve worked through the standard questions, it’s best to move onto questions specific to the learning objectives at hand. If you are testing with a prototype, this is often where you’d ask questions and run through tasks that deal with it. Finally, you work towards open-ended questions that may be more difficult cognitively for the research participant. A typical discussion guide will loosely follow this format:Here you introduce the rules of the research session, and set expectations for what it will be like.These are the aforementioned “softball” questions that help provide context for later questions you will ask. They often fall into the demographic category (e.g. Name? Age? Where do you work? Where do you live? etc).Questions related to the stimuli you are presenting the user. If there are no stimuli to show (i.e. it is basic ethnographic research), this is the section where you would ask questions related to the user’s experience within the specific topic area you are studying.Those questions that require some thinking from the participant. For example, questions like “based on what you’ve seen today, would you sign up for _____?” or “what is missing from this prototype, in your opinion?” fall into this category.Don’t be a slave to your discussion guide! It’s just that, a “guide”. The goal should be to have a directed conversation that flows naturally. The guide should help facilitate this conversation and act as a reference tool for the researcher. It is not meant to be a completely prescriptive script that you must follow to the letter. You do not have to go through the discussion guide in perfect order — as a researcher, you should react to what your user is saying, and move to related questions to keep the flow natural. And you do not have to A beginners guide to running User Research for design teams.Short, actionable advice to help your design team get started running user research today.

At WWDC 2015 Apple introduced three new search index APIs. These three tools are meant to provide appropriate information to Spotlight so that native app content can be indexed and web content can deep link to native apps.Two of these tools work as you would expect. Apple will now index URLs using Open Graph and Schema.org and show results in Spotlight and Safari. Core Spotlight can be used to index local content and results will show up in Spotlight.The third tool is completely different. Apple has extended The documentation of What is revolutionary here is that we have a native app publishing user activities to a It feels like something that Facebook would have introduced. But Facebook search is limited to content inside Facebook which limits the kinds of data that appears in their index.Apple on the other hand is trying to index all native app content as well as any web based content they can. Users spend most of their time inside native applications which means Apple’s index could rival Google in terms of total indexed content. Spotlight also has access to local, private data, Apple can include that content as well. All this data will be able to link inside native apps further speeding up the user experience.We will have to wait and see if iOS users and developers actually use these tools. We know from past projects that Apple’s search algorithms can feel underwhelming compared to Google. But given input that Apple will be using to power their search tools they may finally have a leg up over their competitors.Founder of WillCall, iOS developer.
Regretter of nothing.Great articles for iOS development

I wrote this Field Note when I was leading a small team of UX designers at an agency. Its original form was as a Keynote presentation to portray an approach to Experience Design, and further demystify the deliverables created during the UX process. This effort was also to address an internal misconception that a UX wireframe document was simply a “layout” — and nothing more. So it began with the question…If you do a Then I dissected it further to explain what it means, and how much more a UX wireframe schematic truly is.Connecting with a user through a familiar language cognitively is the first step to communicating with them. The following are some principles that help user experience designs to be more relatable for users to engage with.A user-centric vocabulary, when viewed in a series, should speak the same language consistently. If it doesn’t, then there is no pattern or a common language. You wouldn’t substitute Good design always has a pattern that is familiar and this concept applies to Information Design in user experiences for Paths also have hierarchies. Not only across pages, but also within the pages themselves helping to further focus on specific objectives. Comics or Graphic Novels utilize a similar concept to lead the audience through a story on a page — from panel-to-panel, and also within a panel.Providing multiple paths of interests to all user types across a digital product is one of the goals of curating information. If a user finds what he or she is looking for, AND enjoys the process of getting there, then the digital product has communicated well, creating a happy user!If the User-Centric Vocabulary is the design, then Authenticity is the human touch in the creation process. It is the voice of the communicator, or creator of the experience. The following are some standards that should be considered in the process for authenticity.In the end, the UX wireframe documents are schematics with strategically designed narratives, formulated authentically with all the cognitive ingredients necessary to evoke an experience in the user. Its success depends on how well its planned, communicated — and most of all experienced.Conceptualizing  crafting engaging digital experiences are my passion. Visit IxDeology.com for more.Processes, discoveries  theories on experience design for engaging storytelling. Visit IxDeology.com for more.

Student at cognitics engineering school (Defining the features of a product is the first step of the design process and implies The purpose of personas is to create reliable and realistic representations of key audience segments for reference. These representations should be based on previous interviews and observations. They are not ‘agents’ or ‘actors’ in a script, Practically, a persona must answer these questions:A persona has a name, a job, an age, an address, a familial situation, digital habits and every detail which can be relevant for the product. A picture or a draw can also be helpful to the team in order to give the persona an identity.Why does this persona need your product, what are his or her issues, how frequently will he or she use it, etc.This is whenIt takes quite a long time to create these personas because every detail must be consistent with reality and it is hard to find relevant pictures which are free to use.The more you spend time with your personas, the more you get to know them and the more they help you craft to suit their actual needs.Features define Drawings illustrate Drawing mockups and anticipating articulations of pages highly accelerated the development of the app. We decided to use an User tests allow the designers to observe how people use an application. It must be done with prototypes to ensure that the product is well designed for users.The earlier issues are identified and fixed, the less expensive the cost will be both in terms of staff time and possible impact on the schedule. During a user test, you will:A test is partly composed ofWe only made one test for the moment because we only had a very primitive release but it was already very useful. The tasks were very basic : “Can you post an ad to give away your bike ?” or “Can you tell me if the nearest recycling center is open right now ?” but we solved The app is only in its first step of development and has to be improved but we can already make a point about its benefits. Involving users in the design process is a continuous working which is particularity important at the beginning of the design process. Indeed, elaborating the design according to user experience instead of adjusting it is the best solution to make an app relevant.Élève ingénieure en cognitique à lA place for fun, ideas and community.

I recently came across a brilliant article that posed an interesting question that had me thinking for a while now. In her excellent “This past summer, I finished my graduate studies and wrote a thesis on “I argued that almost since its emancipation as a discipline in the early 1900s, graphic design has been used as a tool to distribute messages for a select group of customers. These customers were those who could afford design services, and who had access to distribution channels. To summarize, designers were basically the hired guns to help those with influence and power spread their messages to the masses.Think traditional advertising: Company X somehow defines a goal. They decide what they want the message to be and how they want to distribute it to the masses — traditionally through the “typical” mass-media of the time, radio, TV, newspapers, and to some extend outdoor signs. Designers would then be given this message and beautify it, making it appealing to the passively consuming masses.In the 50s and 60s, during the height of modernist design, the detached professional, the designer who would not question the motives behind a given task, became the industry’s ideal; designers would execute the brief without questioning possible implications. This uncritical practice resulted in design that mainly focused on the needs of their customers, their clients. The wants and needs of the actual end users were not part of the process. They were merely manipulated, not researched and considered.It was only later in the century that the design disciplines shifted towards a more human-centered, or often-phrased, user-centered approach. While I would argue that this is significantly better, I believe it is still too limited, which brings us back to Huberts argument.I believe that good design requires taking into account all stakeholders. As she points out, that involves the business stakeholders, the technology stakeholders, the end users, and several more. The challenge lies in correctly identifying the important stakeholders for any given project, and unearthing their needs. As a discipline, UX design prides itself in going beyond the surface, so covering this aspect in our research process should only be a logical conclusion.Why else would we have the ongoing debate about the roles and differences between UI and UX design, where UX professionals claim to go “deeper”, to “unearth user needs”, instead of “applying mere cosmetics”? (These are not direct quotes, but I am sure you could find these arguments in a very similar form in countless blog posts.)Some experiences will involve stakeholders with conflicting interests, resulting in potentially wicked problems. You might want to increase the possible traffic flow a road can handle because you want to ensure that commuters that take this route have a smooth passage. On the other hand, the increased traffic volume might cause an increased noise level, that the residents will not tolerate. Business owners might complain that it decreases the walkability of the area, so that they get less walkins. All of their interests need to be considered in order to arrive at a possible lasting solution. You may prioritize one group’s needs over others, but at least you do so consciously, which can help you plan for compensating the potential shortcomings of the compromise.In the same way it is necessary for UX design to consider the experience goals of all important stakeholders in order to deliver an experience that is meaningful and sustainably engaging. To identify stakeholders requires systems thinking, to discover connectedness and interdependencies. Service design uses a tool called stakeholder mapping. The I do not wish to rebrand the discipline, but I would like to propose to think of user experience design as “stakeholder experience design”. Internally, it can serve for us as a guide to remember that we are not only designing for an end user, but that we also need to keep in mind other parties that are involved in our projects, whether they are actively contributing or are just affected by our product indirectly. We may choose to prioritize the needs of particular groups of stakeholders over those of others, but let us at least understand why we make these decisions and be mindful of them and gauge the consequences of these choices.Designer  Thinker. Specializing in UX and UI design. Lover of music and ethnic food. And dot grid paper.

In recent years the demanding for UX designers has increased, and it’s still increasing more and more as well as the companies are putting more attention to it.Back in early days of software market engineers and product managers were taught to believe that the full features software is the sign that the software is worth to buy which will make software features a competitive advantage between softwares available in the market, this was true because there weren’t so many people putting software products on the market, which will leave the user with no choice only to use the complex product that is available now.However, time has changed and the software products market has grown which make the user want to choose between so many products with the same features, and because of that people don’t want to learn how to use a complex products and they are always want the simplest and intuitive solution.Take a look at some of the large companies now like Apple, Samsung, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, …the main competitive advantage between them is the Customer’s User Experience.how much joy of use I would get while I am checking my email in my smartphone?, and did I reach my goal to save more money after using my online saas accounting service,… all these kinds of questions the UX designer would play a role in answering them, so lets take a more deep look in the UX definition and what are the components of it.as you can see from the definition above user experience is more than usability, usability factors such as ease of use,efficiency and learnability are still very important in all products but are not enough.Usability, usefulness, functionality, and emotional impact are components of user experience and should be considered by the user experience designer from his first day working on building the product, and for more clarity lets take a look at each of them and then go to the process of user experience design.Professional User Experience designer consider in their mind while they’re working these components, but what is the process and guidelines for ensuring this.In the figure above you will see five steps to release the MVP (Minimum Viable Product) or first release and the other steps (6,7) are for refining the product.In the next articles of this series I will explain how to implement each step and what is the goal to achieve from each step.UI-UX designer  front-end web developer from Palestine. Interested in Entrepreneurship, Startups, Innovation, Philosophy, Music, And Swimming

I was surprised how popular the I was trying to figure it out — why Stories are inherently subjective —just like the experiences we create. We’re part of multiple story threads, and are constantly shaping storyworlds and telling stories. At any point in time we see the world through a particular lens — a lens made up of multiple stories and influences. We can’t separate the experiential story we create from the stories we’re immersed in.Every organisation has its own story — the way it sees the world, it’s perspective, characters, values and mission. An organisation’s story shapes the things it prioritises, the way it’s processes are structured, what it values and ultimately its approach to customers and creating experiences.Some organisational stories are more conducive to creating better experiences. Stories that value employee autonomy, satisfaction, and ideas are generally better at creating great experiences for customers.But what do you do if the organisational story isn’t built to create great experiences? How do you help people see another story?The power of the experience design process is that we can give people a window to see outside the story they’re immersed in.There’s emotion and non-literal concepts contained in stories. When you tell a story you can communicate an experiential truth so that others can understand it — in a way that isn’t possible through literal description. It’s the empathy, the sudden heart-awareness or emotional connection that gets transmitted. It’s why storytelling is so powerful for inspiring people or communicating vision.You can use storytelling to help people really see — feelingly see — a different reality, or future. When you’re trying to create a shift or total step change in experience this is really important. It’s hard for your team and stakeholders to get behind and create something they have no conceptual awareness of, and you can’t impart that conceptual awareness through regular communication. As an experience designer you need to be able to story-tell the experience you are envisioning, to put the spark into the hearts of whoever is listening.This usually means that elevator pitches aren’t very useful. I’ve found that they get bloated, off point, and designed by committee. A bloated, rigidly-structured elevator pitch makes you feel like you have a goal when you really don’t.Future-visioning with your team is much more helpful in my experience. For those unfamiliar, this exercise involves engaging your team to close their eyes and bring to mind what the experience will look like when successfully complete. Most people are not aware of what they’ve written for this story until you ask them to call it to mind and put it on paper.When you’re trying to create something that sits comfortably within a real person’s experience, you need to know what that real experience is. What are all the contextual factors? What is their motivation? What are they trying to do, get out of it, and what’s the next thing? What’s the bigger picture of this story?You’ll never get this from surveys, market segments and so on — only from hearing from real people. You need to observe the story, and probe to find out what’s behind what you see and hear. It can be really hard to extract the real experience from people — because people are so great at telling you a censored version, what you want to hear and what they think they should say. Getting people relaxed, getting them to tell stories to each other, informal settings, stories of real past experiences are great ways to build an understanding of the complex story that people experience.When a user engages with an interface they’re taking in a story. The way the content is structured on the page, the cues and clues the elements give, the aesthetic character all come together to place the user in a context, with a direction and a desire to do something.Every decision made — from task flows to colour palettes will contribute to how a user viscerally responds to the interface.Even if you know what they’re trying to do, and the right button is there and people are able to find it in usability tests — do they want to? Sometimes utility isn’t enough. For example if a banking interface doesn’t appear credible or trustworthy this can impact users’ decisions to engage. The story the interface tells is more than the sum of its parts — more than just the task flow, the usability, placement of elements and color palette. The overall visual story has a huge impact on the experience.Designers have gold dust — we get to play with magic, beautiful things, post its, creativity. Other people naturally gravitate to this light, and this most obviously shows up when stakeholders get over-involved in visual design since it’s the most tangible design output.It can sometimes be really tempting to hold all this magic close to your chest — after all you’re the designer, why is everyone else trying to steal your thunder?But what kind of story does this weave? What kind of experience can you create for customers if you can’t even craft the right experience for your team? Like I mentioned in 22 rules, I’m constantly amazed at the results when I open up and share the process with others, involve them and spread the gold dust around.It’s about bringing your team together around a single united goal — and giving them the framework and space to work together and with you to build out the vision. Bring your facilitation skills and empathy to work in those moments when your team comes together.It’s always complex working with other people and I’m learning from my mistakes every day, but we can bring our experience design powers to play at creating great experiences for our teams, for our clients, This is something I always try to bring myself back to. It’s always really tempting to think our story is the ‘truth’. For me this can sometimes lead to conflicts, and make it really difficult for me to really listen to the stories of others.Once you lock yourself into a particular story it’s hard to open up, it’s hard to see the other stories, and it’s hard to really listen. It’s funny that we can often suspend our story to really listen to users — during testing and research — but it can be really hard to suspend our story in day to day life.It’s often hard to really see our story though — once you’re inside it, you can’t see the walls, narrative structure, characterization. So it can be hard to see what’s motivating you, informing your decisions, interactions and plot.I’ve found that multiple avenues of ‘seeing’ it help. Getting feedback from others (how do they see your story?), quiet moments of meditation and reflection, being aware of emotional intensity (probe behind it — research techniques on yourself), and keeping a diary to start seeing patterns. Once you see parts of your story you can start unraveling them.I hope these were useful and resonated with you. I’d love to hear stories from the field — related or not, and whether or not you agree with the above sentiments. Feel free to shout out on twitter, or leave a comment below.Change agent. Common sense dispenser. Enthusiastic  people focused. Into designing invisible experiences that get out of your way and just let you be a person.My observations or insights into Experience design, subjectivity, philosophy, people

Although every act of Design is about creating an experience of some sort, but when we consciously want to improve an existing experience or introduce a new experience, we need to do it carefully and systematically.Experience Design is about creating design solutions (Every experience has four basic parts:The ‘Engagement’ part is the experience itself.Strong memories (positive or negative) don’t form unless there is a satisfactory conclusion at the end of the engaging experience.Memories are translation of emotions. And these emotions are not ‘created’ but ‘triggered’. Traditionally the designers concentrate on ‘creating’, whereas experience design is all about ‘triggering’.A good experience should have components that ‘trigger’ the right kind of lasting emotions through our 5 senses:Experiences are also ‘context’ and ‘time’ sensitive. Not able to find a parking slot when you are running late for a meeting can be a totally different experience vs. not able to find a parking slot when you are casually out for shopping.The context in which a user experiences something also has profound impact on the memory of that experience. Context as described in Webster:This group of conditions are the most difficult for any designer to anticipate, hence making it difficult to predict the experiences that the users will take away with them, as each users context will be determined by the state of mind, time and place.What a designer can do is to consider these three aspects while designing the solution to the problem they are trying to solve:Sr. User Experience Design Expert @ SAP

For the past few years, We think Brainscape does a great job at user onboarding, so our marketing director, Kelly Drill, sat down with Andrew to get his advice for first-time startup founders on how to get it right.When you realize that a very large percentage of your customer base is made up of new customers because you’re not retaining the ones you already have, then you know you have to start working on getting that initial user experience right.I teach a class at Do you use mouse-overs, pop-up bubbles or five-second video tutorials with a talking head? I don’t know. That’s totally based on your brand, the type of product and the medium you’re using. But the concept of revealing just bite-sized epiphanies one at a time is really key.I build custom software for startups as the CEO of Dolphin Micro (Insight into startup culture, recruiting and management

A story about how to make sure the design meets the business objectsWhen I was at Scanlife, I was the solo UX/UI designer. My first task was to redesign their SaaS product, a web application. Although this web app generated the most revenue for the company, there was a concern that it was not user friendly, and therefore diminishing potential returns. Thus, the user experience was seen as very important for growing revenue. My goal was to deliver a more user-friendly experience and to design a more elegant interface.After I conducted usability testing, I provided advices about how to improve the learnability, memorability and satisfaction for users. At the same time, I was always enjoying making sure that my design concept met the business need. So I gathered information with different stakeholders and asked questions like “Why we want to redesign this?” “Which features do you wish to optimize?” and “Which user actions would you like to encourage most?” etc. These questions helped me to understand the bushiness goals and what’s the real problem I need to solve.I believe the quality of the look and feel of a product is an important indicator of the credibility. As you can see from the screenshot below, the look and feel of the old UI was not friendly and modern. The home page was very confusing. Users were unlikely to know where to start. On the other hand, the web app didn’t have the navigation to info users where they stand and what’s the next step. When users wanted to create a code, it took to many steps to complete this task. Each steps was not clear and organized.This application was a tool mainly for the marketers (targeted users). Thus, the functionality had the most priority. However, there was a conflict about which feature had the most priority, “Create a code” or “Manage codes”. The team couldn’t make a decision about which feature should be presented to the users in the first place. To solve that conflict, I built two-user journey based on analyzing the type of users and scenarios. As a result, I differentiated the experience for new users and power users. For the new users, their prioritized task was to create a code. In this case, they will see the “create a code” feature after login to the app. For the power users, they will see the “manage codes” features after login to the app.After choosing a model for the most common visitor, the typical user path was much clearer. By reducing the steps necessary to create a code action, the experience was simplified. To reduce and simplify the steps of creating a code as much as possible, a pop-up box was designed to connect the actions of create, download, and style a code.In the future version, I envisioned additional engaging user features involved in this platform, such as “Explore” and “ Case study”. Following the design theory of Donald Norman: “Pleasurable engagement” fun and friendly elements embedded in the design will form a high quality product.I started this project on June 3rd with zero guidance. I feel excited there were so much design work to be done and I wanted to deliver a better product under a tight timeline at the same time. Within one month and a half, I successfully helped the team launched the new UI on July 14th. Everyone seems pleased by the new UI. Being an agile designer in a highly collaborative team means fast iteration. If someone asked me to see my heavy annotated wireframes, I didn’t have those anyway. I believe those are not agile. The magic was in communication and willing to collected and validated their feedback and iterated quickly. During the process of design, I led the design and helped the team started a more effective communication way for design collaboration.I feel it is necessary to tell my story so people can understand design can really improve the product. Good design is a certainly indicator of product’s credibility.Designer  Thinker

The field of User Experience continues to evolve, and in doing so it continues to mature in its nomenclature. There are plenty of resources that attempt to spell out the subtle differences in roles betweenA lot of the work that UX professionals do is technical, or We all come across visual designers from time to time that don’t see UX as a thing of it’s own. From the point of view of some designers, the User Experience (in their mind) is dominated by the look of a product. How it works, comes second..and is often compromised. Not to say that the opposite isn’t true as well — If we had a great product (from a UX professional’s point of view), but it looked awful.. it also wouldn’t work. The truth is, there is a symbiosis between the two, and this is why often visual is placed under the umbrella of UX.Does it make sense though, to place visual design under the umbrella of UX, when in practice — in companies around the world the two are positioned in a completely different manner? There is not a single project that comes to mind, where there was not friction between UX and visual. Some of which, is just collaboration — this is a good thing. A degree of friction between the two should yield a better end result. That said, all too often I see designers that throw a fuss at every suggestion put forward by a UX professional. And once again, the opposite is also true where UX professionals will hand over a wireframe as it it were set in stone.Can a UX architect “do” design? Yes. Just as a digital designer can pick up Photoshop and Illustrator and start designing. Just as someone could tomorrow rebrand themselves as a construction worker and pick up a bucket, cement and some bricks. The point here, is that serious professionals may be better off picking one thing to hone their knowledge in, and sharpen their skills on, whilst basking in and collaborating with expertise and experience of others.UX professionals already wear several (sometimes opposing) hats; the business hat, the user hat. The more hats thrown into the mix, the less one is actually able to accomplish on any of those fronts. Think about your favourite cocktail. Take the mojito for example. It’s key flavours are those of rum, mint and lime. Each are distinctly felt, yet form an ensemble. How many cocktails do you know that have more than 5 key flavours? or god forbid, 10? It wouldn’t be a cocktail anymore, it just becomes mush. There is a time and place for everything, but when one demands the best, it’s not the right way. The same is true for professions.There are without a doubt websites that could easily be done with a visual designer with a bit of a UX mind, and the project would be fine for it. Particularly when it comes to smaller companies, or unfunded startups it is still often tempting to hire a hybrid UX/UI Designer. There is a time and place for that, and it all depends on the project domain and scope.It is amazingly important to think broadly, as some have named the T-shaped profile. All too often I see UX professionals with no understanding of the technical domain; which would be fine, if they were interested in learning a bit about it. Or some from a technical background, with little interest in the visual design side. These are warning signs. erious professionals need to stay curious, keep open minded. They need to be a swiss army knife of knowledge and interest -not a blunt kitchen knife. All whilst being a great collaborator. Now that, is a hard trick to pull off.UX Thought comments on trends around User Experience design and strives to be a comprehensive, mind-opening place to learn from.

Finding a doctor can be a hard task, but it shouldn’t be.We set out to make finding the exact doctor you need fast, easy and enjoyable. We sent out a survey to more than 12,000-area doctors asking them to vote on the best doctors in the area. We then asked the doctors with the most votes for additional information: Addresses, phone numbers, insurance accepted, hospital affiliations, etc.We’ve had this Top Doctors feature for a number of years, but it hasn’t been particularly usable. You can have a great idea and even great data, but if you can’t make getting to that data easy for users, it’s not worth much. That’s where we were.This is what users were greeted with when they went to our old Top Doctors feature.We made three big decisions to clean this up:When I started at Washingtonian earlier this year, one of my biggest pushes was to put user experience and usability at the core of all new Web products. We spent hours upon hours ironing out little usability details and QAing how the filters worked.You can see which filters you have selected in the left-hand column (or at the top on mobile), but we also wanted to reinforce the idea of filters by putting a plain English sentence at the top of the results. Some users will quickly get the filtering concept, but others will benefit greatly from having their selection broken down into an English sentence.We provide even more information on individual pages for doctors. These individual doctor listings provide the same functionality as our story pages. Doctors can submit to use videos, photo galleries, QAs, interactive charts, etc.We want to delight users, even when we’re not building something sexy. And I think we’ve achieved that with Building a quick way for users to find a doctor Our work here isn’t done. We’ve launched this new feature, and we will continue to work on converting the rest of the site over to this new design. But now is a great time to start collecting data from users.We are going to do a combination of collecting website data, usability tests with live users and surveys to improve our Web products. Top Doctors is a live feature that users can use, and it has our new menu system and design that the rest of washingtonian.com will be getting later this year. We can get feedback from users on how they like this new feature and design and use that feedback to help inform the rest of the redesign process.If we waited to launch everything at once in an effort to surprise users, we wouldn’t be able to get feedback from users to help refine the rest of our redesign. It’s always good to get feedback from users, and it’s good to get that feedback earlier than later.Also, our relaunched Top Doctors feature is users’ first glimpse into our new website launching later this year. We are switching to WordPress as content management system and are rolling out a new, responsive, mobile-first design that is clean and content-focused.Intersection of tech  liberal arts. UX, usability, product development, design and content.

For several months before I released my book, The App Design Handbook, I had a to-do item to figure out what platform to use to sell the book. I looked at platforms ranging from Pulley to Quixly. I also tried a couple WordPress e-commerce plugins and even considered writing my own integration with Stripe.On a side note, if you ever find yourself about to program a custom solution just to save a few dollars, stop. Your time is probably worth more than the little bit you would save on fees.Anyway, each of these platforms had issues. The e-commerce plugins all had a complicated, multi-step checkout process. Who needs a shopping cart if you are buying a single product? Other options required me to use PayPal, which I don’t trust.Gumroad was the option that stood out. They promised a simple payment process with easy file delivery. I’m not sure what made me not choose them right away. But then Ryan Delk, the head of business development at Gumroad, reached out, asking if I’d be interested in using them.I asked a bunch of questions about affiliate support, PDF stamping, and exporting customer information. Even though they didn’t support affiliate sales or PDF stamping (turns out neither are necessary), I decided to go with them. It seemed hypocritical to write a book about creating great experiences with software, but then choose a payment provider with a poor user experience.After selling my book through them for nearly 2 months, I’d like to share what I think about their product.The attention to detail in the user experience is fantastic. Starting with the simple checkout process, you can purchase a product just by filling in your email address and credit card information. They don’t even ask for your name. Compare that to other providers that want name, email, address, password, and everything else just to deliver a PDF file to you.Seriously, give their checkout process a try. It is really slick.My emails have always been answered promptly. The support has been great, and I’ve never felt like my issue was just another ticket in the queue. Because they are such a small team they really take a personal approach to support. Waiting more than 30 minutes for an answer was rare. Ryan once answered my emails at 1:30 a.m. Not sure why he was working then, but I appreciated it!Using their modal feature, I can embed the entire sales process into my site. It appears seamless to the purchaser. It is a very slick checkout process that is sure to work well whatever platform you are using to manage the rest of your site.Their official policy is to pay out your balance every month at the end of the month. Normally this would be just fine, except that I expected a large launch and didn’t want a huge balance sitting in there for a month (since I launched on the 4th). They kindly agreed to pay out after 7 days, but they actually sent me a payment after 3 days, which made me very happy since the balance was $18,000!My experience with them wasn’t flawless. But no matter what provider you choose, there will be issues. So what really matters is how that provider handles the problems.After you check out, Gumroad displays a really simple receipt. They also send this to the customer through email. It basically just says, “You purchased The App Design Handbook for $39; here’s a download link.” It’s really simple. Unfortunately, many people needed more detail, or something more official looking for tax purposes.I ended up making custom receipts in Numbers and sending them out to about 15 different customers. I’ve talked with Sahil (the founder of Gumroad) about this, and they are working on putting together a more detailed receipt.During the launch a few people emailed to say that they never received an email with the download link. It turns out Gumroad had some email delivery issues right then. Not a big deal since I could just search the admin panel for their email address and click the “Resend Receipt” button. It would have been more frustrating, except that resending receipts is so easy for any purchase.Issuing a refund is really easy in Gumroad, but unfortunately the seller is responsible for all the fees (5% + $0.25) from the original payment. Normally this is fine, except that some customers ended up purchasing twice. It was a combination of user error and a Gumroad bug. After talking with Ryan and Sahil about it they credited my account for the few dollars in fees. They said they now have code in place to prevent the same user from purchasing a product twice, which should take care of this issue.All of these issues were resolved promptly, making me like their team even more every time I asked for help.In any product review there is really only one question that matters. And that is:“After your experiences selling with Gumroad, would you use them again?”Well, thanks for asking. There are some features they don’t have, but they make up for it with a killer user experience. To everyone I talked to on the Gumroad team, thanks for helping make my first book such a success. It was a pleasure working with you all!So I am definitely using them for my next book, which you can You should give P.S. If you are still shopping around I recommend reading Sacha Greif’s Founder and Designer at ConvertKit. App designer, writer, traveler.Musings on design, marketing, and online business.

Well, I almost spent two whole months reading only about UX, UI, Design strategies, ergonomics, product design and also got my hands dirty on few projects during my internship, and more outside.So, starting from scratch, after too much research on the basics of UX Design, what I can tell you is, UX Design is not fancy Photoshop design that visually attracts, nor has nothing to do with colors and fonts (in the initial stages). Not even layouts and page structures.In a broader view, everything about design comes under UX. Graphic design, UI, branding, web design, colors and what not! A graphic designer uses attractive colors and designs to attract users. A branding strategist creates a branding manual keeping in mind that users can remember their brand well. A programmer makes sure that there is no bug or error on the front-end when the users are using the site/app/product.In simple words, UX is all problem solving. The best example would be a scissor. Two rings to put your fingers and hold it firmly, sharp blades to cut. You can easily understand how to use it just by looking at it for the first time.Remember the And UX is not showing off what you can do. The latest Samsung Galaxy S are flooded with features that are amazing, but of no use. Who would want to stop the video playing if they’re not looking at the screen? How would Indians watch porn if that is the case? Also, who would want rotate the screen in all directions just to look at something in 3D, when the same thing can be achieved with a pinch and swipe gestures.UX is only about simplifying things for the end-users and giving them a better experience.Gmail does it best yet. How many times did Gmail warn you “No attachments found. Still want to send the email?” when you accidentally click send without attaching? Isn’t it easy to use Google Docs than Zoho? How simple is it to organize something on Dropbox? All these explain how brilliantly their UX is designed.Everything that roams around the user is UX. But, one person cannot create the layout, design it, code it, do the strategy, research and analyze everything. So, to make it easier, it has been split to multiple verticals to take care of things respectively. While the UX designer comes up with the user-centered content architecture and strategy, the UI designer creates the PS. There are a lot of substitute names for UX. Information architect (one who builds the content/page flow). Design Technologist (this is an interesting aspect. One who is an expert in both design and technology. So that he has a good knowledge on what design aspects are doable with technology and what not)I’m sitting here editing HTML documents most of the time. There is a lot of conception in the today’s industry that UX is something fancy to have. Even those companies, after getting to know what UX is, understand the importance of a UX designer and hire one, just because they think it’s important. Of course, UX designer is very important to have. Unless the there is a team which can do everything that a UX designer wants, there is nothing a UX designer can do alone. So, UX designer can only do amazing things (in case of a website/app), if there are UI designers/developers around. Or also if he is someone with amazing visual aesthetic sense and developing skills. And a product designer, someone who can visualize it and build it, in case of a physical product.MAD. In love with polygons and typefaces. Slightly OCD-ish.Reviews, journeys and analysis about using Indian websites, apps and services. Also thoughts and writings by Indian UXers/Design Thinkers.

In the 90’s most things on the web was text-based; it’s not the case today. Consumers have a lot of options in this fast-moving world. The desire to keep moving has never been more prominent whether it is traffic on the road, fast food or even websites.Getting web users to your site is hard enough as is; it is even harder to keep them there. User experience directly or indirectly effects SEO rankings; it certainly affects consumer buying process.You must be thinking “I don’t have a budget that will stretch a UX or User Experience designer”.While big brands and names need a UX designer it does not mean you neglect UX completely. Here are some handy tips that you can adopt to improve website user experience.Blogger, Entrepreneur and Infographic lover. Thrives to produce content with a twist. Blogs at This is a collections for articles about business including startups, business developments, and management. Managed by 

In 2014 venture capitalists raised $12.4 billion USD to support fintech revolution. This year 12.4b has been raised in first six months and has the potential to double until end of it. With the five biggest banks controlling nearly $15 trillion in assets, fintech’s $12.4 billion in venture investments this year look like peanuts. Fintech trend is only growing stronger and for the worst it is attacking most profitable sectors of banking.Traditional banks and financial sectors have been playing catch-up for many years. Nothing much has changed over past 20 years. Bank managers are hesitant to embracing changes and new technologies. Some may disagree, saying that banks has come a long way these years, but in reality all improvements that were done was in favour of banks than customers.Online banking has reduced need for regular bank branch visits. Everything can be done online. This changed how we receive banking services not banking model itself. Online banking, probably, wouldn’t happen if accountants wouldn’t notice that maintenance costs of online banking system is less than branches.For banks, moving online was strategic and beneficial move. Just because you are on the web doesn’t mean you understand it. On the other hand fintech is understanding clients better and has right online strategy.Fintech revolution started during last financial crisis in 2008. Previous finance sector employees, who lost their jobs, wasn’t ready to give up on finance. They teamed up with IT professionals and started creating fintech startups that were solving people problems instead of banking problems. Due crisis, trust in traditional banks was damaged and everyone was eager to save and manage their money. This was huge opportunity window and new finance oriented services were booming.Fintech revolution brought us better finance management tools, mobile payments, crowdfunding, fast loans, peer to peer lending. All this was done by brilliant minds that came together and created services where banks struggled. Fintech innovators understand real struggle customers face when they have to interact with bank services.Fintech startups understands that splitting banking services into separate and mastering at least one of them will grant them recognition and maximum customer satisfaction. This is where banks has failed with their online services. There are so many of them and none of them are perfect. Most of them are overcomplicated and confusing. Some fintech startups have vision, that traditional banks lacks and this vision is user experience oriented vision.Fintech startup founders thinks and sees finances through customer eyes. They choose to be all about customer and create products they want to use. Banks, on the other hand, focuses on better loans, fees, branch locations, but uses care for comfort, accessibility and simplicity. This is how crowdfunding and fast loans became so popular. It is easier to start a Kickstarter campaign and receive necessary product funding than go to bank branch and ask for loan.More and more entrepreneurs are choosing this and banks are losing potential customers just because at right time they didn’t choose to change in favour of customers. They thought — we already have good formulated loan program, why would it need to be changed.Same happened with fast loans and personal finance management tools. Almost all online banking services has personal finance management tools, but have you found them or even tried to use? Probably no, you didn’t even know they existed and if you even tried you would stop using them because of their complexity. And then there is Mint success story about simply perfect customer experience built personal finance management tool. Mint does only that is needed in simple and beautiful package.For some of us life with banks can be hard, but without them it would be brutal. Banks are not going to bankrupt or disappear, but almost everyone agrees — they need to embrace changes. The majority of established banks already have platforms to deliver new services — challenge is in the exploitation. Ability to shift from product centric thinking into more customer centric and focused set of offerings. It may challenge traditional banking operating models. It will require skills of IT, UX and product teams to deliver finance services that customers will be happy to pay to use.Today’s digital customers have higher expectations than ever. To be successful, companies need to get to new innovative approaches to attract and retain customers through highly relevant and personalised experiences across multiple channels. Although customers now have the freedom to switch banks more quickly than ever, it’s the job of the banks themselves to unlock added services and ultimately put the customers firmly at the centre of what they do. Having great online services, designed towards users is a positive step towards this goal.To hit customers expectations successfully, banks should be looking outside of the traditional banking industry. They should hire designers, customer experience professionals, startupers and innovators who have an understanding of customers’ needs and expectations. This strategy mixed with flexible product innovation is providing a formula for success in traditional banking environments which if followed will enable banks to compete with the fintech disruptors in the market.User interface (#UI) and experience (#UX) #design agency focused on human centered design for #fintech and #banking industry. 

Last year, MC Saatchi asked us to design the user experience, visual layer and overall messaging for the redesign of We were thrilled at the opportunity to create an experience that could help patients and caregivers at a critical and vulnerable time in their lives. The James is one of the country’s leading cancer and research hospitals and one of one of twenty-one Comprehensive Cancer hospitals in the country.Sometimes the biggest design challenge is not an image, color or function, it’s a word.A challenge with The James was finding the right word or phrase for their largest area of content, Cancer Care  Treatment, under Cancer Specialties. This is where the “meat” of the site lives, so to speak. It contains in-depth information on each type of cancer The James treats, latest research and prevention, as well as the team of professionals, locations and outcomes specific to The James. There’s so much information that each type of cancer could be thought of as a site in itself.We had at least three distinct audiences at The James: one, patients and caregivers, two physicians and nurses, and three, researchers. These audiences come to the site with very different backgrounds in the subject, as well as vastly different emotional states. Our nomenclature had to be meaningful to all of them.Patients could mistake a title like Cancer Care for a more general bucket that is just a few pages on how The James treats cancer as a whole. Researchers could mistake the section as a place that only applied to patients.First we used personas developed from in-person interviews to do a deep-dive into the needs, backgrounds and expectations of each of our audience segments. Then we looked at how other organizations categorized their information, to see if there was a consensus that had already been reached — not really. After narrowing down our choices, we presented our recommendation to our client. We then further refined the phrases with our main stakeholders and tested the navigation with a remote user sample.From there we landed on Cancer Specialties  Cancer Care  Treatment, which ultimately tested well during our in-person usability study.The proof is in the pudding, however; and we anxiously await metrics and feedback to see if our audience easily and quickly find what they are looking for.It was an honor to be a partner in telling The James’ story. Everyday, the people at The James help and care for patients as well as advancing cancer research globally.Along with completely re-architecting the information and navigation, we improved the tools and functions, making finding a doctor, a clinical trial or an event seamless. We totally re-imagined the design layer, updating the site using The James’ modern, clean aesthetic and designing responsive versions of each screen.In, we added personal touches, such as profile callouts within the main navigation, highlighting the fantastic team of doctors, nurses, caregivers and volunteers who help those who need it most.Finally, we implemented several rounds of usability testing, recruiting cancer patients and their caregivers, as well as the hospital’s doctors and researchers to test the new design and functionality. We iterated on those findings, further refining the user experience.The Glue is a women-owned, full-service agency specializing in rich meaningful experiences and simple, beautiful design.The official blog of The Glue, a digital agency specializing in rich meaningful experiences and simple, beautiful design.

In 1969, the Musée des Arts Décoratifs in Paris asked Charles and Ray Eames, America’s most influential 20th-century designers, to participate in an exhibition, “Qu-est-ce que le design?” (What Is Design?) Charles drew a diagram for the exhibit that defined design by situating it within the needs of its participants: society, the client, the design office, the designer.Charles’ diagram makes a remarkable promise: if designers serve the needs of those involved in the design process, designers may perform in a space of “conviction and enthusiasm.”Designers free from doubt have a better chance of succeeding. Conviction can bolster the confidence in, and speed of, making design decisions; enthusiasm can drive designers to apply extra attention and care to their work.The Eames diagram identifies the I propose the following.Repeat as necessary.UX Director 

Recentemente, James começou a estudar e No exemplo acima, do site da HM, fotos ajudam o comprador a visualizar o produto de diferentes ângulosSegundo James, um fotógrafo tira uma foto de uma forma específica para atribuir um significado específico a ela. Nós também desenhamos interfaces tentando influenciar a percepção das pessoas sobre determinada marca ou produto. Por isso mesmo, parece apropriado que compartilhemos do mesmo vocabulário dos fotógrafos, já que constantemente usamos seu trabalho para aprimorar o nosso.Quando perguntado sobre “Uma foto usável é uma que Bom uso de foto no catálogo de produtos do site Made.comSegundo Jared Spool Fotos de conteúdo são aquelas que adicionam algum valor à página. Exemplos desse tipo de foto são aquelas imagens de produto que realmente ajudam o consumidor a escolher entre uma opção e outra. Fotos de ornamentação podem ser consideradas apenas ilustrativas ou preenchedoras de conteúdo. Elas raramente adicionam valor à página, a não ser pelo fato de separarem um pouco os grandes blocos de conteúdo.Abaixo uma apresentação de James sobre o tema, que já virou até livro. Nela você confere mais exemplos sobre bons e maus usos de fotos em interfaces, além de aprender um pouco sobre como o cérebro humano reage a tais imagens:E aí? Até quando a gente vai achar que foto não é coisa de UX Designer?Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

One way or another, every smart home device aims to make life more enjoyable. But often, these devices end up perpetuating pains they originally aimed to alleviate, or even heal, all because of disjointed user experiences. Take connected light bulbs for example. Where it used to take minimal physical effort and a single flip of a switch, simply turning off your lights now requires six steps. Here at Keen Home, we believe simplicity is a thing of beauty. That’s why creating a simple, seamless user experience (UX) has been a top priority to us.For the past few months, we’ve been designing, refining, and testing the Keen Home app. We’ve been doing this over and over again because we want to ensure that when Keen Home Smart Vents are installed in a home, the owner has the clearest, simplest, and most enjoyable experience possible. This app is vital to the Smart Vent ecosystem, so we want to make sure it is as close to perfect as possible in both function and usability. We want you to not only understand how the Smart Vent works, but how you will interact with the vents and integrate them into their everyday life. To give you an idea of how we are creating the best user experience possible, we’re going to take you through our app development process, from beginning to end.Let’s start from the beginning. You may or may not remember our early app concepts, but these designs opened our eyes to what we hadn’t yet considered. For example, the gradient of colors that were intended to be a visual tool for users to adjust the temperature of a particular room, ended up being a little brighter and bolder than we wanted.In addition to modifying the aesthetics, we also realized we needed to update the controls interface. Originally, the experience of using the Keen Home app centered around the homeowner controlling the temperature profile of individual rooms (ie: how comfortable they felt in them). However, after running through design exercises and a handful of stakeholder interviews with customers, Keen Home founders, and the Keen Home team, we determined that this experience didn’t properly convey what was actually happening with Smart Vents.Rather than measuring the temperature of individual rooms, Smart Vents measure the temperature of air flowing into them. Taking these measurements allows the vents to determine how best to condition a room to meet a homeowner’s comfort preferences. Because of this, the homeowner is really controlling air flow rather than temperature.It may not seem like it, but this distinction creates an entirely different controls paradigm that, if not communicated well to the homeowner, can cause confusion. We knew we needed to change the experience and controls of the app to clarify how the Smart Vent actually functions.Melding education and utility into 750x1334 pixels proved to be a challenge. To do it and create a seamless user experience, we established three goals:Our app needed to1. Clearly demonstrate the operation and function of the vents2. Assist homeowners in determining the quantity and placement of the vents3. Help homeowners understand the interplay between airflow and temperatureWe wanted to make sure our ideas aligned with what users actually wanted, so we again sought outside perspectives. We met with stakeholders and surveyed the Keen Home community to learn what they want to accomplish with Smart Vents. From this research, we learned that homeowners want to control the aperture of the vents (how opened or closed they are) and to control the temperature of individual rooms. However, many didn’t realized that all of this relates to airflow. Our challenge became teaching how controlling airflow changes temperature, and what this means for placement of the vents.We’re easing you into it, starting with pure airflow control and working into regulating temperature with our beta flow-offset feature. With this beta feature, homeowners can tell the Smart Vents to automatically adjust airflow into a room to meet a required temperature adjustment. This is done by establishing the temperature in the duct when the HVAC is off as a baseline for the room. The vent then adjusts the amount of air it is letting into the room based on this base temperature, the temperature of the air flowing through the vents, and the angle of louver occlusion.Once we felt we had a solid vision for the user experience and a way to achieve it. The next step was to bring the app to life. To start designing the whole experience — from the moment the app is opened to the moment it is closed — we first developed simplified user stories to illustrate what the user will see, what they need to be able to do, and the correlated instructions. These stories then allowed us to develop more complex stories to illustrate deeper interactions, such as the motivations users have for using the app and the first interaction they have in the app based on those motivations. Piecing together all possible user motivations, expectations, and interactions results in wireframe models. Wireframes create the skeletal framework and the flow of user experience in the app, and can be uploaded to simulation tools like After completing the user stories and wireframes, we moved on to the actual design of the user interface (UI). Our Creative Director, Oscar G. Torres, turned to 3rd party apps and controls experiences to find the perfect aesthetic for our interface, referencing concepts as varied as the Nest app to car dashboards. To keep track of all these inspirations we set up a Pinterest board, which you can explore To ensure the mockups were pixel perfect for the development team, Oscar (also a talented developer) created high fidelity wireframes for them to reference. These high quality renderings of the app interface illustrated every detail and were as close as we could get to the finished product. To ensure data would be collected and distributed as envisioned, Oscar worked with Keen Home software engineer, Nir Levanon, to map out the Keen Home application protocol interface (API) endpoints. These endpoints connect the API to the app, and ultimately drive it and the Smart Vent, but we will get more into this in future posts. All of this has gotten us to where we are now. With everyone’s help, we’ve confidently handed off the high fidelity wireframes to the development team for them to bring the Keen Home app to life.We still have some work to do before the app is ready, but as you can tell, a lot goes into designing a simple, seamless interface that translates physical realities into a digital experience. Through the design process, we learned a lot about how homeowners expect to control their comfort, and we inevitably made adjustments along the way. From the color palette to the controls interface, everything about the Keen Home app experience was prototyped, refined, and sometimes changed outright as we worked towards the finished interface. And it doesn’t end there. All of the work to code and bring the app designs to life is underway. We’ll have more behind-the-scenes glimpses at this aspect of app development soon.Have questions about designing apps for proactive hardware? Hit us up on twitter Developing hardware and software that enhances the core functions of a home, so your home can start taking care of you. See for yourself at keenhome.io.

Let me start with a small story about a field trip of a friend who was working on a My friend and his team tried a lot to inform the villagers about all the negative effects of open defecation and after an immense effort, there were few families who were ready to build toilets in their homes. Yes, you might be as shocked as I was to know that people could actually have problems with having toilets in their homes! Well, wait for it, the most interesting part is yet to come.It so happens that the designers of the toilet seats had a wonderful concept in their mind. They thought that maybe by redesigning the foot slabs (or whatever they call it) to the shape of real feet, they might make the toilet more usable for the villagers. It indeed seemed like a good idea to me until I heard of what actually happened when few families installed the toilet in their homes.The footsteps of Lord Rama are considered to be very sacred in the Hindu Mythology. There are some really well known temples built around these footsteps and millions of people visit them with true devotion.So, are the people in those villages stupid? Or are the designers at fault? In the book “In another incident, I was with another friend with whom we went to a very posh locality of Mumbai for dining. After we finished, while were going out of the restaurant, this guy was trying to open the door when one part of the door was already open. Yes, people often do errors, but as a designer, one should never use it as an excuse for not testing it with users.So where do we lose the track? why do amazing products never reach the right users and even if they do, why do the users ditch the product in a short while? One possible reason is that the entrepreneurs are so focused on solving a problem by themselves that they often forget validating their ideas/solutions with the users itself.In the past few years, there has been a paradigm shift in India with the advent of IT companies. With millions of students passing out each year as computer science graduates and getting into the IT firms like Wipro, Infosys etc the Indian economy is slowly shifting from agro based economy to service based economy. But amidst all these changes, there has been a lot of change on another front. Companies like Flipkart, Myntra and Micromax have popped up. And they are coming up with some amazing ideas and strategies to succeed in the Indian market. An example is the introduction of “Cash on Delivery” in India, which has been an amazing success and they continue to innovate their services and improve them further.This promises us and validates the talent of Indian developers and entrepreneurs who are gearing up to compete with mammoths of the market like Amazon and Samsung.So what makes us the underdogs when it comes to making amazing products? Understanding the user’s need and validating the solution is something that a startup in India cannot afford to miss. 

You can find lists like this one all over the internet, but most include a daunting list of 10-20 books. This is great for anyone already entrenched in UX design, but for the uninitiated it’s a bit heavy handed. So let’s break it down to just three books:1. This is a great intro for anyone interested in design, period. Norman writes in a friendly tone that will set you up to start thinking about real design problems.2. This is another well written, warm, and friendly book. Krug’s read is more web-focussed than 3. This book builds off of This list is short and sweet, but there may be better books out there that I’ve skipped. If you know of any leave a comment or shoot me a tweet Design, coffee, good music, great weather, 2 cats, and constantly exploring. Interaction designer @ DigitalOcean. Follow me at 

All brands are now in the business of providing experiences. Consumers judge a brand by the totality of their experience, the sum of all the touchpoints, products, and services that are embedded within the overall experience. This is a new precedence over the traditional emphasis on designing and building stand-alone products and services. The experience starts at the very inception point of brand awareness and is comprised of every touchpoint, across all devices and channels, every moment of truth, proud referral, and whisper of dissatisfaction along the way. This holistic experience, pre-during-and-post transaction, will define the brand. The experience will be fluid and ever-changing, influenced by seemingly invisible forces, but in the end it must wrestled, dissected, and proactively designed.As technology spills over into different channels and platforms, the ability to conceptualize and design experiences is getting more challenging and interesting. Our interaction with technology has evovled, overtime creating variations of experiences from stand-alone (website) to multi-channel (website + in-store) to connected (laptop + iPhone + iPad) to a more holistic customer experience that connects digital with other touch points (digital + customer service + social). Now wearable technology is about to explode creating a more ubiquitous experience, digital meshing deeper into the physical world.There are different filters for empathy that make-up and inform the design of an experience with this broader ecosystem:· Information: stimulus pulled by consumer and pushed by brandsThe principles that guide experience design must apply to the entire ecosystem. While we have beautifully designed consumer facing products with rigorous customer-centric methodologies, we also need to look “back stage” or “behind the scenes” at the tools and capabilities as they are vital contributors to the customer experience equation.The goal is to design a customer experience that is synchronized, accessible to all devices and connections, responsively design to appropriate platforms, and to seamless adapt when changing contexts. To meet this goal, these backstage contributors need common tracking, measurement, easy administration, efficient reuse, and ability to test across all platform and channels.A healthy ecosystem by definition means balance, so customer-centricity should be broaden to “people-centricity” (consumers, employees, contractors, partners). Empathy and design thinking should be applied to consumer-facing applications as well as the supporting behind the scene tools that are producing the experience.digital + product + ux + innovationHow consumers and technology are changing brands

So now that you have created vividly descriptive mobile personas, let’s integrate them into a mobile user journey to better understand the complete user experience.A mobile user journey is a design framework that facilitates the mapping of the sequence of user activities and touch points that characterize a mobile app user experience. A journey map is a graphical visualization that charts the users’ level of confidence and patience when performing various touch points in a mobile interaction flow.A mobile user journey is an effective tool that helps your organization to look at the complete mobile app user experience from the users’ perspective, from understanding their situation, actions, thoughts, feelings, emotional experience to touch points that allow your users to reach their goals.Design is not just about picking a color pallet that your users will find pleasing or coming up with a cutting-edge UI design. Great design requires holistic visual, interaction and emotion-focused user experience to create a mobile app that your users will absolutely love.Before focusing on your mobile app capabilities, sound design should start from the organization of the system, and from the possible relationships and connections between the parts which can be activated by the user action.The value of a mobile user journey map is that it illustrates the complexity of mobile app user experience, highlighting the questions that they ask, the issues that they raise, the roadblocks that they encounter in the journey timeline. From the user journey, you can gain invaluable insights into designing a mobile user experience that is relevant, efficient, usable, and appealing, all the while ensuring that each touch point evokes a positive emotion.Rushing ahead without conducting a research-driven mobile user journey is effectively rushing to fail. You might end up with a mobile app faster but it will miss the mark because of the “we know what’s best for you” mindset, leaving you with an expensive experiment and a negative ROI to justify to CXOs.To extract meaningful and realistic insights, a mobile user journey must be grounded firmly on in-depth primary research. It has to be based on concrete, measurable data to craft the most realistic user journey. The more evidence you have, the more likely that you will be able to design a homerun user experience based on reality. If you follow the methodology prescribed in Amyx+McKinsey’s Mobile Persona best practices article, you have a head start. During the ethnographic research and analysis for mobile personas, you can also conduct user interviews and observations to map out their journeys.As you interview potential users, you will soon realize that mobile user journeys are not linear and can often take many forms. Depending on the persona segment and the situational need, there may be a myriad of paths to achieve a given goal. It’s important to note these complexities but not losing sight of the primary journey taken by the majority of your users.It’s important to remember that users are complex and their interaction with the mobile app in the journey will be equally complex with many paths weaving in and out. A good user journey map will give insight into the emotional and analytical aspects of users’ experience and help you to understand what users think and feel about every touch point and how those emotions prompt them to act.A well-constructed mobile user journey succinctly and precisely calls out the user scenarios, goals, actions, thoughts, feelings, and emotions to understand what is happening at each phase of the journey.Turn your understanding of users’ needs into a set of guiding principles for your mobile user journey map. Use your guiding principles as pillars of truths that represent the objectives and desires of your users. For banking apps, users expect high mobile app security to protect their account information and financial transactions. For social game apps, people want the mobile app to be fun and engaging.Logically segment out the timeline into key stages. Depending on the subject matter nature of your mobile app, the phases will vary but it should, at the highest level, define the major and distinct stages in the mobile user journey. For a social media app, perhaps the user activities and touch points are grouped into download/ register, invite, share and follow. An e-commerce mobile app might entail research, compare, purchase and support.The situation is a narration of the user scenario that describes what the user is doing in each stage and what actions do they need to take to move to the next phase. It should serve as the contextual hub from which user’s goals, choices, questions, pain points and uncertainties can be further explored under thoughts, feelings, and experience.What are the rational decision-making questions and trade-off considerations that the user is mentally processing? Perhaps, they are weighing the cost-benefit of a transaction or evaluating the relevance of curated content. These thoughts represent the important questions and decision points that users need to sort out before they can confidently move to the next step.Behind every action is intent and motivation. Why is the user motivated to keep going to the next stage? What feelings are they experiencing? Are they overwhelmed by uncertainty, apprehension, confusion, frustration or distrust? Unmasking users’ feelings provide powerful insights into how best to overcome those points of potential indecision or abandonment.As described in Amyx+McKinsey’s article “How to Create a Mobile App That People Love”, useful and usable are not sufficient conditions for a mobile app to be loved by users. If the mobile app experience does not evoke positive emotions throughout the user journey, your mobile app will receive a lukewarm reception. You have to hone in on the emotional troughs and rethink your design choices to shape the desired emotional state.As a best practice, design your mobile app for emotion. What emotions will resonate with the user in the mobile user journey? Determine why each emotional state is desirable. Why will these emotions make your app experience compelling to your mobile personas? What visual and interactive features can you design to evoke the desired emotions?Based on the insights gained across thoughts, feelings, emotional experience in the phases of the journey, make specific recommendations on ways to improve your mobile app user experience. This might mean collapsing the number of steps required to accomplish a task, communicating clearer instructions, reducing the number of choices or arming users with information to make decisions.Building a mobile app that users love requires a fine balance of art and science. To make the process more science-driven based on quantitative data, develop a rigorous mobile user journey from ethnographic research. The mobile app user journey map can reveal the true colors of interaction touch points, remove barriers that can stand in the way of preventing users from proceeding to the next stage, and gain invaluable insights into the users’ emotional experience that can help refine UI navigation, interaction design, information architecture, and content decisions, resulting in a mobile app user experience that is usable, useful and emotionally engaging.Originally published on Amyx+McKinsey is a smart wearables strategy + mobile innovation + development agency specializing in smart wearables and app development. As a thought leader in wearable tech, Amyx+McKinsey has the creative horsepower and the development prowess to execute even the most complex client engagements.Our capabilities and service offerings include smart wearables strategy, mobile innovation, business design, user experience design, mobile technology and product development.We employ a flexible methodology and approach to fit the client and needs and objectives while adapting to changing mobile environments.URL: Managing Partner at Venture1st, CEO at Amyx McKinsey, Voted Top 25 Global Speaker, Wearables  IoT Thought Leader, TEDx, Author

I recently picked up Let’s start with Part 1 of the book, “Philosophy”. The first part of the book is mostly an introductory text, targeted at junior UX professionals or people that are getting into the field. However, more experienced designers will still find good resources and refreshing notes. Leah writes in such an inviting way that I found myself turning pages constantly at every opportunity I had.Here are some of the notes I have so far:The Pillar of UX is It’s important to keep a DiscoveryStrategyUser ResearchDesignImplementationFrom this process you can derive a RequirementsSolution DesignTechnical BuildPost BuildFocus on strong simple The entire team should be involved in the UX process. When brainstorming, make ideas tangible (sketches, whiteboard…) to avoid pointless discussions and truly listen.During UX and the entire design process for that matter, do pre-meetings before ‘big reveals’ so you can gather early feedback and get people on board with the main ideas.How to achieve it vs What people wantIn design research, you look for evidence of habits, biases, needs with the objective of developing empathy and insight into why people do what they do and to spark inspiring ideas for how products can meet unmet needs and enhance their lives.Some of the best resources mentioned:I am now reading Pt 2, “Practise” where Leah will give us her UX cookbook and hands-on advice. Update: Senior Product Designer 

Who needs apps for their security and privacy, and why? When developing apps, it’s useful to clarify and specify distinct user groups with different characteristics and needs. A common way to make these needs distinct and tangible is to develop personas: profiles of hypothetical users which summarize a body of data about those users.The A user persona is a focused, easy-to-relate-to summary of research on a group of people who might use a particular piece of software, hardware, or a service. Personas help us engage in complex systems thinking about people using these tools, and how the tools fit into their lives.A persona is not a description of a single person! Instead, it is an aggregate of a range of interviews and other information from a specific group of users with similar goals and backgrounds. In this way, personas avoid the problems of relying on anecdotes.Personas serve a handful of uses:Personas come in most useful early in a development cycle (whether you’re calling that “requirements analysis,” “hypothesis statements,” or whatever your flavor of development calls it.)Normally, a range of personas informs the development of one product or feature, specifying different needs users may have. However, it is likely that the specific use cases described here may be better served by a range of apps, websites, hardware, and services — different ones for different cases.These user personas were primarily developed to communicate user needs to developers of open-source tools for the protection of privacy and security. However, we expect the personas will be of use also to developers of mainstream software and services in thinking about sensitive cases.These personas were developed from a range of sources:They were further refined by Gillian “Gus” Andrews of the Open Internet Tools Project, and Robert Stribley of Razorfish.Sketches were provided by artist Senior usability fellow at simplysecure.org . Research portfolio: 

Now that the Internet (especially the Since the times of The maturity of digital tools and services has reached a point in which now we see more and more of them trying to bridge the gap between physical and digital, often in novel ways and adapt to our natural ways of interaction by involving the use of more senses (not just sight or the so called “touch”).In the process, we have created terms to describe these new digital tools, like “apps”, which is almost unequivocally used to describe mobile applications, albeit for different kinds of platforms.Even the usage of the words “real” and “virtual” has taken a slightly different meaning. Until recently, those of us who live and work online referred toa face-to-face meeting as it happening IRL (“in real life”) as opposed to interactions just via digital channels (e.g.: email, chat, Skype, etc). In the documentary So how do we call this space, those products and services (and why not, experiences too) that merge the physical and digital domain into an unicum?Several actors have come with their own names for them, whose appication varies depending on the nature of the product, service (or experience). Let’s look at some of them:Well, first and foremost it helps to better communicate a specific experience/product/service — like the aforementioned “apps” in the mobile space — towards its users.There are already hundres of products, services and experiences marrying digital and physical and in the next few years we’ll be seeing them grow exponentially and become mainstream as, say, social media related products, services and experiences have become in the last decade.As for me, I don’t like proprietary names (like Phygital) and IoT is limited to some specific applications. For the time being I’ll keep using Exploring a world of products, services and experiences that bridge the gap between the physical and the digital realms.

For any web  mobile application design, user experience (UX) and user interface (UI) design are two extremely important factor to be considered, in-order to get the ball right. A more holistic approach is must for any UX designer to take while optimising for mobile applications and look beyond the standard usability principles of user flow, structure, visibility and feedback.Do your research right and gather information about your user. Web  Mobile applications designers and UX designers should know their audience, what engages them, what are their goals and how your app is going to support them to achieve their goals. User experience design process is the most critical one, which helps the designer to explore the reasons why your user would want to use and buy your product and evaluate how user feels about your application.User experience designer needs to understand the psychology of their users behavior in-order to design the interaction of the app and create an emotional touch with your product.Sketch out the basic ideas and user flow on the white board to begin with. Creating wireframes are the best way to help UI designers understand the UX design aspects of the product flow in terms of different sections of the app, placements of the elements, labelling of the items, interactions, app user flow and content. Wireframes are easy to draw and quick to modify. You can even use paper and pen to sketch them out.Wireframes provide valuable feedback to the UX designers and a quality experience about their users behaviour. It also is very helpful in creating interactive prototype of the product and often contribute in better understanding of the various design patterns and user flow.Visual User Interface Design is one of the most important process after UX. A right user experience design is simple, valuable and accessible. While creating visual designs of the product, designer has to keep the users in mind and nature of the product to make right choice of fonts, colours and graphics for the interface and create the pixel perfect design which is easy, intuitive and pleasing to the eyes.Right implementation of the mixture of UX design and UI design into the web  mobile application development, creates an meaningful, enjoyable and engaging user experience on the product and make your users happy using it.__________17Seven is a digital brand and product design studio based in Mumbai, India. We offer digital strategy coupled with user experience and user interface design for start ups. We help our clients with concept, create and enhance next-generation web  mobile based digital products. 17Seven provides services for brand, web and mobile apps design to a worldwide client base operating from our Mumbai office.____________________An Entrepreneur with a passion of digital designReviews, journeys and analysis about using Indian websites, apps and services. Also thoughts and writings by Indian UXers/Design Thinkers.

I recently visited New Orleans with my friend for a weekend getaway and decided to stay in a private Airbnb room because it was To our surprise and shock, there was The overall stay was great and our host was very friendly and helpful. However, our memory of the trip was tainted by the A recent Gartner survey found that by 2016,Last year, Airbnb started providing a cheaper cleaning service to hosts through Do you remember the care packages with fruits, snacks, energy bars, cookies and blue books you received right before your finals in college? The Having these essentials at every accommodation will provide a The care packages will show that Airbnb cares about the end-to-end experience for guests.Follow me on Twitter: Passionate about Customer Experience, Social Media and Technology

Maps are fun, easy to do and give you a good platform to discuss ideas, problems, changes and innovations. I’ve always been fond of mapping things, and it’s a great tool for exploring experiences, interactions, systems and services. I’ve seen it in action and I’ve seen how effective a tool it is. The question is: Are you doing it enough? And are you getting the most of your maps?A great tip I’ve found is to map everything in a project, not just the user journeys, but the emotions, the information, the mediums, the business models involved… As much as you can find about the things that shape the user experience, both internally and externally, everything is connected. Showing a client how their business model directly and indirectly affects the system, service and in the end the user experience is a powerful thing.Interaction Designer, Service Designer and Ergonomics Engineer

SheSays Denver sat down with Lori Kirkland, VP of Experience Transformation at A: I have a degree in neuroscience. I worked as a professional research assistant at the University of Colorado Health Science Center, looking at the effects of aging, doing brain surgery on animals. I ended up in Customer Experience by accident: I realized that I’m not a typical lab rat who wants to sit by myself, so I decided to get into software. About five years into software, I discovered user interfaces. I became this interface expert a couple companies ago, and then started getting into User Experience and Customer Experience.For a while, I had my own consulting company. I went off on my own to do more strategy than product and software design. For about two and a half years I worked with several companies on research at places like Universal Mind, where I got to do a big local research project that involved 47 countries. I did a lot of “train the trainer” work and helped set up best practices for companies.A: It’s scary but you’ve got to trust yourself, and network like crazy. There’s a lot of freedom to being on your own, and a lot of responsibility.A: I’m the Vice President of Experience Transformation. I help companies understand what their different customer touch points are and their various experiences. I create a unified user experience for companies. It’s funny because the neuroscience comes into play a lot, because neuroscience is a big guessing game really. It’s about finding patterns and seeing how those things work together, and that’s very much the same with customer experience. I’m really using my degree!I’ve started incorporating neuroscience and mindfulness training to help companies really connect with their customers and think of them as people instead of just transactions. I go around to a lot of companies and do quick consulting to get their ideas flowing. I do a lunch and learn called Mindful Experience, and companies really embrace and like the trainings. I think there’s a natural tendency for people to want to relate to people, so neuroscience really excites them and helps them turn the squishy stuff of User Experience into something that can be quantified.A: The business has to start being approached as agile — companies need to be ready to pivot and make changes when needed. Many of my clients’ businesses are set up with a waterfall approach, with long-term deliverables. Switching to an agile approach means quarterly goals and implementations, smaller scales. Some of the biggest companies are paralyzed and unable to think in an agile way, which would allow them to focus on the customer rather than the internal hierarchy of their company.Big corporations are sometimes afraid to let go of those measure-driven metrics and focus instead on the customers. The numbers only mean so much if your customers hate you. We’re starting to see more Customer Experience cheerleaders in big companies but ideally, we’ll really change how people work and embrace the agile and the customer.A: I have a really strong purpose: bringing humanness to the forefront of business. This allows me to make sure that every time I’m in a conversation with a client, I’m always turning it towards the customer. I’ve been very successful in this way, and I’ve become a thought leader in the industry. That’s where I want to make my mark, so that when people are interacting with me or my company they’re thinking about how we’re impacting other people.I think there are peers out there. I’m leading edge in talking about things like digital and experience transformation. There are not currently a lot of people doing it, but there are a few across the country, and we’re all pretty much aware of each other.A: Speak it into the universe. Have a mantra of living mindfully of what you’re doing. Someone told me years ago that if you speak it into the universe, that’s how it’s created. Putting it out there makes it real. Even if it doesn’t go down the path that you wanted it to, it often ends up showing up.You have to trust your intuition; if you feel you’re not at the right company, you have to leave. Even if people are telling you it’s great and other people think it’s great, if it’s not for you, you need to do what’s right for you.The value of talking to real people! When you’re creating anything in the digital space, make sure it’s not just about pretty pictures, but that it’s about understanding who those people are and having real conversations.In Customer Experience, there’s no program yet, so you have to become a talented mimic and a gifted thief. There’s so much tribal knowledge out there, so get to know people who are doing what you’re interested in and see how you can get involved, whether it’s an internship, mentorship, or something else. Customer Experience is currently pretty undefined. There’s no book on how to become a Customer Experience expert, but there are a few of us who can share our experience and knowledge.I’m a big volunteer. I volunteer on a neighborhood association board and on the Denver Gardens board. I believe in the quote, “urban equals creating a pulse of the beat of the city.” I take it on as my job to do a lot of stuff to make Denver a cool place. I’m also a mom of two little girls, one who is two and one who’s eight, so we have a lot of zoo dates and museum dates. I’m an avid gardener; I run a community garden of 95 gardeners in Whittier. It’s one of the biggest in Denver.I always like talking to other consultants who are doing this sort of thing. Anyone who’s running marketing organizations is great to meet because marketers are really starting to understand that it’s not just about technology, it’s about the people.And anyone who’s interested in Customer Experience, or neuroscience, or mindfulness! I can really geek out about those things!SheSays is an international trade organization for women working in digital media, technology and business.

I have been told we are on the cusp of entirely new ways to interface with technology. I have been promised that an up and coming technology will be the next multi-touch. Some say the I propose that that there is an interface method that provides a way to access our technology, without fingers. It’s a technology that is already (mostly) socially acceptable, unlike Google Glass, Oculus VR, or waving your hands in front of a screen. What is this magical interface?Now, I don’t claim to be the first person to think of audio as an interface. In fact I am quite late to the audio party. I bet you can name 10 apps with an audio interfaces off the top of your head. (Siri, Google Search/Now, Nuance/Vlingo, iOS Accessibility, Dragon Dictation, OS X Dictation, etc.) Some call these products failures. They see nothing more than tech demos, or simple tools for niche markets.You may ask, “Hey man, why are you so excited about audio interfaces?”. To that I say, “Look at this list below”All the big players are trying to solve the car problem (Microsoft Sync, iOS in the Car, Google’s Open Automotive Alliance,  CarPlay). Few players are trying to solve problems for the visually impaired, the walkers and runners, the cold people who don’t want to pull their hands out of their pockets, and those who just want to look at their phone less.I am inspired by a feature in the initial release of Windows Phone as seen in the video below:Using this feature, I plug in my headphones or pair with bluetooth headset and texts are read aloud. I can reply without pulling it out of my pocket. The first time this worked flawlessly for me while driving and walking, I was ecstatic. It’s not perfect and has no idea how to recognize the word Chipotle, but that is besides the point. It was effective and it allowed me to text my wife when I otherwise would have to wait until I got home.If I could take a walk and text my wife quick responses without pulling my phone out and squinting at the screen in bright sunlight, thats a major win. If I can provide a way for the visually impaired and those with a long commute to listen to news, email, books, or PDFs on the go, thats something of value. If there was a product that allowed me to know who is trying to contact me and what they want without taking my phone out of my pocket for a quick glance, I would buy it.I am sure there are some services that do similar things, but I haven’t had my problems solved yet, so I plan to scratch my own itch. I think there are great audio and accessibility tools on the desktop, but the tools are lacking on mobile.Let me know if there are great products I am missing or other tools I should be aware of. Hit me up iOS Developer at eHarmony in LA

We all know the setting. You’re driving down the road, windows down (maybe), got Spotify blasting (definitely), and then out of nowhere the absolute sound of [car] death is heard — “Bing!” You look down and staring right at you is an icon that can only but make you feel as if your car is about to ignite in flames. This is referred to as the “Check-Engine Light.”So now what? You’re given a decision to make. Continue on your journey or mitigate potential disaster by heading home. The reassuring monologue of “I’m sure it will be fine — I’ll take it to a garage in the morning” goes through your head, but yet you still glance down at that icon every few moments just waiting for your car to die.Looking at this from a product designer’s perspective, the check-engine light is a poor indication of status because it is without context and the severity of the problem. People tend to fear the worst when they sense something is wrong, so naturally when the car tells you “I’m broken” the driver may have a tendency to feel the problem is much worse than it really is. This generates anxiety and nervousness — not the feeling you want when driving down the highway.I can’t say I know how to solve this problem without completely understanding the diagnostic systems that run in our cars, but I’d like to start by answering the two questions the current indicator design brings up:The status indicator should tell me how serious of an issue I’m dealing with, so that I can decide how I need to react to the situation. When a problem occurs with my car, I need to know if I can keep driving or if the car has experienced some critical failure forcing me to pull over immediately. Don’t leave me fearing the worst by showing a catch-all status for all issues.The current indicator gives no indication as to what triggered the error, but it damn well knows what the problem is! My naive/optimistic side says this was an intentional design decision to hide information from the user that would otherwise be confusing and perhaps useless. My skeptic side says this information is hidden so car owners need to purchase the code reading utility and/or bring the car back to the dealership for maintenance. Just give me enough information to look up or understand what the problem is! Even if I can’t fix whatever problem triggered the error, at least I feel comfort knowing what problem occurred before I bring the vehicle to a garage.Again, I’m not trying to solve this issue from the ground-up, but I think there is marginal improvement to be made to the status quo. Here’s what I’m talking about:User Experience Design

A revolução tecnológica está transformando uma sociedade linear, cartesiana, mecanicista e funcional, inspirada nas máquinas que proporcionaram a Revolução Industrial, em uma sociedade randômica, criativa e orgânica. A conectividade promovida pelo mundo digital faz com que as relações aconteçam em rede, derruba hierarquias e põe o modelo centralizado de liderança em xeque. Os reflexos são sentidos não apenas na horizontalização das funções dentro das empresas, mas até em seus logotipos, que precisam dialogar com consumidores e funcionários empoderados.No passado, as marcas eram representadas por grafismos monolíticos, sólidos e estáticos, que traduziam o peso das organizações. O desafio atual é justamente abrir mão do discurso centralizador de poder para permitir ao consumidor se apropriar dessa representação. O jovem conceito de User Experience (UX) Branding prevê uma marca constituída a partir da experiência das pessoas com ela — e não por si mesma.Aos poucos, as companhias começam a enxergar as oportunidades de abrir esse canal de interação com o público. “Algumas empresas começaram adotando o conceito que eu chamo de marca fluida, em que o logotipo assume formas variadas de acordo com o contexto em que está inserido, como o Nickelodeon e a Oi. Nestes exemplos, no entanto, os consumidores ainda não podiam interagir com a representação. O que vemos agora são marcas abertas, que permitem às pessoas se apropriarem delas. É o caso do logotipo que criamos para o aniversário de 450 anos do Rio”, diz Ricardo Leite, Sócio e Diretor de Criação da Crama Design Estratégico, em entrevista ao Mundo do Marketing.O desafio de desenvolver uma imagem capaz de representar a todos os 6,5 milhões de moradores da cidade conduziu a equipe do escritório carioca até a solução ganhadora do concurso promovido pela prefeitura. Nela, os algarismos que compõem a efeméride que será comemorada em 2015 formam um rosto estilizado. A partir daí, as pessoas são convidadas a intervirem, criando figuras únicas e próprias. A ideia é que a marca possa ser utilizada livremente por todos, inclusive pelas empresas.Essa apropriação já pode ser notada em diferentes pontos da cidade, como na fachada do Shopping Rio Sul, em Botafogo, Zona Sul do Rio, e até nas barracas de artesanato na Feira Hippie, em Ipanema. Bolsas vendidas no comércio de rua passaram a ter, entre suas estampas, a marca comemorativa estilizada com fuxicos e bordados. Já o centro comercial instalou um painel de 600 metros quadrados em que ícones da cidade, como os Arcos da Lapa, o Pão de Açúcar e a Pedra da Gávea, representam o cabelo no rosto formado a partir dos números. O grafismo dará origem também a mobiliários urbanos, como bancos de praça e brinquedos infantis.A forma geométrica do logotipo é fácil de ser replicada, o que potencializa a sua customização e, consequentemente, o engajamento com ele. “Assim como os produtos começaram a ser construídos coletivamente, com o crowdsourcing, a tendência é que as marcas sigam o mesmo caminho. As pessoas querem ter voz, participar. Daí, as redes sociais darem tão certo. Buscamos focar na relação do carioca com a cidade e no jeito dele de ser. Chegamos a uma solução única, porém múltipla; assim como a carioquice, que é singular e plural”, resume Ricardo Leite.A utilização do conceito por trás da marca dos 450 anos do Rio não é único. O Airbnb aplicou o UX Branding ao lançar o Bélo em julho. O novo logo da empresa busca transmitir, por meio desta apropriação, a sensação de pertencimento. A marca da rede de hospedagem ancorada no compartilhamento já estava nas mãos dos usuários desde suas origens, já que são os anfitriões que promovem a experiência prometida pela companhia. O storytelling também é narrado pelos hóspedes do serviço, que relatam no site o que viveram na viagem.A principal recompensa oferecida pelo Airbnb é pessoal e não financeira. “Criamos a página create.airbnb para cada um customizar sua marca, fazendo menção a alguma experiência que tivesse vivido com a empresa. O usuário escolhe formato, cor e textura, além de poder subir uma imagem. Em um mês, tivemos cerca de 20 mil logos diferentes geradas. Clicando nela, descobre-se a história por trás de cada uma delas, o que aponta para peculiaridades das viagens. Elas são únicas. Outros meios de hospedagem podem ter como valor o fato de serem iguais em qualquer parte do mundo, mas em nosso caso o valor está na diversidade”, diz Samuel Soares, Gerente de Marketing do Airbnb, em entrevista ao Mundo do Marketing.A nova marca não ficou apenas no site e no material de divulgação. O Bélo está em chaveiros, camisetas, bolsas e outros produtos, que levados pelos usuários do serviço também proporcionam o sentimento de perecimento a uma comunidade. O item é feito com base no logo criado individualmente por cada um dos anfitriões. A produção é realizada em San Francisco, mas o Brasil — quarto maior mercado da empresa — foi um dos países que mais encomendou a novidade.Sair na frente em uma tendência tem seus desafios, especialmente num conceito que pressupõe significados construídos pelo uso. Os novos logos que seguem o UX Branding podem parecer enigmáticos num primeiro momento, mas esse estranhamento inicial é transformado por meio da comunicação posterior à apresentação da solução. O Airbnb, por exemplo, criou um vídeo em que apresenta o que está por trás das linhas que parecem um coração de cabeça para baixo ou mesmo o “A” do nome da empresa.Mesmo assim, com a cultura do “troll” típica da era digital, o logotipo não passou incólume aos usuários. Muitos completaram o desenho para fazer piada, mas isso faz parte do jogo, quando se chama as pessoas a participarem. “Encaramos com bom-humor e fizemos até um report dos casos mais engraçados. Abrimos espaço para a criatividade. Teve gente que não entendeu, que não gostou, mas, colocando na balança, não podíamos estar mais felizes. O novo logo abriu um leque de oportunidades. Muitas imagens foram compartilhadas no Instagram e em outras redes sociais, com a marca desenhada na areia de uma praia e até em um bolo de aniversário”, conta Samuel Soares.O Myspace já havia inovado em seu logo em 2010, com a palavra “my”, na tipologia Helvetica, e um símbolo delineando um espaço em branco, que pode ser preenchido pelo usuário da forma que lhe convier. A solução pioneira partiu de uma companhia que, na época, já contava com um Vice-Presidente de User Experience.A Ocad University desenvolveu uma solução com a mesma ideia, deixando uma área para intervenção dos funcionários e alunos. Assim, os cartões de trabalho, por exemplo, passaram a ganhar um incentivo à customização. A construção coletiva de marcas, até o momento, alcança, portanto, companhias de educação, de tecnologia e sociais, mas ainda não chegou às corporações mais tradicionais, como as de bens de consumo. A semente está plantada.Este artigo foi originalmente publicado porProfessor da UX Academy e UX Links. Interessado em absolutamente tudo sobre User Experience, Arquitetura da Informação, Usabilidade, Acessibilidade e Agile UX.Artigos e novidades sobre UX Design, Usabilidade, UX Mobile e afins…

When I refer to User Engagement, I am roughly speaking of any metric that measures My job is to make it easy for folks to do whatever they need to get done unencumbered by the software tools they have to use to do it. I can’t make the “thinking” part of their jobs any faster, but I can make the production aspect of it, the clicking on stuff to execute their thought process — the boring, administrative, paperworky part of their work— I can make that really easy and quick. In fact, the more time they spend on our site, the more likely it is that they are not seeing what they want.My job is to ensure that our customers have time to do the important stuff — stuff that might not look like it makes us money, but stuff that will make them appreciate us. I want them to spend less time on our application, and more time growing their business, hugging their families, and breathing in forests.I find that many business folks — product managers, marketers, executives — want users to spend more time using I’d argue that you want them to spend the least amount time on your application that still fulfills an essential need. The business I am a part of — and we are not unique — actually makes money when our customers go off and work on new projects, when they create new work, when they have new ideas. We don’t make money when they are spending time navigating our site.Most things we design is a tool — to be used when needed. This tool is very important in our lives — we designed it — but is certainly not the most important thing in our customer’s lives. They might actually love us more if we are not clingy, if we let them fly free. Let’s not be so needy, let’s just be awesome — and they will come back to us when they need us.In a world where we are so surrounded by technology, and where the time we spend online is invisible to us — I strive to reduce user engagement, and hope that time less wasted online adds up to meaningful experiences in the real world.User Experience Designer. Lifelong Optimist. Avid Reader. Fledgeling Writer. San Franciscan — by way of Thailand and India.

This year was my first WWDC, and it was awesome. The Worldwide Developers Conference is Apple’s week-long convention where they invite developers from around the world to San Francisco and introduce us to shiny new technologies. There’s no shortage of Apple fans among us and it usually takes one product to convert someone to the Dark Side. My dad told me he never saw my mom again after I got her an iPad.I got my WWDC confirmation email a couple months ago and didn’t make much of it at first. This year a random lottery was used to give out around 5,000 spots. Being relatively new to Apple development, my initial reaction to the email was reluctance. After discovering how selective the lottery was, I realized I had a golden ticket. This was an incredible opportunity and I quickly internalized that I had to go. Ticket, hotel, and flights were promptly booked.I arrived in San Francisco and took the BART to Civic Center where I was greeted by a homeless man singing and waving at me. I had heard about the Google Bus attacks in the news, but the sense of socioeconomic inequality really hits while you walk through the city. Anyways, I was famished so I picked up some street food from a friendly Indian man and headed to my hotel. I had to rest up and get ready for the exciting week!Every Monday of WWDC week, Apple gives their coveted “keynote” which serves as an exciting introduction for the conference. I didn’t realize the magnitude of the keynote until I heard that people were lining up The talk was going to be at 10AM and I thought showing up at 7:30AM would be reasonable. I got up Monday morning, put on my Apple swag, and headed over to Moscone Center, the venue for the conference. Apple swag is a synonym for a free, poorly-made, one-of-a-kind black jacket that has zero ventilation.Upon arriving, there were thousands of people already lined up. Maybe 7:30AM wasn’t so reasonable after all. One of my colleagues had given me some advice: “If you make any friends in line, ditch them if they’re too slow once you get in”. I got to the back of the line finally and decided to strike up some conversation with a fellow nerd.“This is madness man,” I said.“No man, this is WWDC!!!!” he responded and subsequently drop-kicked me in the chest.Slightly dazed, I shook it off and apologized for my naivety. Shame on me. I got up and started my two and a half hour wait for the keynote. Luckily, I was able to get a seat in the main room and the keynote delivered. Apple announced a huge line up of new features and capabilities for developers. They even announced a brand new programming language, Swift, to be used in all future development. Who makes their own programming language and forces everyone to use it? Apple does.From a non-developer’s point of view, there weren’t too many consumer goodies to indulge in. There wasn’t a showcase of a new iWatch or a picture of an iPhone 6. I was excited that many of the announcements were geared towards developers, but I really wanted to see someone come out in an iSuit.The keynote left everyone motivated and electrified. It was a great way to start off the conference and the Swift book was downloaded almost 400,000 times in less than a day. I told you people were hype. WWDC had begun.WWDC has three main components: sessions, labs, and networking. Sessions involve Apple engineers presenting new features in a lecture-style format. They give advice, demos, and example code for various topics introduced in the keynote. The main purpose of the sessions is to get everyone thinking about what new technologies to take advantage of and how best to prepare for them.The second part, labs, allow developers to meet with Apple engineers to discuss their own apps and debug any issues they may be having. You can get help with anything ranging from user experience to battery life and performance. It’s equivalent to college office hours.The last component of the conference is casual, laid-back networking. You’re not there to scope out companies or lock down a job offer. You’re there to meet passionate software developers and nerd out with them.I came across some incredible nerds at WWDC and it was While waiting in a queue for one of the sessions, I met a large white man from Texas who was wearing a kilt. Another very interesting fellow I met was a short, gray-haired Australian. He was extremely friendly and started up a conversation with me during lunch with his amazing Australian accent. He didn’t develop Apple applications professionally, but enjoyed dabbling with them on the side. I forgot what kind of app he was working on because it kept crashing when he tried to start it. It was hilarious to see this man start his app, curse in his amazing Australian accent, and try again. Rinse and repeat this three or four times which made for a pretty amusing scene. Things always break at the worst times.Overall, the conference had an eclectic group of attendees. There were hipster-looking developers, jock-looking developers, and… Asians. There were high school students chaperoned by their parents, the ever-so-rare female, and many stereotypical bearded fat men that we should recognize from South Park.Looking past the crappy food they fed for us for five straight days, the main message of the conference was clear. If we look past how much money the company makes, everyone acknowledges that Apple has changed the world. As quoted from every movie ever: “With great power comes great responsibility”. Apple is powerful, rich, and Steve Jobs was most definitely a jerk. Nevertheless, the company carries this responsibility well. If you ever buy an Apple product or develop with an Apple SDK, you’ll know what I mean.The conference was awesome and it lived up to my expectations. I came out overwhelmed with new technology and filled with that tingling motivational high. It was a special week, and I’m glad I had the privilege to attend WWDC 2014.Engineer, Bboy, Wildcard

Many times designers attempting to conceptually redesign an interface system do so under the most ideal of circumstances: the perfect monitor resolution, re-positioned hardware controls, perfect lighting and angles, type settings that won’t fit translations, and ideal construction materials are a few things that come to mind. This is rarely feasible when approaching a real world redesign where the designer often must “make do”, working around heavy pre-existing constraints.That was the idea behind this visual redesign exercise of a certain drive-through car wash that I frequent: taking areal world example of something where both the visuals and user experience were less than ideal and turning them into a somewhat coherent system by only altering the surrounding visuals; not the hardware placement, materials used, signage warping, or inevitable grime build-up. Let’s take a look at the offender.Boring subject matter? Perhaps. Excellent design exercise? You know it! Let’s jump in by locating the elements that need fixing and how we might be able to approach solutions.Starting with the most glaring of offenders and the primary piece we can’t touch, We’ll need a way to visually group all of the payment methods together. Having them scattered about is going to make it difficult, but if we can separate them out from the rest of the objects with a frame or color block, it may work (see image). Next, aside from reading the directions, choosing your wash type is your primary action. We’ll need to make sure they are easy to find and functionally understandable. We’ll also do our best to make that bulbous blue plug blend in better. Lastly, we’ll call attach a title and frame to the LED screen so the user will know why they should be paying attention to it when the time comes.Next we’ll approach the visual design, something we So gathering all of the information together, let’s see what we can do to clean things up a bit.The first thing I did was decide where the users eye should be drawn to first. From my experience, most all car washes function slightly different from one another, so I wanted to make sure the first thing the user sees are the instructions. Using a larger font size, simpler language, and shorter sentences makes sure (hopes?) the user will read through and fully understand them. Using the instructions’ white background box as a guide directs the users eye towards the side of the panel with the wash selection buttons, naturally prodding them to the next step in the process.A large green color splash, as mentioned above, wrangles all the payment methods together, making them a bit easier to visually parse out from the rest of the panel. I chose blue for the bottom half because it worked well with the green but also slightly hid the blue hardware plug on the bottom right (plus blue == water.)Credit card information was all quarantined to the actual credit card slot area, and all the extra room for activities in the center can be used as a visual resting point, giving a bit of breath to the entire piece. One thing I will admit I did like in the original is using the two empty wash categories as a “Thank You” placement, so I keep that. Lastly, I toned down the bottom white signage type style.There you have it. For only a few dollars of printing cost, this signage and associated brand can be revitalized, made much simpler to use and thus keep it’s customers happier and moving through the line quicker. Granted the hardware designer of this machine should be drawn and quartered, but such is the life of a designer.Sr. UX Designer at Carbine Studios.

User stories are a foundational piece of agile software development and product development. They lay out the product’s requirements, but also allow each requirement to have a back story. Using the standard story format of “As a — — , I want — — , so that — — — -” is a starting point, but answering this alone does not ensure a requirement will be understood and implemented as desired. A user story should always be an A story can be written that satisfies the “standard format” and still provide nothing to the development team. “By providing more details, the request becomes much easier to understand. For instance, “A request of “The last part of a user story is The title of our user story is perfected. Let’s shift focus and lay out what the user experience will be and how they are using the product. For our example story, ““Given that I am an employee but do NOT have access to XYZ Product,and I tap on the blue ‘login’ button on the top right of the header,and I enter my employee username,and I enter my password,then I should see an error displayed under the login button with ‘Access Restricted’”.“Given that I am an employee and have access to XYZ Product,and I tap on the blue ‘login’ button on the top right of the header,and I enter employee username,and I enter a bad password,then I should see an error displayed under the login button with ‘Invalid Username or Password’”.“Given that I am an employee and have access to XYZ Product,and I enter my employee username,and I enter my password,and I click “Login”then I should be directed to the monthly reports data.”Mapping out unsuccessful paths allows the product owner to describe how the application should behave if errors are encountered or the user does not interact with the application as desired. A product owner’s goal is to have the best possible experience for the user. By providing this information to the development team, expectations can properly be set for desired and undesired behavior.When a user story becomes too large and is no longer self-contained, it is time to break it up into multiple stories. It may seem logical to have a story fulfill every action that a user can take, but this becomes cumbersome to develop and test. For example, imagine you are designing a login page for your application. The functionality needed includes logging in with a username and password and the ability to reset your password. These two features are not dependent on each other. Instead, create an “epic” containing all stories related to a the login page, and create two stories — one for the login and another for the password reset. Smaller stories are more manageable and risk decreases with conciseness and self-containment.Writing great user stories takes effort but will pay off quickly. User stories will fully document a product for the product owner. Developers, testers, and stakeholders alike will have requirements clearly laid out and understandable when the user story has adequate details and information. Keeping the story self-contained will ensure that the story is not too large will allow better planning and easier implementation while keeping complexity and unknowns to a minimum.Product manager 

Usability testing allows you to identify any usability issues, see what users actually do with your product (rather than what they say they do) and determine the participant’s satisfaction with the product experience. The credibility of your results is determined in part by the effectiveness of your tasks. If your tasks are not realistic participants will just go through the motions and won’t fully engage in your test.So what makes a good task?The best way to structure your tasks for participant is to put them into a situation that will best simulate their real life usage context. When people use products and websites in the real world, they do not get explicit step-by-step instructions. Instead, they rely on their past experience and the intuitiveness of the experience to guide them through.Start by outlining the scenario in which you want your participant to place themselves. This provides them with a purpose and a goal for using the application — as if they were using it in real life.For example:“You are in the process of purchasing a new car, and you want to compare insurance rates from different providers. Your friend suggested you check out CarInsurance.com because they got a good rate from them.”This will make your task relatable and encourage an action, without giving away how the interface should be used.The important thing to remember is that you are testing your product’s ability to intuitively guide the participant through a task, not your participant’s ability to follow instructions.To get an objective understanding of how well your experience performs, it is best to probe your participant with questions as opposed to guiding them with instructions.For example:If the primary job for your homepage is to register new users…This will better help you understand whether they can complete your intended task, and if they cannot, why that is.You will yield more accurate results by getting your participant to show you how they would realistically use the product to accomplish the set goal.A beginners guide to running User Research for design teams.Short, actionable advice to help your design team get started running user research today.

Here’s the deal:I’ll be the first to tell you that UX is nothing about “paint pretty pictures”.It’s a It’s a very important part in defining the business strategy and it doesn’t end with the User Interface design, it’s also about testing with people, supporting development, making ongoing adjustments even after the launch.So, how can you develop the best Product User Experience Strategy?There are six different steps in the UX process, in this article you will learn three of those:Here you need to understand the context for the product, identify the market and the stakeholders for your new product development.Understand the company strategy is important from the outset because it articulates the brand, the vision and the guiding principles of the organisation. The strategy underpinning a UX project will shape the goals of the project:One of the hardest things in a Product UX is not the work itself, but a good Ideas are only the basic of a design. Be sure to critical considerate the qualities and drawbacks of the idea. The hardest part is to develop an idea into a design. The best way to create your concept is collecting feedbacks from different sources, this includes all those people who have an interest in the success or failure of the product.Be careful…People don’t make purely rational decisions based on careful analysis of cost, sometimes decisions are driven more by our emotions than logical and conscious thinking. But it’s not a bad news at all: our irrationality is predictable. As a good UX designer, you need to partner effectively with product owners, engineers, executives and other key stakeholders, and learn about human decision going beyond usability to create products that effectively influence our behaviour.The commons User Experience (UX) activities to do in this step are:The Research step is probably the most variable between projects. If projects are big, the research activity will be very complex, also if the small startup websites may skip some of these and keep just some informal interviews and a survey. For many UX Designers, this phase is key to creating a good user experience, however it’s also the most skipped step because it’s not fit in the “Lean UX” approach.At this stage, you are ready to identify the User Experience This is my favourite part, in this step you have already collected rich descriptions from the step one. Then move on to create the Be careful… this is a very important milestone. Here your view of what using the product has to be like “years” or so in the This step is more The Production phase is when the high-fidelity design is ready and a version of the product is validated with stakeholders and end-users. The role of the UX Designer shifts from creating and validating ideas to collaborating with developers to create framework and sample version.Common User Experience (UX) activities during this step include:As mentioned above, this process is In this step you find out how your product was actually used in practice.You want to learn about your design’s problems during the usability test, Timing is critical. Watch and listen carefully. Be alert, not only to the problems participants are having, but to the likely causes of those problems.Remember three things:Use the Common User Experience (UX) activities during this step include:Free Bonus Pack on UX Designer. Mobile Specialist. Computer Engineer.

What they didn´t imagine is that I secretly decided that it would be a healthy cake. So I replaced all ingredients and used wonderful healthy ingredients like whole wheat flour, rolled oats, linseed, quinoa, chia seeds and 100% cocoa powder. I thought that no one would notice the changes… I mean, 100% cocoa powder is almost the same as chocolate, right?When the cake was ready, I was delighted to see how beautiful it looked: the cake had risen to a perfect height and it didn´t shrink. There was a nice brownish color. It was crispy around the edges and looked soft on the inside.However, the first thing I noticed was that it didn´t have that wonderful chocolate cake smell. I really missed the freshly-baked aroma. But that was just a detail that no one else would notice.The girls were really excited to taste it!The texture of the cake was really strange and dry, the cocoa powder made it bitter and it had no taste of chocolate at all. The linseed pieces were too hard and the chia seeds tasted funny.Nobody even wanted to finish the piece that was on the plate.The cake grade was a 3 out of 10, and I was very disappointed.As I didn’t want to bin the cake, it occurred to me that a good chocolate frosting would fix the problem. Then, with French hazelnut oil, melted chocolate, sugar and cream, I made the perfect icing. I covered the cake with a generous amount of frosting, and it looked even more attractive.It was time to taste it again. The frosting really helped, because it was a pretty good one, but the cake was still not good. It was a bad cake with a good frosting. The grade went from a 3 to a 4.Yet I didn´t give in. This time I decided to add a nice blackberry jelly as a filling. It would definitely increase the grade! So it took me some time to carefully cut the cake in half, spread the jelly over each half and put it back together.The cake was even more beautiful, it looked like the kind of cake that Nigella would do.Time to taste it. Third time is a charm, right?But that beautiful cake was a grade 5.Then I realized that even if I added cherries, nutella or even gold dust, the cake would still be bad. The idea that I had sold the kids was the idea of a chocolate cake. So it just had to look like a chocolate cake, feel like a chocolate cake, smell and taste like one, and it would do the trick.But I did something else, I did a bad cake and tried to “gourmetize” it.If I had just accepted that the cake was not good at all, it would have been easier. I would not have lost time and money with things that would just add frills to what should be good — in its essence. My mistake.And now on, when dealing with projects, I will remember these chocolate cake experience facts:À procura do nada mais a ser removido.

I’ve been running a FB Group called Startup Colombia for approx. 3 years now and have seen it grow to over 5000 members and become the hub for hiring, bizdev deals, getting you startup on the news, and general knowledge about the startup community in Colombia.The key to keeping it valuable is maintaining the content relevant and interesting, which means having clear posting guidelines accompanied by deleting a ton of spam, and only accepting relevant users (it’s a closed group). The second of which sucks.With some 10 to 50 new users applying per day, figuring out who is a spammer and who is legitimately interested in participating is a slow and cumbersome process, which FB should really improve to make it easier for admins to manage groups and keep the content quality higher, thus driving more people to sign-in to FB to check the content.In this post I lay out what I consider the main problems and some possible solutions in the hope that somebody at FB HQ sees this post.There are currently 2 ways of accepting or ignoring, on a one by one basis or in batch, and blocking can only be done by user.To accept users on a one-by-one basis, you get 3 options, approve, ignore or block, and see the name of the person, how long ago they joined FB and the number of Groups they are in.For batch you get 2 buttons, Approve All or Ignore All, which for any medium or large sized group are useless if you really want to keep users relevant.I’ve figured out that there are some general characteristics about spammers and fake profiles, so I’ll explain them first.So in general terms, someone who has a private profile and is named Dhara Devi, has something like a 99% chance of being a spammer and will probably get banned by me. If im a little bit unsure I will just ignore them and maybe if they reapply I will examine it further.Legitimate users also have things in common, which again are are a pretty good guideline for figuring out if a user is real.When I accept users, I try to do it in batch and late at night, since immediately after thy are accepted most will instantly start posting (bots?) and I will then be able to spot those who got through and can then delete the posts and block them.My larger point is that FB Groups is an important product that adds real value to a real world community (most of which probably wouldn’t use FB much if it werent for this group), and that FB has enough information to be able to better spot spammers and help admins do their jobs. So here are my 2 cents.The current buttons for accepting users are also painfully slow and the general interface feels clunky (I’m on a 200mbps dedicated connection which is probably one of the best you can find in Latin America and use a MB Air). Get that React magic to work!FB Groups is a valuable product and it has some great communities and users, but if FB doesn’t really strive to improve it, eventually many communities will head towards other solutions, which I’m sure a lot of other startups are figuring out how to solve.Unicorns are just skinny rhinos

Simple analogies for understanding the difference between UX and UI.What’s the difference between UX (user experience) and UI (user interface)? This handy graphic from High-tech redneck. Director of Content  Social Media 

Any gap in your team’s knowledge about the product you’re building should be a catalyst for user research — whether that is questions about the problems your users have, or assumptions you’ve made about the right way to approach the solution. These questions and assumptions will form the basis for your learning objectives.Identifying questions and assumptions should be a continuous task that all team members do throughout the project. Create an accessible place for all your team members to collect these as they think of them — a Google Doc, a specific Git issue tag, a project in Asana or list in Trello. Remind your team regularly to make note of these. The more questions and assumptions that are validated with your users, the more likely you are building something valuable for them.When you begin planning your user research, take the list of assumptions and questions you have collected and identify the high-level themes that appear. Write down these themes as your learning objectives.For example:Focus on 3 or 4 high-level learning objectives — any more than that and you are probably trying to do too much in a single session. Each learning objective will be representative of a dozen questions in your actual session, that all ladder up to the general theme it describes.While learning objectives should be high-level, they should be specific enough that you can provide a concise answer for them upon when you are done your research project.For people not directly involved in the research, they provide a quick overview of what the purpose for the research was, and give you a means to quickly convey what was learned.A beginners guide to running User Research for design teams.Short, actionable advice to help your design team get started running user research today.

For me, Richard and Sandy — putting learners at center of design — their user experience not ours is key. Last week over 250 teacher leaders in ACPS explored how to design for learners and learning and not plan for teaching. We started with a big design challenge of “how might we dare to change the world?” The design thinking that ensued didn’t neglect the small learning bytes necessary to build agency in young people as young as 4–5 but the big thinking that ensued exponentially expanded the cultural, emotional and cognitive bandwidth of how we considered unleashing learning potential. I believe we need to free teachers to design, create, engineer, build, and make as Edentrepreneurs and imagineers rather than spoon feed our teachers in workshops face to face or online what others are selling whether it’s test prep or curricula in a box. We can’t change compliance-driven education of the last century unless we let loose our quiet problem solvers and solution finders in our schools to design. It’s a process and not something that just happens but it is possible.Watch “Most Likely to Succeed” — passion-based teaching and learning at its best.Thanks for stimulating my thinking!as an educator Im for 21st c community learning spaces for all kinds of learners, both adults and young people; comments reflect my personal point of view.

This fall marks the fourth season of the VFL (Viget Football League), where our company league continues its storied fantasy football tradition. Since we’re digital creators and perfectionists ourselves, we find ourselves each year wishing for better software, better experiences, and better tools to research, draft, and manage our fantasy football teams. Year in and year out, we spar about ways to optimize the experience. These ideas end up long forgotten in chats, forums or water cooler talk.But this year is different. This year, we’re making those fantasies a reality.A few of our league veterans got together in August to outline some challenges and opportunities found in the many interfaces and experiences of fantasy sports, and discussed how they could be improved.We examined the complete fantasy football experience, from the draft to the postseason, outlining issues, ideas and design concepts. In this article, we’ve detailed how we’d rework the draft experience. For this and our full user experience experiment read on Quite possibly the most important experience of the fantasy season lies in the Draft — the one time of the year where you have the simultaneous attention of all team members, if only virtually. At Viget we gather 14 deep in a Google Hangout, sharing some post-work beer and pizza on the eve of the NFL season.In our ideal world, the draft takes full advantage of the variety of devices available to league members. Projectors and HDTVs create a more compelling and celebratory view of every pick, while laptops and mobile devices offer team managers the real-time data they need.Every player comes to the draft with unique strategies and methods — paper print outs, pivoting spreadsheets, links on links on links. We multitask on phones, tablets and laptops, and some commissioners project an additional screen to benefit league members.Introducing a dedicated “spectator” view could unlock the potential of having discrete actions and interfaces for your devices. This allows users to research on their laptop while viewing the draft on the TV, then eventually make a selection from their phone — giving users the power to set up the right combination for their needs.While making picks is the primary purpose of the draft, the participants spend the majority of their time as a spectator between picks. We’ve all been there. After attempting to follow along, your friend struggles to find a player, only to be scolded by league members: “he went last round — pay attention!”Allowing for an option or view to shift the focus could provide users with a better handle on the full landscape of the draft, including which players have been taken. It could even be a valuable content play for fantasy sports providers, allowing them to broadcast the drafts of “celebrity leagues” virtually.While we appreciate an emphasis on efficiency when it comes to virtual drafting (256 players takes a while!), the current experience is more utilitarian and lackluster than we’d like — at least for the first few rounds. With a “Pick, move on, Pick, move on” feel, we tend to verbally announce our picks prior to selection to elicit reaction and to take our moment in the spotlight after a long round’s wait.Without that declaration, the software quickly moves to the next team on the clock and you’re attempting to track the pick in various feeds throughout the UI. We crave an interface that takes a moment to celebrate each pick, and one that would make you and your friends feel pretty important.As many fantasy footballers embark on their fantasy drafts this week, many will experience the thrill of the draft, and no doubt, some of these same frustrations. Why settle for for the current experience or hold out hope for future software updates when there are so many opportunities for improvement? The draft, and frankly all of fantasy football, could stand to be improved.We design / build / market web sites / products / ideas for clients like Ideas from the people at Viget

The internet is a landfill of inspirational quotes and Twitter fodder about creating a good user-experience — mainly from proven masters in the field such as Don Norman, Steve Jobs, Dieter Rams and Jonathan Ive. However, sometimes you find inspiration in unlikely areas, so I thought I’d jot down a small list of quotes that continue to be useful for me when working on projects involving technology and humans.I read this in an Arthur C Clarke book, but I think he based it on an original quote by Voltaire. While Mr Clarke was referring specifically to how technological products should be developed, it’s obviously applicable to UX projects. The classic case of wanting to load features into a project can sound like a good idea as people want features right? Wrong, people want something in front of them now, not something that’s delayed because its undergoing improvements before its even launched.This could explain why we’re still waiting for jetpacks. The technology might be available now, but after the initial fun of flying around would they really be adopted by the masses? Ok, you may not be with me on that one, but witness the beautiful synchrony of human and technology in ‘Her’ and you’ll see that designing a great experience doesn’t mean throwing out the old, it means creating something that invisibly helps people achieve their goals and get on with their life ­– even people who want to get it on with their operating system.I prefer this over other quotes extolling the virtues of keeping things simple as I feel the second part of the sentence is important for UX. People still need to be able to achieve their goals, so it’s not just a case of taking things away to create an ‘empty’ or ‘clean’ design aesthetic. Rather, what are the bloated and possibly internally driven features that don’t help the user? It strengthens the need for creating a good set of jobs to be done, personas or user journeys from which you can make decisions on what to leave out.From the master of chasing bikini-clad women around trees comes this gem of a quote. It reminds me to look at areas of a project that may not be screaming for attention, but could actually be the secret of creating a better journey for the customer.Leaving my favourite for last. It encapsulates so much of how I feel about what I do. I don’t start thinking about user-experience at nine o clock and stop at six, I think about it constantly, wherever I am. Not necessarily about my projects, but about why tap designers have a penchant for hiding the information about how to get hot and cold water out; why washing machine controls have so many options when most people use the same setting their entire life; why town planners don’t think about where people will actually walk when designing walkways and even why most remote controls have a little drawer of hidden buttons that nobody knows what they do. It may drive my girlfriend mad, but my attitude of questioning everything is something I do as a person — it just happens to help with my work too. Well, most of the time.I’m sure there are lots of other good quotes out there from various sources, but these resonate for me. I’d love to hear others that create a stirring in your UX loins.We’re a user experience design and consulting agency.

If you don’t work in a large design firm or in a big company, there is a good chance that you probably work as a UX team of one. You are probably the lone UX person who has to handle the vast array of UX tasks that are too much for any one person to even have true knowledge of and definitely too much for one person to do well. I know I am.I picked up The book is pretty packed with helpful tips but here is the big take away: when you are a team of one, there is never enough time, there is always more work you can do, and the work is never really complete.The first half of the book is a pretty good introduction to UX, but I found myself skimming around and looking for the meat of the book. The second half is where the good parts come to play. Buley does a great job of breaking down the different design phases (Planning, Researching, Designing, Testing, and Evangelism) and the different tools that can be used at each stage. She gives a short synopsis, a time range, and what the outcome should be. She emphasises output because as a team of one having people review your output is the best way to get buy in and collaboration. Brilliant.The best part of the book was the advice at the end of each of those chapters. She has a short summary that says, “If you can only do one of these, do X”. I think that ending is great for someone who isn’t sure how to move forward, is new to the field, or just feels overwhelmed with the daunting amount of work it takes to do good UX.Now for the not-so-good news: being a team of one is never going to be easy. Buley ends her treatise with a good pep talk that chooses to inspire the reader rather than leave you feeling helpless.Ultimately, she is right. The longer I work in UX, the more constrained I become. I get split across projects and take on more leadership roles because I have that expertise. But that doesn’t mean that my work has to suffer. What it means is that as a team of one I have to be that much more careful in how I spend my time. I have to evaluate what are resources are available, what are problems need solving, and what are the highest priorities. Making time for that kind of evaluation is key to really being a great team of one and this book does a great job of showing you how to do that.What is your advice for being a team of one and how do you work to make sure you stay effective?People know us. We are important. We have many UX books and our homes smell of coffee and usability studies.

It doesn’t matter what you do or how you think something should work.You could be a social media manager, business owner, CMO of the Fortune 100, street performer or an aspiring actress.You might make millions or scraping by with a business in a desolate city or neighborhood.You might think your demo button should be blue. You might assume people hate email marketing.Your title doesn’t matter. Your past job description is irrelevant. The work you completed yesterday is all but distant memory.In this given moment, the only thing that makes you relevant is the experience others are having with you and/or around you.What should you be thinking about when forming your user experience? The subject is HUGE but I thought I would tackle a few thoughts around customer/user experience.Simplicity and ease of use.This is a big one for me. This includes the entire user experience across every digital platform. Everything from the iPhone to the kiosk at the airport, every single digital interface needs to be easy to use and operate. Do I know how to print the ticket? Should I be clicking the content form? Where is the unsubscribe button in your email newsletter? The way people use your technology is extremely important to the health of your business.The UI of YOU also matters but is a little weird. We are borderline Terminator meets Transendence but it still applies. Your clothing, body language and speech are all part of your user interface. You might think the mohawk and bright blue short-shorts are trendy but not when you are sitting in a sales call with a room full of bankers. You might THINK your user interface is cool and hip but if your users hate it. They will hate you.You are the subject matter expert.Online communication is everything related to the customer experience. Are you answering your contact form? Are you responding to blog comments, Tweets and LinkedIn posts?People look to you as the subject matter expert. You might be great at baking cupcakes or can build a content team from the ground up. Your voice matters to your user experience. It matters to your brand. Are you the expert? Do you sound like the expert? Do you act like the expert?This is a huge category but speaks to the entire offline environment for a brand or person. How do you act when you meet someone? How do you shake their hand? Do you look homeless? How do your employees respond to questions? Is your receptionist friendly at the front door? Is it easy to find your product in your store? Does your point of sales system take credit cards? Do you only take cash?I know too many questions… but it is just the beginning.I can’t tell you how many times I’ve walked into a retail store where the employees pretend you don’t exist. Their phones are WAY more important than selling the product/service that employs them.Experiences shape everything. If you are not completely obsessed with your user experience you will become irrelevant.Your user will demand it.Head of Marketing Strategy at 

There are four quadrants of user research vital to understand for any organization, team, and individual. This knowledge, when used as a framework, enables organizations to evaluate their structure and processes, and thereby optimize product creation for the people that they serve.Gather what people Gather what people Gather what people Gather what people Within these quadrants are Without There is huge opportunity here to reduce risk, save costs, and create better products. All it takes is this fundamental knowledge, the application of this knowledge, and a curiosity that begins to ask questions.Natural, high-level questions include:To answer this, do a fascinating exercise.Draw the user research quadrants chart. For each silo of your organization, circle areas of the research quadrants that the silo is currently responsible for. Why is this helpful? Let’s look at an example.Organizations that dismiss the value of early product behavioral research tend to collect far too much attitude-based evidence. They fall into a trap of “we know best”.Organizations that don’t have perspective brought by user experience teams tend to isolate designers from the people they are designing for. They fall into a trap of “design is just a pretty button”.Organizations that ball-and-chain developers to billable hours, or other inhuman business models, tend to isolate developers from the people they are building for. They fall into a trap of “developers are just code-churning monkeys with burn-up charts”.Organizations that do not show early prototypes, prototypes that do not have polish, or those that look like less-than-marketing material, tend to forego any behavioral-based research. They fall into a trap of “we fear our customers if we show them anything except a shiny box with a bow”.Some organizations fall into all four of these traps. They look like this:Business units (1), sales teams (2), marketing (3), and customer service (4) all primarily collect attitude-based evidence. They collect what people think: I love This exercise makes it painfully obvious the direction for strategic organizational improvement of talent.Would you build an entire product solely based on what people think, as opposed to what they habitually do day after day? Would you invest millions of your organization’s dollars into a product without testing your early prototypes in front of people for critical behavioral research evidence?Would you do this when you know that The point of this knowledge is to identify where your organization is at currently with its user research practices. It helps you find the gaps in your organization. Maybe you realize you have no idea what marketing does. Go ask them. Explain the user research quadrants. Tell them to draw a circle for what they do. Complete the story of your own organization’s research methods.Then take that story to your organization’s leadership. Or, at least, your boss.Be straightforward with them. Tell them you heard of this user research and that you wanted to see how you can help the organization better connect with customers and build products that matter. Make it a discussion, not a presentation. Appease their curiosity, if they have it. If they’re intelligent, they’ll listen and act immediately. If they’re dumb, Understanding these four quadrants, their relationship to your organization, your product teams, your colleagues, and yourself, is fundamental knowledge for thriving products and the organizations that make them. This framework is here to be used by individuals seeking to conduct research and organizations seeking to improve organizational structure to facilitate the creation of better products for the people that they serve.Self-inflicted musings of a designer, dreamer, UX Architect 

Intelligent marketing always plays a part in a company’s performance, of course, but without product and price being right image will only get a firm so far.However, for companies who wish to remain at the vanguard of their industry the focus needs to shift to ‘user experience’. This ‘new’ discipline is set to become a critical topic for the business world.Worryingly, it seems that a skills shortage in this area looms on the horizon. The lack of formally educated ‘experience designers’ who have the ability to excel in user experience principles needs to be addressed.Until relatively recently, websites were the primary method of digital interaction between consumers and businesses and this was usually done via a personal computer. However, the explosion in technological development in the past decade means that computers now lag behind smartphones and tablets as people’s prime method of interaction with a brand.The rise of wearable tech, such as Google Glass or Apple’s smartwatch, is already threatening to upend this new order. This constant shift to newer formats is one of the key factors as to why businesses need to seriously focus on UX and how they plan their customer journeys.Great UX is important because it brings customer loyalty. Uber did not make the global inroads it has to date by simply being cheaper than traditional taxi firms. It took off because the interface it designed was so smooth, so intuitive and so informative that people don’t want to go back to ‘old fashioned’ methods.Similarly, Apple’s iPhones almost never lead the market in hardware terms. There are always phones with more memory, sharper screens or a better camera resolution. But Apple leads on experience. The navigation of the phone’s menu, the connectability of devices and the beauty in the design has made Apple one of the world’s most powerful corporations.People do not distinguish between sectors either. If booking a cab is such a smooth experience, then why isn’t booking a dry cleaner or a plumber? Companies cannot afford for a gap to develop between what their customers expect and what they can offer when it comes to UX.But what should cause alarm bells to ring for business leaders is that presently there exists a skills gap to fill these needs. Qualitative research by Hyper Island of industry professionals reveals that the largest concern is the lack of available talent and skills.A persistent anxiety amongst the design community is that this shortfall is opening a chasm between what customers are expecting and what businesses can deliver. Research suggests this is costing the retail industry alone two to three billion pounds annually.With such a battle for talent looming on the horizon businesses that don’t start adjusting their strategy to plan for this will risk being left without the quality staff needed to succeed. Customer experience will become the main selling point of a business, not product or price. So getting the right staff on board is paramount.It is those versed in experience design who will have their finger on the pulse of industry developments and trends and their voice needs to be heard at the decision making table. Firms who most efficiently tap into the intelligence and knowledge of their experience designers will have a major competitive advantage.Hiring is the first step, but making sure staff are continually exposed to new ideas, practices and educational opportunities is another cornerstone of a good design strategy.As technology evolves so rapidly it is critical businesses create an environment of lifelong learning for their teams to ensure they remain relevant and operating (or ideally setting) industry best practice.2015 must be the year in which those businesses that aren’t already doing so begin to think about every smartphone swipe, every Google Glass blink and every mouse click. UX needs to be a company’s differentiator.The talent pool available to help a business succeed at this though is worryingly small. The mantra of ‘he who hesitates is lost’ has never been more relevant.CEO, Hyper Island. Former Director of Program Production at SVT.

I’m Sam, co-founder of a start-up based in San Francisco. I’m VP product in charge of developing our new kick-ass B2C app.It’s no surprise that we use the ‘The fundamental activity of a startup is This way of thinking seems obvious. However, sadly, it’s not what we did in the past two years. Our clients (the guys with the checkbook) came in the way, twisting our product with their requirements and made us shifting priorities.It was easy money and exciting stuff to develop, but at the end of the day, This time, we’ll do it right. What if your own team doesn’t use your product? It means that your product sucks. This is why I think the first version (usually called a Proof Of Concept — or POC) shouldn’t go out of your office. Leverage your whole team. Everybody should have fun using it. Don’t take “I’m not the right target” for a valid answer. Be realistic: POCs are prototypes. Don’t bother using the top-notch technologies. You will have 100 testers at most. Any crappy database will do the job. Choose a framework that you are confortable with. And just … code!Keep in mind that prototypes are only living to gather feedback. If you can see the WOW effect on your user face, that’s a big win, but generally, people use apps in their intimity. You want to make sure to have access to some key analytics to really understand their usages.Speak with your users, but don’t take what they say for granted. There can be a huge difference in between their real usages and what they tell you.I love to watch users using my product. It’s even better if they don’t know that I am watching them. To me, it is one of the best feedback you can gather.Usually, users are super excited by testing new stuff. Don’t break this momentum. Fix things quick and release often (every days for minor fixes, every 2 weeks for major versions). Be transparent on your daily roadmap.Testing your app with few users doesn’t prevent you to build your community of beta testers in parallel. Once you feel confortable with the product, you’ll be ready to broaden your circle. I hear too often that the User Interface (UI) of a prototype can be crappy because that’s not the point. That’s wrong! Testing the UI is part of the job. Same with the content. A prototype is not here just to test the core mechanic. Last but not least, spend time on the If you are flying under the radar, you’ll never launch into orbit

I work on the Online Revenue Operations team, which essentially seeks to enhance the life cycle of a Dropbox for Business user. Within this team, I work in User Operations to provide support for our Dropbox for Business admins. Beyond reactive support, my team also detects underlying patterns of recurring issues while collaborating with our product and engineering teams to protect the user experience.Towards the end of school I became interested in user experience and human-centered design and was eager to gain the grassroots experience that comes with working directly with users. I knew at Dropbox I would be able to learn about our suite of products in such depth that I could communicate with a computer newbie just as effectively as with a software engineer. So when I had the opportunity to work on issues affecting such a diverse user base with brilliant team members, it was a pretty easy decision.What, in your view, is unique about doing user operations within Dropbox?There are very few people in the company that have the opportunity to speak directly with our users on a daily basis and can articulate what makes them delighted or frustrated. Empathizing with the people who use Dropbox is highly valued in User Ops, and it’s important that my team reverberates our users’ sentiments throughout the company. In fact, my teammates and I often invite other Dropboxers to shadow us in order to translate feedback into product development plans.When I was 16, I had a really unique opportunity to spend a year living in Washington D.C. as a Congressional Page for the House of Representatives. In the mornings I would go to class in the attic of the Library of Congress and in the afternoons I worked in the Members Only cloakroom on the gallery floor. My main responsibility was to relay messages between Members on the floor of the gallery and their Chief of Staff, which meant learning the names, faces, and districts of roughly two hundred Members. I was also in charge of making sure that all of the present Members had properly registered their votes throughout the day (which entailed waking up a few members on long nights of voting) and raising flags over the Capitol.I was lucky enough to be on the floor when the House passed the $819B stimulus bill in 2009, to be present when then-Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Gordon Brown made an address to the 111th session of Congress, to find a crypt while wandering around the Capitol, to attend a State of the Union, and to witness the inauguration of President Obama in 2009.Unfortunately, in 2011 the House closed the Page program but I was fortunate enough to be one of the last classes of this one hundred and seventy five year tradition.This is a tough one, I have several. It’s got to be a tie between winning the unofficial Halloween costume award with my team by dressing up as our lead, and celebrating the Austin office’s first birthday.Dropbox’s rapid international growth has really interesting implications on how we plan to support our diverse user base. I was recently conducting user interviews, and you would be surprised how differently people around the world interpret what it means to “share a file.” Being able to not only detect but also mitigate these potential sources of confusion brings up some interesting challenges in how we communicate and troubleshoot future problems.Last week I successfully lassoed three stationary plastic bulls during our Dropbox family farm outing, so apparently I was meant for the rodeo. I guess that’s something I didn’t even know about myself.Meet the people growing the Dropbox business around the world. Join us. dropbox.com/jobs

Years ago, when I figured out“I wanna do UX… like, for life!”everything was still in the blur, except one thing that I clearly knew right from the start: I am not a designer and that is not what I want to be. And this was also the biggest challenge coming my way because of 2 main reasons;– user experience is tightly correlated with design– there was little demand for a UX-er without design skills.I accepted this challenge and slowly but surely I was able to prove both to myself and to people I work with that User Experience is not just about design, that UX research can be a source of invaluable user data for any project!So, what I am trying to say with this sentimental little pre-story, is that I want to share this idea with peers. I want to emphasize the importance and the great value of user experience research as a separate thing and help others like me get started as UX-ers.And to do so, I have decided to create a training course on User Experience Research Fundamentals.I have never done anything like this before and I am putting a lot of effort into this project to make sure the course has really great value and is worth both my time and those who’ll take it.The UX Research Fundamentals course will be available on Udemy platform, estimated launch — by the end of March 2015. This is my personal deadline and I really hope to make it even earlier, but let’s see how things work out.And just like any product, this course also needs some UX research, which is why I will be doing kind of “Although this small experiment won’t take more than 5 minutes of your time, I know what busy world we all live in, so I would like to give you an extra incentive.So… if this sounds interesting, you are welcome to take the survey right now!About usability and UX

The state of the in-car user experience is something that has been written about extensively in 2015.It’s an obvious point of contention. The in-car infotainment system has been subject to numerous criticisms and scrutiny with their outdated interfaces and less than stellar user experiences. The reasons for this are numerous. After working with KIA on their With that in mind, we challenged ourselves to work within the constraints of today’s vehicle infotainment system and strive for a more cohesive experience from the mobile app to the in-car interface. Leveraging our knowledge of the existing KIA platform, we were able to validate a high-level of functionality and cross-platform communication from mobile device to automotive database.Utilizing a We started off by considering how we might be able to leverage data collected from the car’s companion smartphone app to sync with driver behavior in the in-car experience. By passively collecting the driver’s location via enabled location services, we can start to detect patterns and normalities in everyday behavior. The majority of people take the same route to work, leave around the same time and have pretty predictable habits. By leveraging that data, your smartphone could monitor your normal routes and behaviors and send you recommendations, updates and alerts that could save you time with more direct and up-to-date driving routes.For example, if your normal route to work has a severe traffic delay, you could receive an alert on your phone recommending an alternate route. Confirming the route via your smartphone would send the alternate route directly to your in-car navigation system. The route would automatically be loaded and queued up as soon as you got in your car. By working with the current MyUVO web app we learned how we were able to send commands from a smartphone that would be directly relayed to the in car infotainment system. While these technologies are still in need of some improvements, in terms of speed and response time, the process is promising.While KIA may not have the largest or Without claiming to be industrial design experts we tried to draw some common sense safety and ergonomic conclusions by allowing the driver to control a majority of their media and comfort features from the infotainment dial controller and surrounding buttons so that the driver’s free hand rarely needs to leave the center console to reach for other controls.To further the idea of “centralized control” we even incorporated ideas for utilizing the large infotainment screen for visual feedback on other digital controls throughout the car’s cabin. Immediate visual feedback is always available in the same central location, limiting the need for the driver’s eye to wander around the cabin while driving.Allowing the user to choose what screens are important to them for taking quick action and setting what cabin buttons trigger certain screens. In this concept we imagined that the user could set quick screens within the UVO app that could be launched into a grid of thirds so that the user could quickly navigate between their three favorite in-car apps.Working within an establish grid system, we reimagined what this custom experience would look like. Using common gestures like the “double tap” we can conclude that a user’s expectation is to see any active applications as well as quickly navigate through all of their favorite app. In-car preferences, such as menu and favorites could easily be synced via the app.By integrating learned behavior from user patterns we can start to identify abnormal destinations that might require additional directions. By syncing with a user’s existing calendar application in their smartphone we can integrate alerts for off site meetings, pulling in directions as needed. Drivers would be alerted and routed to their destination automatically, without fumbling with clunky typing mechanisms or an irregular search function. Focusing on quick selection actions, we are relying more on the intuitive and familiar smartphone interfaces for lengthier text inputs and immersive data.I want to emphasize that this is an early stage concept that was built with a week as a side project exploration. While KIA is a client of ours, this is not something that they commissioned us to do. We were simply satisfying our need to explore the options and ideas that came up as part of work creating their MyUVO web application interface. We will be continuing to work with KIA to bring these, and other concepts to life.The good news is that these types of integrations are not too far fetched. With Apple and Google entering the market we are bound to see larger advancements in the industry in the near future. As the car infotainment system continues to evolve we should challenge the industry to look at the in-car experience as an extension of our other devices and not a completely stand alone experience.Director of User Experience at Seamgen. San Diego, CA

We humans have to eat food. There’s no way around it. No matter where you live, or how much money you have or don’t have, a percentage of your income goes to food. It’s easy to take this fact of life for granted. So food can become mundane. Or tedious. The hungrier I am, the more tedious food seems to become. But food can also be a delightful user experience, and this makes it a perfect metaphor for product development and product management. Two scenarios recently powerfully illustrated this for me.One night last month my husband and I visited a close friend in Cambridge, MA, and got carried away in conversation until we all realized, at about 10 PM, that we hadn’t even eaten dinner yet. What to do?Perfect. It’s a long-established fact that all three of us love Indian food. We set out to walk down the street. I was getting hungrier with every step.We arrive at the little restaurant, probably 1,000 square feet in total. I assume it must be good, because at 10:30 PM there are a lot of people inside. Most of the tables are full and lots of people standing around waiting. I assume they are waiting to order, but find out that I take a look at the menu. The menu is composed of three huge boards, hanging over the counter that separates the tables and the kitchen. At this point, I’m famished.40 minutes later, as promised, our food is ready. It’s good. But not great. A week later, while in New York, a contrasting experience lays the groundwork for my UX and product development epiphany:We decide to visit Momofuku (translation: “lucky peach”), a ramen noodle restaurant owned by a chef, David Chang, who we watch occasionally on a PBS series on Netflix called “The Mind of a Chef.” I find Momofuku online, and see that their Saturday lunch hours are 12–4:30pm. We arrive at about 2:30, and there’s a line out the door. I put my name in for a party of 2, and am informed by a pleasant host that it will be a 20-minute wait. The place is about 1000 square feet, and packed tightly with happy patrons, elbow-to-elbow, sitting at long tables with simple wooden, backless benches.We are seated in about 18 minutes, and are presented with two menus, each is half of an 8 1/2 x 11 sheet of paper. With 5 choices, and each choice in close proximity to “preview”, we quickly make our decision and place our orders, and chat with the people sitting within 10 inches of us.Our waiter is pleasant, helpful, and on top of her game. She moves quickly and deftly through the packed restaurant. I notice that the kitchen on the other side of the bar across the airplane-narrow aisle from us, contains two cooks. I look around and notice that the other waitstaff seem just as pleasant and highly-competent, and happy as our waiter.Our food arrives in 20 minutes. It is beautiful and incredibly flavorful and filling. We empty our bowls and plates and depart deeply satisfied and happy for about $30 each, including a generous tip to the excellent waitstaff. I resolve to tell everyone I know to go there.A simple back-of-the-napkin calculation shows that It’s straightforward:Digging deeper, the second restaurant has the The waitstaff at the second restaurant managed the delivery process. Our waiter made sure that we had great service and that our food arrived hot. They made sure that all of the efforts of the chefs were not wasted. They managed our experience.Digging deeper still, when I think about it, there were some good reasons that the second restaurant experience To recap the math,I would be curious to know the seat/table turnover rate and the food and waste costs for each restaurant. I suspect that customer turnover rate in Restaurant 2 is higher, and that food costs and food waste are lower in Restaurant 2, which would, of course, mean I will leave you with this:Lean product management = great user experienceAnd both are like a big bowl of steaming, flavorful, delightful ramen noodles.Copyright 2014, Megan Hurst (@MHzUX)“The Noodle Bar Experience: How is good user experience and lean product management like a bowl of ramen noodles?” by digital strategy consultant. ux architect. librarian. publisher. utilitarian. maker. doer. believer. optimistic malcontent.

Deadlines, project objectives, tasks, assignments, hours reporting … you name it - We all know the structures and concepts of how projects are managed. But do we really understand what makes awesome things come alive?The work of the user experience designer is mostly about creating something totally new, amazing, awesome … something that changes your perception. Creativity is hard work in which inspiration is a result of accomplishment, focus and … hard work.I have had the pleasure of closely following many a design project and some time ago a thought crossed my mind: To design you need to make decisions based on your intuition. Intuition on the other hand is based on emotions.So my questions are - how do emotions actually affect design, what kinds of emotions does a designer go through along the way… and how well do we understand these emotions as project managers?During our design processes, we have collected emotions and here is a short recap of what people doing creative work When a designer receives a brief (task to create something new) the foremost feeling is excitement. The main reason for this feeling is that the designer starts the thinking process and sparks start flying in their brain.More often, when we receive information about the design challenge, we start seeing what can be done, where the design goes and what are the constraints. Designers typically face analytical problems that require focused thinking, the whole capacity of our brains. We start trying out things, failing, experimenting. After hours of frustration, something is finally produced. Ta-daa! Our first satisfactory design.Self-criticism is one thing- but think about when someone else starts evaluating your personality, which happens to be in the form of a UI design? It is a tense time for the designer while the client is waiting for a fantastic, awesome, straight to-the-point, mark-hitting masterpiece. We know that the designer must be able to take criticism and we know it is crucial in the creative process, but it still is a fearsome task to undertake.After several attempts, customer feedback and usability tests- there are times when the designer sees the light. In a magical moment of flow, the designer understands the wholeness of the project, feels elevated, and comprehends the logical and emotional reasoning behind it all – the designer feels When the design project is over, the files are neatly placed in the archives, and the designer’s main task is finished then the feeling is… well, it is hard to describe. Is it positive or negative? Most designers I’ve had discussions with define the feeling by just staying silent (though this can be a Finnish reaction).This list of emotions is based on discussions and self- reflection. I am sure that the above emotional matrix is more colorful when you start thinking about it. In any case, the UX design process is not easy to manage and one reason for that is the level of emotions involved.So next time you manage a design project, I would encourage you to reflect on what the emotions are throughout the process. Maybe then you can understand why we sometimes miss deadlines.Next time, just acknowledge … there is something else in a designer’s mind than the next deadline.Co-founder at idean - 

Medium. Such wow. The paragon of good writing and reading experience. It only made sense that I serve this as my platform for sharing some of the knowledge on user experience I acquired (and will continue to acquire) as a web content specialist for To better serve all readers (especially those new to UX), the first few articles in the series will serve as a high-level overview to various user experience principles. We’ll deep dive and get to the really good stuff later on.At its very core, user experience (or user experience design) is the act of making your website feel like it was built for every individual visitor. And the ideal user experience are those that visitors won’t notice, UX that is fluid and invisible and just makes sense. Everyone notices bad UX. Good UX? Not so much, why? Because good UX just works!I will be writing about different elements that will hopefully help you make a delightful experience for your visitors. I’m going to share some tips on how to make the most out of the different components of a page, from navigations, text, images, to videos and even ads. When putting all these components together, I will share some best practices for laying out information on different types of pages, dealing with FORMS(!), creating product pages (you’ll probably do this a lot, I sure did) and more. Tips for designing different types of websites, from simple ones like blogs, personal/portfolio sites, to complex ones like e-commerce websites, etc.A lot of the best practices in user experience design are based on tried and tested psychological principles and conclusive research into how people work with websites. This can only help us be better user experience designers and make websites that will just make sense for every visitor. Let’s begin!Software, technology, design, user experience war stories, and more

Recently I was chatting with my colleague, Yes. All the above.We often associate user experience design with It’s all the copy you’re forced to read. All the emails you receive. Interacting with a person. Handing over money. Reading a manual. Filling in a form. Watching a video. Printing a document. Installing software. Referring a friend. Branding. Marketing. Sales. Onboarding. Support. It’s the holistic view. It’s the entire customer lifecycle. It’s every interaction with a product or service.Product Designer in San Francisco. 

Measuring User Experience of a (digital) product can become annoying — if you don’t know how to manage. But why the effort to do so?Let’s start with a simple definition of what User Experience (aka. UX) actually is:Regarding that definition, User Experience is all about how the user feels and interacts with your product. So let’s start with five metrics to measure our User Experience.Only happy users can convert to paying customers so that is our first metric we need to measure. We need to measure the user attitude for example through surveys. Metrics could be Satisfaction, perceived ease of use or net-promoter score. Of course, surveys aren’t the only and probably not the best method to track these metrics.We can track the level of user involvement through tracking the number of visits per user per week but also through the number of uploads per user per day or numbers of shares. This depends on your product.The adoption of a new feature or product means how well it is gaining new users. Examples could be upgrades to a new version, new subscriptions or purchases by new users.As we know how the retention is (aka. the rate existing users are returning) we know that users probably love our product — or not! As always I have some examples for you: Number of active users remaining present over time, renewal rate or failure to retain over time (churn!) or repeat purchases.Last but not least is the task success rate. Well, as you can imagine if the user is not able to succeed with his task using your product — your product is dumb and your churn rate will raise (nobody wants a churn rate of 100%)! So the task success is about efficiency and effectivity: Have the user found something valuable through his search? Was the user able to upload a picture within seconds or minutes (and not hours)?You don’t need to use all of these five metrics. It depends on your product and your needs or goals you want to reach with a feature or product. For success you should pick one or two of them and define goals and signals so you can derive metrics from them. I will write another post especially about that process.Sharing insights into awesome User Experience. Founder of 

The project was born out of my experience as a media student at the University of North Carolina, where I often contemplated the widespread implications of the transforming news media culture— not just the rapid emergence of digital media, but also the popularization of 24-hour television news programming. I observed a growing demand for relevance, balance and simplicity in an increasingly overwhelming media landscape. As a lifelong digital media enthusiast, I wanted to create a robust digital experience that addressed that demand.Briefing offers a refreshing approach to the news, helping readers understand complex world issues quickly and in context. Available by email and at briefi.ng, each edition synthesizes and contextualizes the day’s most important news in three minutes or less. Through an extraordinary user experience, it existentially frees readers of the distractions that dominate other news sources.A month into launch, Briefing was enjoying strong subscriber growth. A handful of features made it inherently share-worthy: In addition to its unique design, the topical nature of Briefing’s content lent itself to being triggered in conversations throughout the day.But as with every startup, I wanted to accelerate the subscription rate. I explored myriad growth strategies, the vast majority of which I refused to employ at the risk of disrupting the user experience. My continued research led me to SumoMe’s At first installation, I used List Builder’s default form with Briefing’s minimalist color scheme, and later incorporated a custom form with Briefing’s fonts and other signature styles, creating an extension of the robust user experience rather than an intrusion. The impact was staggering.In the three months following the installation of List Builder, Briefing saw a 28.40% increase in conversion rate, with 70% of new subscriptions occurring via the popup. And the indirect benefits were endless: With more readers subscribing to the newsletter rather than reading the content at briefi.ng, they became more likely to engage at a higher frequency and, above all, to share Briefing with friends, family and coworkers. Ultimately, that landed Briefing on such popular tech publications as Digiday and Netted by the Webbys.By adding SumoMe’s List Builder to Briefing in a way that enhanced the user experience rather than employing alternative tacky, distracting and intrusive growth strategies, I was able to boost Briefing’s subscription rate and stimulate exponential growth.Here are a few strategies you can employ on your own website to boost subscription rates without conceding user experience:How have you improved conversion rates without conceding user experience? Pass along your examples to 

Over my long career I have had many job titles: web designer, webmaster, information architect, user interface designer, user interface developer, front-end developer and human factor engineer, to name the most common. I have also had a handful of less formal titles, including graphic designer, usability guy, UI guy and just plain old web guy. I’ve been referred to as an IT resource as much as a creative one. The funny thing is that for the most part, despite what others think I am, I’ve been doing the same essential work and relying on the same basic disciplines and practices my entire career.On the one hand this mishmash of job titles should not matter to me. My career path has mostly been one of greater challenges, responsibility, authority, and compensation, along with a steady increase in my own expertise and knowledge. So why should I care if my colleagues wish to call me a lead web designer or a front-end developer? Does it really matter?Yes, it does. A lot. This ever-evolving and increasingly ambiguous assortment of job titles implies that no one has a clear idea of what I do. And if they aren’t sure about that, then surely they can’t have a very good understanding of the full value that I bring to the table. Ultimately, this implies that my overall value as a professional — in terms of how much I should be compensated for my expertise and knowledge, as well as how that expertise and knowledge should be best utilized — is anyone’s guess. And that’s not good for anybody.I don’t want my career to be a crap-shoot. I don’t want to have to spend a good portion of my professional energy struggling to convince people of my value and how to best use my services when it should be spent actually providing that value, instead. And if I’m doing that, then I can’t possibly provide the full value that I’m claiming I am worth. So, in the vain hope that there might be a way I can change this unfortunate reality, I have decided to do something about it.What follows is my definition of User Experience Design as a profession. The definition is almost a manifesto, declaring what user experience design is, attempting to clarify and distinguish everything that I do, why I do it, and how I do it. My hope is that by providing this degree of clarity I can more easily demonstrate the tremendous value that can be realized by employing user experience design, help management better understand how to exploit that value, and help myself and my peers earn compensation commensurate with the value we can provide.I’m not arrogant or brilliant enough to believe I’ve got everything “right” here. On the contrary, I’m sure there are some things that will touch a nerve or worse. However, after nearly two decades in this profession, whatever my job title, I believe I have a pretty good understanding of what user experience design is.User experience design is a multi-disciplinary profession concerned with the design of product features and elements that contribute to a pleasurable and successful user experience.User experience design incorporates aspects of psychology, anthropology, sociology, cognitive science, marketing, architecture, graphic design, animation, communication design, industrial design, human-computer interaction design, computer science, and other disciplines as required by the particular product being designed. In addition, certain aspects of application design, product design, content strategy, customer experience design, and digital strategy can also properly fall under the purview of user experience design.Increasingly, while not technically design, code development as it relates to the user interface and its interactive elements is considered an essential user experience design discipline. Where this is the case, it is proper for the unique needs, perspectives and practices of user experience design and UI development in particular to inform the application architecture and software development methodologies to ensure the best possible experience for users.User experience design effectively encompasses seven distinct areas: user research, information architecture, interaction design, visual design, UI development, usability analysis and user experience strategy. While each of these could be a full-time job of its own, it is far more often the case that a user experience designer is expected to wear most if not all of these hats.The understanding of user behaviors, needs and motivations to inform the user experience. User researchers:User researchers produce and/or use:The art and science of making information valuable and easy to find for the user. Information architects:Information architects produce and/or use:The design of engaging interactive interfaces that are easily understood by the user. Interaction designers:Interaction designers produce and/or use:The design of aesthetically pleasing interfaces that elicit an intended emotion from the user. Visual designers:Visual designers produce and/or use:The development of code necessary for a high-performing user interface. UI developers:UI developers produce and/or use:The gathering and evaluation of usability metrics to drive user experience improvement. Usability analysts:Usability analysts produce and/or use:The art of effective user experience design leadership and guidance. User experience strategists:User experience strategists produce and/or use:________________UX + Product Designer. Sometimes I write stuff.Thoughts on design

Large companies have learned the hard way that in today’s digital world, Most critiques of the healthcare.gov roll-out have focused on faulty process as the culprit. Their consensus: government needs to embrace open-source, agile development.But the problems with the Affordable Care Act’s signature platform go far beyond process. They are a result of Washington’s definition of written legislation as policy’s end game, rather than product.Think of when we celebrate policy changes — it’s typically at the bill signing, as the cameras flash and the historic pens are handed out. From a product manager’s perspective, that’s the equivalent of throwing yourself a launch party after writing the technical requirements.The uncomfortable truth facing Washington — Congress and the executive branch — is that For an example of how policy as product can work effectively, take a look at New York City, where I’ve lived for nearly a decade. One of the city’s signature “products” is Last week approval ratings for Congress hit a new low — 12 percent, the worst rating in 40 years. Clearly, it’s time for Washington to embrace change in a big way. My recommendation: opt for product designers over lawyers, and mockups over memos. If you can solve for product, and deliver simple, intuitive solutions to constituents, support for policy and brand should follow.Startups, storytelling, education. Previously at 

I am always surprised to see the user experience on most media sites. It’s as if upon being invited to somebody’s home, you’re introduced to not just every room at once. But every single item in every room and everything that could also possibly be shown to you in those rooms at once. You haven’t even walked fully into the house.Should you find yourself venturing further, you’re met with an endless amount of blinking things intended to get your attention. There was a reason you came here, to this place, but you look around and its like trying to find a needle in a haystack.It’s not a surprise that statistically, most users give up — or ‘bounce.’Granted, a webpage and all of the subset pages that follow it, are essentially ‘real estate’ you can use to draw attention and keep a user around. But in digital media, especially with many legacy media companies, this has (and still is) often so badly exaggerated — dozens of things thrown at the users, ads often larger than the content that the visitor came to find in the first place. Then, a seemingly endless scroll miles below the fold.It wasn’t the print media (or any information delivery) platform business first disrupted by the internet platform. It was communications to a degree, but moreso, it was Faced with this disruption of its legacy business, the retail business grabbed the guns, studied the enemy and ultimately took the platform head on. As part of this, the industry did an extensive amount of research into what made users move around websites and pages around the internet. What if this were here or that was there? What would one do? From there, it learned, it adapted. And with it, harnessed the internet to widely benefit - rather allow it to crush - itself. This is the right approach.This is why 98% of the online retail sites look the way they do, and continue to more than a decade later. It’s not because the industry has not evolved — it absolutely has. It’s because the formats they chose long ago were research based and determined to be the most likely not just keep a visitor on the site but move them around — and even push them to finalize transactions.Certainly, both online retail sites and media sites both have a ton of ‘things’ they want users to see. But rather than try to cram as much of it as possible, if not all, into the experience as most media has done with UI on the internet, retailers used what they took from researching what to do and created an environment that not just attracted users but enticed them, moved them. Most of all, they kept it One year ago this month, I launched a small digital magazine project called Condiment. It had been a vision for over two years beforehand to create the format ultimately used: An online media experience that looked and felt more like a real print magazine, less like a traditional digital media experience. A clean, simple presentation of content. Rather than a bunch of banners, ads that were integrated into the experience in a natural way (via pages) just as you’d see in a really good lifestyle or other print magazine. In a sense, taking a cue from both the online retail business and the traditional print media consumption experience together to see if it might create a new idea for digital media environments online. The experience is then consistent across any device — tablet, smart phone, laptop, PC, even television set, online.What’s been fascinating about the project is that though the user engagement. Condiment is still very small — it took months to build the product and is only now where the effort can shift to growth — the session times, page visits and bounce rates have been incredible. Up to an average of 20 minute session times or more, 3.5 pages or more viewed and low bounce rates. This with no SEO and really, no marketing effort. Sticky, engaged people consuming the product.The average blog, including over a dozen I’ve analyzed or looked at for various projects, MA advising, etc.: 1.5 minute session times, 1.5 pages viewed, up to 60% bounce rate or more.Does it make a case for new ideas regarding UI in the digital media? I believe so. It certainly points to a real viability that in media user experiences online, less can certainly be (and may very well be) more. I’m not the only one who has seen the same vision for media on the internet today but in the coming future, I believe everyone will.Serial entrepreneur, shoe addict, building empire.... 

Nokia 3310, one the world most sold mobile device introduced easy of use, affordability and good hardware to masses. It was it’s time’s revolution, especially from the hardware affordability point of view.iPhone brought us the new paradigm by introducing software user experience as key control point. The fundamental factor to empower that was increased processor capabilities and of course touch screen technology.From the user experience point of view all OS experiences Android and Windows phone has been just following the main UI paradigms either with icons on grid or like with Windows tiles. Touch interaction paradigms are pretty much the same: various swipes, taps, pinch and zooms … you name it.Recent launches of iPhone5, Samsung Galaxy 4 and Nokia Lumia 920 has clearly showed that phone OS User experience is not actually developing at all. This is significant since most of the mobile experience is conveyed through OS UI. Apple, Google and Microsoft quite rightfully keep tight control on their OS experience and there is not much room for handset manufacturer to make differentiating experience.What we have seen recently with device launches are only incremental development of hardware (especially screens) and some really minor UI improvements.My point is that the OS UI evolution stays incremental for long time, but the real revolutions in the mobile experience is waiting for hardware innovations. Here are my guesses on which areas revolutions may or should happen.Battery life - who designs durable, but environmentally friendly version towards more time to actually use services.Charging ecosystem - Nokia already has the wireless charging, but where can you charge your phone wirelessly. Make life bit more easier.Sensors - who makes device sensors really ubiquitous and as easy to us in applications as google maps API is right now.Cover materials - nanotechnology or some weird stuff mounted in the phone cover. I have no idea what that would do.Touch screen - more prominent user feedback will help text input tremendously and make mobile device more capable on content production than just consumption.As you can see from my list. Next big thing in the mobile user experience is defined by hardware innovations.Co-founder at idean - 

Everyone knows John Spedan Lewis as the founder of the John Lewis Partnership, which sees the partnership of John lewis department stores and Waitrose. However his father, John Lewis opened the first store on Oxford Street in the spring of 1864. As a draper by trade, John Lewis stocked 50 different types of black fabric, which may seem a bit much for us now, but in the Victorian era it was not only a fashionable colour but funeral wear was common due to widespread death. This shows us that John Lewis was an original retail experience designer — he understood what his customers wanted and responded accordingly. This attitude was taken on by John Speden Lewis (JSL) and set the principles for the way John Lewis runs today — choice, value and service.Since this, John Lewis stores have been at the forefront for retail design. In the early 20th century JSL wanted to renovate the architecture of the stores. He wanted to bring them into the modern era, and less reflect the traditional victorian and edwardian designs. Significant investment was put into the renovation of key stores in 1937 including Peter Jones in Sloane Square with the new curved glass facade. This provided lots of daylight and large, flexible open-plan retail spaces. This attitude is still evident today, with the design of the Leicester store completed by Foreign Office Architects in 2008.As part of the 150 year celebrations earlier this year, John Lewis set up JLABS, a technology incubator for start ups. With a focus on consumer technology innovations, the selected teams would work alongside John Lewis leaders and external mentors including Stuart Marks and Bindi Karia, to develop their products and solutions. Five were selected to form a shortlist and were given £12,500, an office space in Canary Wharf and had just 12 weeks to impress. The final pitches were last week with the hope of their product being used in store and a further £100,000 of investment.First up is Next up is Last but not least we have The winner was announced at the weekend as Localz, which I am super happy with. To me, this technology has the potential to do so much more for the shopping experience. For example, being able to navigate my way round the giant stores based on my wishlist is really exciting, bringing together the online and offline experience seamlessly — I wouldn’t buy furniture online without looking at it first, so this approach solves the faffing around trying to find the one item I go to a five floor store to look for. Brilliant.After 150 years of business, John Lewis still has a reputation as a forward thinking leader in retail experience design. They are not the first large retailer to introduce start ups to the innovation and design side of their business but the fact that the largest department store retailer in the UK is willing to invest and help develop these potentially game-changing ideas, gives hope to anyone with a product, and enthusiasm for change. Watch this space.Visual Designer at Foolproof, London. Pattern loving, mad men obsessive, tea drinker in the day, gin drinker at night.

Great. Facebook will soon release But i am not sure this was for Facebook the most critical way to solve the problem people have with reading news on the mobile.People, without any doubt, discover news daily on their newsfeed. And Facebook has become one of the largest driver of traffic to the web. Well after Google.In reality the experience of the newsfeed is already a great experience to snack news around. But there is something Facebook is totally missing. News consumption.Sure they elegantly present a news snap in the feed. But the actual experience of consuming the news is terrible and painful. Specially because it is repeated daily.We all know this experiment and i am convinced users are frustrated with it.So here is the question. Why Facebook does not solve that pain (which is by the way also true on the desktop). Why Facebook does not make it easy to switch back and forth between content and newsfeed.They don t do that. And this is clearly the most obvious and right thing to do from a user experience.So they don t that. Why? It is way easier for them to monetize with a stand alone app where you totally control the layout, attract big budgets from agencies and stuck this coming “fragmented” app with ads. Other questions come to mind about the relation Facebook will have to have with publishers once they start monetizing Paper. But that s another topic.The right choice here is dictated by business terms and potential rather by what s right for users.co founder of 

I read a lot about user-centered design and user-centered process when designing digital products. The premise that one must be aware of business goals, but ultimately focus on the user goals and experience is paramount in the modern design field. In all my years of design, however, I see that we say our process is user goal centered, but we assume too much, and we forget that designing for user goals means nothing if you don’t have the user experience in mind. Then, how do we know that we are hitting the goal, and are also mindful of the user experience overall?How many times have you conducted objective user research on your product? Did your product manager test the prototype and was satisfied? Was that enough for you? And you’re an advocate of user testing and user centered design, right?More than once, Ive seen in-house design and development teams “test” a product and changing it based on personal opinions and shallow screen reviews. Some teams go as far as to create terrible static or semi-dynamic prototypes, set up a few “testing” sessions and start building based on the feedback they got. I have even seen focus group sessions as a way to gather feedback.I am not saying that lean user research / testing techniques are not good techniques, because it just depends on the product and the development phase that you’re in. What I really want to say is that Watching users interact with the product in real time is the best way to assess whether or not it is working for them, the way that you intended. Many of us still rely on self-reported user feedback. We release our product and expect people to report the issues, and give us suggestions for improvement. This is all good, but again, not enough and not quite as exciting and insightful as observing them miss the button, or take a different and unexpected path as they were using the product.Experiences with digital products are unique, and context is important. More than ever with the different modes of access, people address the need to access your product from their own unique perspective. Everyone has different expectations, their own familiarity with different design patterns, and specific motivations to use the product. Your job is to find out those “specifics”, and to align your product to address “most” needs to provide the “best” experience for all of them.To watch your product “in the wild” can be incredibly liberating. It will inspire you to seek ways to really make a difference for those who had trouble with your product, and it will delight you to watch those who got in and got what they needed out of it.You already know that digital products are iterative in nature, your first releases won’t be perfect. If you can test many times and iterate without releasing fully, then you’re lucky. If you have to quickly deliver the value but don’t have resources to test fully, test in the wild and be ready to quickly resolve the issues to make your product the best it can be.Go out and watch your product BE experienced! You’ll be glad you did.Web user experience strategist — on twitter 

For businesses, 2014 is the year when mobile will be first medium to get connected with the users. Mobile app marketers will seek the new methods to As many until lately have used the desktop and laptop to get the things done on the web for the past two years. Mobile UX design will take the middle level as the web designers and developers will aim to turn mobile users into faithful mobile app customers. One of the difficulties that can be found is to eliminate the idea many people have, that, just due to it’s a small screen device, daily projects should not be regarded a hassle.Small and big brands keep endeavor to make the mobile user experience so sleek, user will consider their smartphones as a first display rather than their second option. By developing mobile applications and integrating mobile UX design they can accomplish this.Here I am sharing some mobile UX design trends that will helps you to provide great user experience to your mobile customers.Do you have any design style tricks that you would like to share? What draws your customers in? Share with us via commenting below.Digital Marketer and Editor  Blogger-in-Chief at All about mobile development, app development, and more

While it’s not perceived as a problem, a limitation on user experience design is that it is an optimization of competing interests to seek the most palatable solution for potential users. We see this a growing limitation of our technology to adapt to who we are, and more importantly, how we’re feeling when we use a device or an app. So long as UX is static, our interactions with technology will be limited.In the next twenty years, we expect to see these limitation lifted; where the technology we use adapts to our behavior and our personality. Our technology will not only learn from our past, much the way that Big Data makes predictions on what we’ll buy, what we want to listen and watch, but will be able to detect our emotional state and physical condition, allowing the interface design to adapt to our immediate condition.What we see is that technology will be able to connect humans and machines in a “smart” way, to improve the user experience holistically. With that said there are always emotions we have to deal with which in turn affects our daily experience. As a user we always have a user experience by using technology. Either we drink coffee, play a game or use an app on our smartphones; by the end of the day we want satisfaction from having a good experience which in turn makes us happy.As a foundation we have basic emotions such as happiness, sadness or anger. All three are relatively easy to detect by human beings and is he foundation in our daily lives to relate to others. To detect these on a smartphone is a much harder challenge because you can’t simply inquire about the user’s state of mind, as the result would be subjective.As presently seen and expected in the future the power of smartphones to collect necessary data which can be processed into accurate emotions will be enormous. Modern smartphones are already equipped with several sensors allowing us to record and store sound, motion, pictures and light intensity. By bringing this data into context with our bodies we are able to identify emotions which are different than our status quo. A faster gesture, a louder voice, and even a different mimic than usual can signal that a user is in an angry mood. Based on this we might deliver different designs to calibrate the user experience individually based on his or her current state of mind.A basic scenario looks like this: the smartphone detects a user’s emotion and warns him or her not to perform a particular action to avoid potential harm to others because research has proven that driving while angry can be dangerous. Recommendations based on changes in an emotional state, if relied upon too heavily by users, can have the downfall as a user can become overly dependent on them, but for the intial phase of this technology such examples are necessary to begin to refine their accuracy.Let’s examine a few potential scenarios that would be easily buildable using today’s existing applicationsA happy and satisfied customer is more likely to come back and use services again than an unsatisfied customer. A call center is already using voice recognition in order to detect an angry customer who might cause problems. What about smartphone users who have missed a connecting flight? They may be angry and want to check their smartphone for the next flight or just complain about the waste of time waiting at the airport. Imagine a user who engages an app that has the ability to detect his or her emotional state and can provide the right design which helps to generate a positive user experience. He or she is then more likely to remember the positive turn of the situation and walk away feeling satisfied.People’s purchasing behavior can be influenced by their emotional state. Many products directly target consumers in a certain mood as they are actually developed to arouse that mood. Other products or services, on the other hand, would not be considered for purchase based on a conflicting state of mind of a product and the intended emotional the product or service is designed to create. If a smartphone is able to detect emotions it can offer the right product for the fitting state of mind of the user which would increase customer satisfaction in online shops by actually directing users in a physical space.The intent of storytelling is to arouse certain emotions that increases the likelihood of a consumer to make a purchase. The question of what story is fitting to which user’s emotions is one that will be addressed in the future. Can a smartphone in the future recognize a user’s emotions well enough to direct ads using the right ‚story’ to him or her to ensure the best fit, thus the strongest interest in a product or service and to enjoy a positive User Experience?Which movie do you want to watch? You may have no idea but you can describe your mood precisely. If your TV would have the ability to detect your emotions it might also offer you recommendations for the fitting movies for you that you would have interest in watching with your current state of mind. This would also be applicable for any music or other streaming service that provides recommendations to users.Thanks to Daniel Young for editing my English. Read more on our Freigeist auf Reisen at DXYdoes.com in Berlin | We Build Digital Products

The journey to a new destination has to start somewhere. For me, that journey was at Hyper Island, Singapore. Without diving too much into my back story, I’ll tell you how I got here.I’ve worked in global corporates for most of my career and I have always felt that we weren’t doing what we should be doing for our customers. Solving their problems, yes, but were we REALLY helping them. Were we trying to get to the core of their issues and ensure that our solution was sustainable and long-term. There was a disconnect between us, the guys with the knowledge and experience, and the real users of the compelling problem we were paid to solve. We assumed we were told everything we needed to know by the paying customer, while never asking the end-users, the guys that were going to be using this solution the most. Now I know it’s very (very) important to listen to the people paying your salary, but is it not also important to listen to the users, the people that know the daily struggles and the challenges of their day-to-day tasks. My question is this: Can we introduce exploring the end-user experience in B2B in greater depth?Shall I throw you a buzzword now or is that too soon? Tough. For most of the time we would (here goes) “sell the dream and live the nightmare”. I’m sure most of you reading this know what that means; we do so well selling the idea to our customer, that by the time we reach delivery, we — as in the organisation implementing the solution — feel the pain in-life. Complexities like the sales team oversold the product, or it doesn’t do what it says on the tin, means there are problems with delivering in the timescales we gave because we face new obstacles we hadn’t taken into account. You can see how quickly this becomes a problem.And this was my problem. We weren’t really focused on how to solve the challenge but how can we sell to this customer quickly to make our targets and fill our pockets. Not mine, mind. I was part of the bid team and everyone knows they don’t get their pockets filled. But let me say one thing before you think the past companies I worked for were not very good; they were good. And during my time there, we were very good at doing what we did, only we could have been better if we had added an extra component into our thought process; the end-user. All my career I have been aching to solve problems that really matter. And finally, I’m about to.So we backtrack to January 2014 when I was asked by the CEO of Xchanging in Malaysia to head up his creative team in Kuala Lumpur. A super-talented team of designers and developers who worked with various clients around the world building websites and applications. After a few months, I realised that I could help to make positive change and use my new responsibility to influence what I had been unable to in my previous roles: I could build digital solutions that were more focused on solving problems, with end-users in mind, but better. Only I didn’t really know how and where to start.And that’s when I found Over the next year I’ll be documenting my journey, taking you on my experience into a world of digital interactive and experience design, and talking about my learnings along the way. Between finding the time to tell you about the highs and lows and sleep deprivation, I may even share the best place you can get a flat white (though we all know it’s Takk).If you have any thoughts you’d like to share or discuss, I’d love to hear from you.Studying a MA in Digital Experience Design at Hyper Island and based in Manchester. “Design beautiful in simplicity and intuitive in function.” — Me

In Overtask mobile, we decided to incorporate tested productivity methods in addition to our four main concepts — Focus, Organize, Assist, and Collaborate. One of it was daily planning. We felt that it was crucial for users to plan their day in order to get the most out of it and be more productive.After Design Your Day (initially called Plan Your Day) works by sending users a push notification every morning at a predefined time for them to go through their overdue and pre-scheduled tasks. This allows them to know what needs to be done and to prioritize tasks by scheduling it to a specific time or snoozing it if it’s not important.We wanted to create this little delightful experience to get people going everyday. It had to be simple, fast, and something they wouldnt get tired of.In the Each task has two sets of actions — selecting done, today, or later, and setting a time which were to be presented separately to reduce to amount of buttons on the screen at one time.The most important factor in giving Design Your Day a delightful experience is animations. Even the smallest animations could make a big difference.Similar to the task card, the action buttons are on a card — Let’s call this the Action Card. The Action Card is a card that is folded in two horizontally. The done, today, and later buttons are placed on the top outer layer of the card, and the card flips open to display the time buttons inside.The design underwent multiple iterations before I even made the first high-fidelity mockup. This included streamlining the entire flow to ensure it was simple, delightful, functional, and useful.Daily quotes were added to provide inspiration for users to start their day, gestures on task cards were removed to keep the user actions simple and straightforward. We also added background images with a different background everyday.We kept iterating the design to ensure it could be well communicated with our users, and the entire process was a smooth and useful flow.The major change made was the colors. We decided to go for flat colored backgrounds instead of using images to fit the overall design direction of the app. The action buttons also had different colors to create a better visual cue for the users.Besides that, we made it more useful by allowing users to add tasks within the Design Your Day flow. Not all users are going to pre-schedule their tasks and we don’t want them to have no tasks to go through when designing their day. Adding tasks was a lot simpler with the Design Your Day flow as there were less options to define.Here’s the interface for Design Your Day in Design Release 1:The idea is now more concrete and the design reflects our initial vision of daily planning. And when the animations are added on, I can see it becoming a delightful process our users would be addicted on.If you have any suggestions regarding the design, I would love to hear from you. Comment here or tweet me at I’m a designer who codes. Always trying to get better at what I do.

Part 1 of 3Ive now reviewed hundreds of different web and mobile apps for their user onboarding processes, but that fact is it’s always easier to look at somebody’s work and take it apart in retrospect, going through the functioning product. To create and embed a good user onboarding into a brand new product, which hasnt taken shape yet is way harder. In this short series I wanted to share some tips on how make the process of designing a great user onboarding easier.The entire process can be roughly divided into three parts and today we’ll be looking at part 1:While this may sound obvious, you really need to know your users. By understanding who they are you’ll be able to understand how much they know about your product, what predispositions or expectations they have and thus how to communicate to them in the best way.The answers to these two questions should be similar or the same. Ideally, your positioning should be identical to what your users are looking for and what they are expecting, i.e. you should be selling what they’re buying.This could be pivotal in the way you’re thinking about your product features. The one feature that your users expect should be front and center during their first encounter. Once you decide what that feature is, now it’s about making it easy to use and the value of using it apparent.This last point is particularly important. We’re likely to fight an uphill battle here, since expectations are quite low and we’ll have to deal with apathy and negative predisposition created by other apps out there. BUT, at the same time it’s an opportunity to WOW! and blow them away.We come pretty close here.There we have it — by understanding who your users are and what they expect you can match your product value to these expectations, which in turn will reveal what initial experience you’ll need to design.With this theoretical understanding under the belt, you’ll be ready to move on to Part 2: Design and implementation.Scribbles on user onboarding

At I address the two issues that make teams forget about UX: lack of resources and knowledge. Not having enough resources or knowledge is no excuse for putting UX on a side-track.This usually happens to small teams. The reason being that in big teams it is scarcely a problem to hire a specific person (or a whole team) devoted to UX. Small teams or startups can’t afford that. On top of that, when it comes to web and mobile apps, teams usually consist of mainly developers. Overly-technical developers that are sometimes just a bit too clunky. I know the feeling because I am a part of such a team. The good news is that designing pretty good UX is not hard at all.Before the version of Datafy.it available today, there were countless others. When we developed the first version it was so complicated to use that people were reluctant to do it. And when they did, they were constantly asking for help. Most of our calls and emails were customer support related. That meant spending a lot of precious time.Through the process of developing Datafy.it we also learned a couple of things about developing user experience. And the way these things usually go, we had to make a few mistakes before learning the important lessons. Here is a list of 7 mistakes we made that made us learn 7 valuable lessons.A common pitfall is that no one on the team is in charge of UX. If no one is assigned, you can’t expect that it will magically be taken care of. Teams don’t assign anyone because it’s not possible to get a UX expert right away. Unfortunately, that’s what makes them think that UX can wait. Because in an ideal world, you would have a person (or even a team) that would focus exclusively on UX. In real world, you can’t afford that, so you simply ignore it all together.When you don’t have anyone focusing on UX it’s easy to forget about the user. When any kind of debate regarding our app came up, it usually looked like this (a very simplified view): CEO was defending the big picture and marketing point of view, CTO considered the technical stuff and that was it. What was missing? Someone constantly putting themselves in user’s shoes and defending their point of view. When that’s missing, it’s easy to make a decision that’s not friendly to the user.Here’s the thing. When thinking about UX you have to know what the actual users think, what their pains are and so on. Not guess it, but hear it from them. Our team at the time was 4 developers and our CEO, who was taking care of sales, marketing and usually customer support. This is not unusual since developers are often quite content in their own bubble and, therefore, don’t really communicate with the customers. “It’s not their job”. Well, maybe that’s the case, but the consequence is that you can never really know what the users want and need and where your app is failing in the real world. You make guesses and speculations. If you want a decent UX, this won’t do.We have to constantly focus on not falling into the trap of overcomplicating. The first version of Datafy.it had a lot more features than the current one. Most of them unuseful, which we didn’t realize at the time. Instead of having a simple search engine, we offered features like scheduling, starting and pausing, different kinds of export. This meant a lot of work for us as well as the users — they couldn’t focus on the task at hand because of all the distraction.The scary thing about complicating is that it is so easy to achieve, without even realizing you are doing it. This is true especially for developers. At any given moment we have 30 ideas for new features regarding any aspect of the app. They all sound great in your head, when in fact most of them are ridiculous. This can be an issue, because if you follow all those impulses you end up with an unusable app.At Datafy.it our fundamental feature is searching, so we charge based on the number of searches. Today we call them searches, but when we first started we called them queries. To us, it made perfect sense and it didn’t even cross our minds that there is anything wrong with that term. Eventually, we realized that most people didn’t understand what we mean by ‘query’. And that’s something that happens way too often. It makes sense — we are a group of 5 IT guys and a lot of technical terms sound completely normal to us, simply because we are used to them. The problem is that we don’t know when we are using technical terms. We are deaf to that. It’s only natural, but it can be problematic when developing an app that’s meant for non-tech people.As mentioned earlier, we can never really know what the user experience of an app is like, if we don’t communicate with the users. We’re simply in the dark. So when we develop, we rely on our assumptions and guesses. Make no mistake, we are confident in our gut feeling of what works and what doesn’t. We feel we Surprisingly, sometimes we fail to follow the simplest rules. Following some After going through all those mistakes, it’s always so rewarding to get a positive feedback about the ease of use of our app. Seeing people using it the way we imagined, without having to explain it, makes me feel like we did a good job. And more importantly, it empowers our users to really focus on the task at hand.All it took were some simple tweaks to the way we work. Anyone can (and should) do the same. Your users will be grateful.Programmer by day, jazz fiend by night. Python, Django, Full Stack, UX. From Satchmo to Monk to Sun Ra

Over the past four years, I’ve been undertaking Doctorate research looking at how business leaders used data in their decision making process. My research focused on factors that influenced data choices and how senior business leaders prioritized different sources of information in decisions.What I found is that Managers were being asked to consume an overwhelming number of dashboards and reports to make business decisions. Many were struggling to comprehend all the information and finding it difficult to know what to use to make decisions.The reason Managers have been overwhelmed is because the Big Data investment so far has focused on data technology. Companies have enthusiastically invested in data by building databases, buying business intelligence platforms and creating data analytics teams to dissect the growing data resource.However, these investments have largely ignored the users who will be responsible for using the data insights in their decision making. Companies have focused on generating more and more pieces of data intelligence rather than carefully curating and managing the user experience so that data is easily put to use by Managers. All of which has led to Managers being overwhelmed with sources of data.Businesses ignore the user experience of data at their peril. Research shows that overwhelming amounts of information reduce the decision making ability. In one academic study, loan officers who were given too much information made worse business decisions than those with almost no information. In my research, Managers overwhelmed by data were shown to rely on subjective factors to choose what data to use instead of focusing on the best data for the business need.These examples highlight that the user experience is a critical consideration and that improving the user experience is important to ensuring Managers are using data effectively in business decisions. After all, databases don’t unlock the value of data, The business challenge to better data use goes beyond managing the volume of data. The real challenge is the ability for businesses to curate, synthesize and manage the growing variety of data sources available.For example, social networks are a relatively new medium but they have created many new sources of business data. Some of these include sentiment tracking, text analytics, social advertising, image recognition, sharing algorithms and behavioral data.Additionally, the move to a more mobile-based society has added new data sources to the menu and the Internet of Things promises to add countless more for businesses to manage.The arrival of each new data source presents a challenge because it competes for resources, time and mind-share among senior business leaders.The opportunity available with the growing variety of data sources has been well covered. For example, companies can use business intelligence sources for better competitive insights, improved business efficiency, better understanding of customers and unlocking new market opportunities.However, the growing variety of data challenges businesses to improve the user experience so that managers can easily use the right data, at the right time, to make decisions.Until now, analytics teams have been quick to generate an increasing number of dashboards, reports and presentations to show value to the business. However, these dashboards have been rolled out without any structure or management leading to an overwhelming mishmash of information.For example, Marketing Managers in one product group at a company in my research were forced to navigate 71 Tableau dashboards sitting on the central library. These dashboards didn’t have consistent labeling and lacked any consistent structure. Some of the dashboards were even using different data sources to answer the same business question leading to contradictory (and confusing!) recommendations.There is little chance that fewer data sources will exist in the future, so the responsibility falls on businesses to invest in the structures that enable managers to easily use data insights.To do this, I recommend focusing on the holistic user experience of data within the organization.This means reviewing everything from measurement planning through to visual design, communication of results, data curation and the management of organizational dashboards.Here are four high-impact areas businesses can focus on to improve the user experience of data:These work streams are vast but the challenge will only intensify as these areas are left unattended. It’s also important to understand that addressing these areas is a cross-functional challenge. It will need to include professionals across analytics, engineering, design, product teams and senior management under dedicated data leadership.Most companies I interviewed for my research were at the early stage of this process. Either they weren’t aware of the challenges or were just beginning to understand the difficulty facing managers in using data.The challenge will be to match the investment in data analysis technologies with a similar investment in the user experience that enable managers to easily use data insights. This may be a long term investment but focusing on the user experience of data will create enormous value across the entire organization.Analytics professional. PhD. Exploring data use in decision making. Advocate of #DesignThinking. Beach and smoothie fan.

User experience actually has a formal definition (ISO 9241-210), but it boils down to:This means that it includes both your system, and how people react to it. And since you can’t directly control anyone’s reaction, it is all the more important to consciously create whatever you are putting in front of them.People experience their environment emotionally, and unfortunately, negative emotions are “stickier”. But positive word of mouth is also very important. And to generate it, you need to provide an exceptional experience.You set the tone for your customer’s experience. If you don’t decide what that tone is, your customer will.Measuring user experience is a good way to track how well you are doing. Even products which are not totally “ripe” can generate interest and loyalty, IF the user experience is good. And even “problems”, when handled well, can result in happy customers and referrals. Surprise your customers, and they won’t forget you. And they’ll keep coming back.Director 

A Practical Guide in Mobile Game DevelopmentFirst Time User Experiences (FTUE or FTUX) are used to explain concepts and interfaces to new players so that they can start enjoying your game as quickly as possible. To create a FTUE that is punchy, relevant and adaptable is no easy task and often overlooked by novice developers; I’m tempted to say that a good FTUE will add more value to your game than anything other single element.This guide explains the decisions made in creating the FTUE for In the mobile world we are blessed with just one input device:And a limited number of actions:Guiding the user through your Game interface should be a painless experience, at its most fundamental: highlight the area of interest and demonstrate the actions they need to perform.You will need 4 basic views, starting at the bottom:A 9-slice image that sits at the bottom of your view stack. Commonly 9-slice images are used to stretch images while keeping the edges and corners in proportion (To get this effect, you need logic like this:Et voilà! You now have a flexible spotlight system that uses only one image, and can be adjusted to your exact needs.Since the spotlight image can dynamically position itself to highlight elements of your game, the text should either sit above OR below the spotlight area — simply, get out of the way!This is a trivial affair to implement:It is in this manner that we don’t need to worry about the position of the text with each FTUE definition, or even device resolutions!The best place to add flair and design to your FTUE, in Candy Crush Saga the hand icon is actually “Mr Toffee”, the Guide for the in-game character I’m still designing my Guide, but for the time being I’m using this:In practice I’ve made sure that the motion feels natural and that the portrayed action is obvious:Not all of your players need guidance; they may have played through before or even have a friend giving them tips as they go. It is essential that your FTUE can be skipped, the players that want this will likely be valuable, retained players! Don’t annoy them.The final piece of the technical puzzle; it’s essential that you log user data regarding FTUE interaction; you should be logging other game metrics such as pass-rates etc so this will be a breeze to setup.For every FTUE “slide” you should log:Knowing how your players interact with the FTUE is essential for improving your service and ultimately increasing player retention!There is a lot of anecdotal evidence that brief tutorial “tips” are the best way to engage your player and preventing information overload. Less noise, more signal! With Molecule Match I follow As much as possible, you should flip flop between tutorial and play:Finally, be fun! If your FTUE itself is enjoyable then it will feel less like a chore! Plants V. Zombies has “Crazy Dave” accompanied by a madman grargle, pan hat and zany language. Candy Crush uses “Mr Toffee” to emphasise the overall theme of the game. With Creative Problem Solver

You may have noticed recently that your Consequently, LinkedIn lost a fanboy this month: Me.And, probably more pertinent to them and their shareholders, they also lost what I suspect won’t be the last ‘paying punter’.*Because at a stroke not only did they hack me off, they also In an admittedly drop-in-the-ocean protest, I cancelled my paid-for Premium account and reverted back to free. (Although obviously I’ll keep an eye on it, my clients will still be expecting appropriate But as business tool, LinkedIn is pretty much a fatally flawed tool, if not a busted flush for me.Becoming, in a word, vapid.So why the strop?Well late last year the company switched off what many in the community consider one of the key benefits of the site: LinkedIn status updates. Specifically social updates and activities displayed as a core component of a user’s profile.A hugely useful facility for millions, it allowed us to tell real time stories, break news, share information, establish relationships and build reputations with existing connections and new profile visitors.A killer feature (in my book) in the service of developing our personal online brands, it also enabled us to get invaluable intel about what was rocking other users worlds in real time.And then it was gone.A wander around the LinkedIn support pages, (I hesitate to call them ‘help’ pages now), shows the strength and depth of negative sentiment that putting this essential service out to grass has evoked: There’s outrage at the outage.Not least I suspect, because LinkedIn appeared to position the move as a ’benefit’.Here’s how they announced the change:How can pulling the plug on a key, powerful and essentially ‘social’ feature such as user updates possibly be seen as providing ‘a great experience for members’?LinkedIn status updates and activity posts by users were a great way of reading someone’s social media tea-leaves. Of divining insights, faceted information and opportunities to engage. Touchstones to respond, share and extend relationships based on REAL TIME user interests across the network.Of course, you can still post updates and share activities, but crucially they don’t show on your profile. LinkedIn status and activity updates are now buried in the main stream of the home page.Can you now be bothered to dig deep enough to find your connections’ updates?Nope, neither can I.Go to any profile page now and it’s pretty much all OLD STUFF: School, University, current company, recommendations, endorsements, (and DON’T get me going about endorsements. You don’t want to get me going about endorsements).To my way of thinking, profiles on LinkedIn have become, literally, unremarkable. Inert.With precious little to recommend them. Or you. Nothing vital, live or remotely socially current.But why am I so high horsey about this?Well for years I’ve invested zeal, energy and evangelism in the service of LinkedIn. Recommending the platform to clients who wanted a social share of voice. Many, (the majority?) of these clients didn’t/don’t have a personal Twitter account, so LinkedIn updates were really the only game in town for them, in terms of the opportunity to post appropriate realtime online updates and shares.And now that facility has been taken away from them, withdrawn under the guise of ‘improvements’.Though I scan the horizon daily, there’s no sign yet of a change of heart at LinkedIn and a re-instatement of this vital feature.Google+ and Twitter will doubtless be having a party down at their respective houses.*Withdrawing my 20 quid or so monthly subscription is a drop in the internet bucket I grant you, making a hardly-worth-mentioning dint in their 250 million user base.But boy did downgrading my account feel satisfying.Social Business Consulting Services. Helping Brands and Senior Executives raise their Social Media game.

Moving can be stressful. Once you’ve gone through the challenging task of finding a place to live, you still have to pack, move, and unpack. But then the real adventure begins.You have to go through the process of transferring electric and/or gas services. If you’re lucky you might be able to do all this over the phone or online. If not, get ready to take time off to stand in a line at those offices to show them the paperwork to get it all sorted out (I swear, I am who I say). Done and done, now the ONLY thing left is to get Internet. That’s easy; you do a little research and decide on a good service that you can afford. I went with a particular company because they were at the right price point and they had even received an Emmy Award for User Experience and Visual Design in some of their core products. As a UX professional, I was pretty impressed by this achievement.Anxious to have Internet, I started the process of getting my new service installed. I called them up to give them details, but that’s when things started heading downhill from a “user experience” perspective for me. I called them to set up an appointment and they told me they’d come out to my place some time between 3–5pm. Okay.I left the office early that day to be available for the technician. No one came or even called during the anticipated time frame. So, I called the number given during my earlier conversation with them only to find out that I am supposed to call another helpline. Before I could dial the other number, I received a call from the technician. Here’s how it went down:At 9:30 pm, I called Customer Service to tell them about my frustrating experience. While I was going on and on about it, the representative cut me short by saying that they can come the next day between 7–9 am. Note how they fail to apologize even once in my interactions with them so far. As expected, no one came until 9 am the next day. I furiously called them back to cancel my request. I was then told that a technician is working RIGHT NOW at my apartment. I panicked as I was already at work, and called a friend to look over the installation in my absence (God bless him!). The technician offered a $20 credit for our ‘troubles’, which felt more like he was belittling my frustrations.This whole process made me consider what “user experience” means to companies in today’s world. Where does it begin and end? Is it just the digital experience? Does a company’s UX team pay no attention to the experience of “getting the services”? (Answer: No, because that group sits in a different part of the building most of the time). They claim to understand what the user wants, but it seems to be missing a very big chunk of the real experience.From some online research, I found that the UX team at this particular company is focused on developing and designing the TV experience, but is leaving out the service aspect of their products. A simple feedback loop for the user in my scenario would have saved so much confusion and running around. I later found out about their recent effort to create an app that prevents these issues, but it also misses the mark because it tries to replace rather than support the experience. One thing that we believe here at Intuitive is that the digital experience is not just about human-computer interaction, it’s about human-to-human interaction (just ask UX can and should go beyond the digital. It’s the “strategy” part of what we do at IC during a research and strategy project. We seek to understand as much of the user’s interaction with a tool as we seek to understand about the interaction users have with the world around them. We consider the relationship users have with both the products and the services a company offers and find strategic ways to help one support the other. Whether we’re thinking about the role of customer service representatives or your financial advisor, UX strategy needs to consider the holistic experience of the end user.Usability Researcher  Strategist | Loves Tea  Travel

Breaking your chains doesn’t mean to break the rules of the system you got in. It can’t be expected to be a good player from someone who doesn’t keep the rules and doesn’t know them well. Don’t be too lazy to keep the rules or don’t revolt. You’re not in the position to break the rules and apply your own rules. You just want to be successful in this business and earn more money. Just act smart and dynamic.As there are standards in each industry, there are also some standards for the web. To keep the web standards, increases the quality of your work and makes you look more professionnal. Consequently, you earn much more money. That’s already sufficient to love them but you have many more reasons to love the web standards…Those standards which are defined by the W3C (World Wide Web Consortium) formed by institutions managing the researches for all the areas concerning the Web and developping standards are called web standards. The most interesting part of those standards are about the XHTML, CSS ve XML coding languages. Those standards were defined for your website to be viewed correctly in the future and for the content to be accessible for as many people as possible.W3C (World Wide Web Consortium) is an international association which works on developping the web standards by the help of the member organisations, their employees and with the public support. The main purpose of W3C which was built in October 1994 by Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the network is to lead the web potential.W3C believes that the web is a great opportunity for communication, commerce and sharing of knowledge. That’s why one of his purposes is to get those opportunities accessible for everyone without any distinction of equipment, software, network infrastructure, native language, geographical position, physical and mental abilities.Unfortunately each browser interprets websites in a different way. If you design the websites without taking browser conformity into consideration, they will appear differently on every browser. As a consequence, some of the features won’t work and the visitors won’t be able to access the information. You have to design websites conform with popular browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Safari, Opera, Google Chrome.With the pressure of W3C and the public pressure, the modern web browsers I mentioned are forced to support the web standards at every new version. Actually neither users, nor website owners care about that. The ones that are the most happy about this are designers and developers. If you code your website conform to the standards, it will be conform with the modern web browsers. So, much more people can view your website correctly and use it as you wished, increases accessibility.Search engine optimization is a process that intends your web site to be listed on the top for searches concerning the content of your website on Google. People search for everything they want over Google which is the most popular search engine. By making the search engine optimisation, your website reachs your target group effectively and economically.The designing of the websites conform with the web standards is very important for the future of the Internet. Because, even if the technology changes, your content will be viewed correctly thanks to the codes conform to the web standards even after many years. As Google has to care about his own future and the future of the Internet, it accords much more value to the websites designed conform to the web standards.Besides, the content and the view of the websites conform to the web standards are coded separately. So, Google can index the content of the website much more easily and have a better understanding of it. All these make you earn more visitors interested in the content of your website. It helps you reach your goals.As there are less codes in the websites coded conform to the web standards, the file sizes are smaller in comparaison to others. With the file size of your website getting smaller, the bandwith used by your website will also decrease. So, the server costs will decrease and this allows your website to serve much more visitors with the same infrastructure. Your website will be loaded faster because the file sizes are smaller. The users with a slow internet connection will use your website much more confortably.If you design your website conform to the web standards, you will own a cleaner and better structured code system. Thus, to delete the content, to make additions and corrections gets easier. You spend less time for comprehensive changements. Thanks to the structure of your website conform to the web standards, the integration to the different technologies you might want to use in the future will be faster.Experienced designers and organizations whose evaluations about user interface design are considered to be important accord great importance to the web standards.When you apply web galleries to promote your website or when you ask bloggers inside the design community to examine your website, they all first check whether your website is conform to the standards or not. The same situation is also valid for contests to procure you prestige. Because they evaluate your professionnality on how much you understand and apply the standards in industry.Your clients will be happier with a website that is easy to access, lowers the costs, easy to update and to promote. Since the web standards increase the quality of your work you’ll get better references, promise a better service for your potential clients.Naturally, the profits you offer your clients and yourself by understanding and using the standards of industry will make you look more professionnal. With all these, your projects will be more successfull, you will be employed on better earning projects and you will have a better career.Product Designer who talks about startups and design. I’m allways learning and love to help, say hi!

So why is it that, while we proudly promote the importance of practicing user-centered design, we neglect the needs of nearly 20% of our users? The Disability, also referred to as User-centered design is necessarily inclusive design. Designing with awareness of the limitations in how users access products, services and environments not only embraces a diverse audience, but also means that design solutions don’t have a “band-aid” version. Instead, there is one widely useable design that adapts to existing accessibility aids.Technologies and services geared towards users with functional limitations invite innovation. Not only are a growing number of accessibility tools available on most platforms, but new, alternate interaction models are being defined, refined, and applied to “every-day” services.Text-to-speech (TTS) technology, for example, seems unglamorous in concept, but consider that it’s inverse — speech-to-text (STT) — is the foundation for products that rely on speech recognition. Integrating TTS and STT with technologies that detect, interpret, react to, and access additional contextual information turns it into a tool with environmental awareness. Take for example One of the most experimental and advanced areas of interactive innovation is the gaming community, which has embraced the newest technologies in search of the most exciting, realistic and immersive controls for gaming experiences. In the process, they have adopted, and taken to the next level, new kinds of interactive controls. For example, However, as designers we always want to create work that goes beyond minimum expectations. Most of us are familiar with the overwhelming feeling that comes with facing a blank sheet of paper. Introducing constraints, requirements, and conceptual and emotional directions helps shape thoughts into tangible solutions. What is unique about beginning the design process with a limitation in mind is that it challenges the product framework to be more flexible and forces us to use a realistic set of constraints and think outside of the box from the start.We are responsible for being inclusive in our design practices and should recognize both the importance and challenge of pursuing that goal. By becoming aware of the basic steps we can take to ensure that our products are accessible, the design community can push the limits of “best practices” and provide great experiences for everyone.

I recently visited Every piece of the ordering experience, from placing an order at one of it’s 8 iPad kiosks, to receiving your order in a futuristic cubby, is automated.Why is this important? For a fast-food restaurant, can you think of a more critical part of the user experience than ordering? It’s your first impression and can determine how likely you are to come back. The ability to More importantly, replacing the cashier at the point of sale allows Eatsa to track food preferences and deliver personalized food recommendations. Like any product or service, the more you know about your customer’s behavior the better you can deliver experiences that are more personalized, simple, and seamless. The tighter this build-measure-learn loop is, the faster you can try ideas and see which ones win. This strategy allows Eatsa to try new dishes, deals, and customer loyalty programs with unheard of agility.You might say — won’t we miss people taking our orders? At least for the fast-food industry I would give a resounding no. Do we go to fast-food restaurants for face-to-face service? Nope. We go for convenience and speed — and that’s what Eatsa is focused on delivering.Eatsa serves Quinoa, a couscous-like grain that’s cheaper and more environmentally sustainable than meat. You can choose from a variety of designed bowls or create your own. I tried their Bento bowl with stir fried quinoa complete with egg, edamame, crispy wonton strips, teriyaki sauce, miso portabello mushroom, and apple-cabbage slaw. Yes, it was as delicious as it sounds.Eatsa’s data-driven strategy extends into their menu creation. Food scientists have carefully optimized every aspect of the dish, from the way it tastes, to how it smells, to how it feels in your mouth. This has allowed them to create Even the cooking experience has been optimized so that each bowl can be made fresh in just minutes. Cooking takes place with cooks behind the scenes so most people think it’s completely automated. This mystery creates a sense of anticipation and excitement as each cubby goes dark and magically lights up a translucent display with each customer’s name when their order is ready.Will cooks be replaced by robots? Definitely. Companies like For Eatsa, automation has unlocked healthier food that’s cheap and quick with a delightful user experience that keeps customers coming back. Some people think of automation as a cold or robotic but I see it as a opportunity to unlock completely new user experiences.The key is letting great user experience drive the design of the product or service. Many times, people tend to focus too much on technology. Instead, take a different approach. Here’s a few tools you can can use when thinking about how automation might affect your product or service:If you’re interested in how you can rethink experiences checkout the concept we did at Making accelerating technologies beautiful and easy to use. CEO 

Buffer has been hugely successful in building a strong customer experience. In this article, we will dive head first into why breaking tried and tested rules of customer experience has worked for them.A Typical customer experience manager will measure the number of replies or time to resolve the issue when they first talking because they want to make sure the problem is resolved efficiently.On the surface this seems like exactly what you should do. Logically, it makes sense to make sure that customers spend the least amount of time dealing with the problem.But (you knew that was coming) that also means your reps are going to try and close the ticket as quickly as possible irrespective of the customer’s satisfaction with the result.Now, instead of thinking logically, put on your emotional hat. What is the first thing you want somebody to do when your are not happy with them? Acknowledge you and the problem. The longer they it takes for them to address the situation, the angrier you get.So Buffer acknowledges the problem as quickly as possible. They realize that the first step to calm the irritation is not a quick resolution but a quick response. So, they measure the time their happiness hero takes to respond.Most customer service teams struggle with creating an optimal quality-speed trade-off i.e., responding with speed might affect the quality of the service provided and on the other hand higher quality of support means the customers might have longer wait times.To overcome the problem of response time, they ditched the phone. It just wouldn’t scale as they grew. They went all in on social and email for their support. This makes Buffer quick and nimble.Besides, nobody cares about hearing the voice of real human being. Not when all they want is a solution to their problem. An amazing So, now that you are ready to respond quickly, what do you do when you don’t have an answer ready for your customer right away? Read on.A lot of us pretend like we know all the answers. It’s tough to say that you are not all knowledgable. It’s even harder to admit when you are talking to customers.However, it’s okay to say, “I don’t know” as long as you…follow it up with “Let me find out” or some variation of that.This helps you build trust with your customers, but following it up with “Let me find out” will allow to respond with speed and buy you time to provide you quality response.Here’s a great example of how Carolyn does it:Buffer does not differentiate between it’s free and paid users. It provides good customer service to both free and paid members alikeMost companies provide different levels of service or access to customer success teams. They especially ignore free customers.That is a bad idea. The purpose of a freemium plan is to remove barriers to product adoption. This makes the product part of your target customers workflow. This is the hardest part since it means changing user behavior.Good customer support helps the smooth the process of product adoption.A couple other advantages to providing good customer support is that it will eventually plateau ever as your user base grows. This is because with experience, you will have not only have a clear and comprehensive FAQ but you will also have made improvements to your products to overcome these issues.Make your employees story part of your company’s story. Now you are going, huh?!Have you seen how everybody knows something about most of the buffer employees. They are all part of the Buffer’s story.You are always learning and hearing about them on their open buffer blog and their weekly improvement updates. They are either being talked about or they are talking with their customers.This is an important practice because it’s the So, doing a monthly series showcasing your employees once in a while is not going to make a company seem more human. It’s definitely not going to build trust or loyalty.Buffer surprised a lot of their customers by being honest when they were hacked. The reason competitors cannot copy this is because they don’t have a culture of transparency.Buffer was not only open about company details but the employees too were equally transparent about their lives at the company. As a result, they had built trust and a reputation of being both smart and caring.So, when something went drastically wrong, customers were very understanding because they sympathized with the company. If you are a company that has been closed off and suddenly opens up, people will be suspicious and wary of your motives.It’s similar to how people would behave if hard times fell upon you or if you were accused wrongly. “You’ll know who your friends are” is a cliche for a very good reason. People who know you well will stand by you even if you have made a mistake. People who don’t know you well will distance themselves from you because they can’t form a sound judgement.User experience is focussed on designing and providing smooth experiences with the product.Whereas service design is focussed on providing customer experience based on the context of the situation while using the product.So, not only do they provide you the tools, but they have a comprehensive FAQ page with strong UI. They also write content to help you create even better content for social media — like tools to create images, comprehensive list of words that convert well.They will even email you a few popular links you can share especially if you haven’t used the product for a while. They understand that the reason you might not be sharing is you just haven’t found the resources.They offer you resources and the ability to add your own feeds to make it easy for you share. They are building tools within their tool because the understand the context of how the user uses the product.They extend the same thinking to their customer support and other aspects of both the product and the company.How do you feel even before you have to call for customer support. Frustrated? You generally want to avoid that call.Daniel Gilbert, professor of psychology and author of the book Carolyn and her team at Buffer understand this dynamic and so So, there you have it — 8 things you can do today to build a positive customer experience. Try a few and tell us how it goes.Web analytics, marketing  startups.

We are all talking about sexy interactions, so, how about the experience?You probably have seen this video:Technology is evolving crazily fast, thanks to which, we have been exploring and experimenting more advanced interactions, from Touch Gestures, Siri, Now and Cortana, Face Recognition, and even I am a huge fan of those new and sexy interactions. Using technology to actualize the potential of human body, in a way that makes life easier and more beautiful — it sounds more than sexy. I cannot count how many studies and articles coming out these years about the happiness and mental health towards this Internet era. Yes, even we are unhappy and lonely, we cannot blame technology or anything else. While, it leads me to think about the experience more than the interactions that technology can bring to us.Since software is eating the world and since the bay area is a world of products, since I am a product designer and since we are all talking about user experience…We are all talking about user experience. We are saying, it should not only be useful and beautiful but also pleasant; we are saying, design for emotion; we are saying, we should craft small details in order to delight users even though they are hard to notice…We human makes tools to meet our needs.At the very beginning, we made tools to help us survive, and make a living — either using the stone to make fire or covering the body with leaves to keep warm. Later on, we made tools to walk faster, cook faster, work faster… and eventually replace human labor. While, even today, we are creating product as tools, like apps, to help us accomplish tasks, and make life more efficient and easier.Not only care about the tool itself but put the tool into an ecosystem, to consider the system in a whole when designing products — it is where we started to think about the experience. We even make the service one step further — integrated service — not separate different services, instead, connect them in a way that service human needs more smoothly and efficiently. See Google’s Just name a few, and you can get the idea — Apple’s When I was trying to describe the best experience I have experienced, a Psychology term coming to my mind —It is the best experience I can name, it is the experience that meets the highest human needs — We human is born to dance, it is the nature of dance that Let’s see the characteristics of the dance class, and then think about how we can apply them into creating better product experience.Dance requires extreme focus. I am phoneless, and only with my body while dancing. It is hard to live without information nowadays, while, sometimes, I really want to be free from information, instead of being kidnapped by it all the time. Focus, focus, focus, and fully commit to one thing at a time. When I am fully into swinging my body with energetic music, my mind doesn’t have any space for negative thoughts and bad feelings. What’s more, once my mind is much clearer, it has more space for deep thoughts and fresh ideas.The instructor will add new dances gradually, mixing old with new ones each time. As is known, self-confidence can be increased from learning a new skill, same as learning new dances.It is not always easy. In fact, it is a bit hard since the dance class is designed to be more like dancing together than being taught how to dance step by step. We are learning by dancing, and dancing from learning. The good thing of a mixture of familiar and unfamiliar dances is that it reduces the occurring upset when unfamiliar dances are too challenging for someone to learn.And, you’ll never be bored :)We do want to give users new things to meet their (new) needs, and users also do like new things. While, balancing between not pushing too much and making products better by adding new features requires a lot of decision-making. A good example here is Instagram.You cannot solve the problem in one day. A product should focus on a very specific pain point at the beginning. Then, it should be continually improved from the learnings from users and the emerging technology. Step by step, achieve the big mission gradually.Please don’t try to teach and give users everything during the onboarding process, with the expectation that users will learn everything from your tutorial which is almost impossible. The fact is that a big number of users choose to skip those good-looking screens.Show the values and benefits to users at first. Design the onboarding process into something that can inform, attract and engage users as much as possible.Educate users gradually and in context — knowing when they need, what they need and how much they need etc. The onboarding of Facebook Paper is really amazing.I cannot imagine what it feels like if I dance alone (I never did, also because I don’t have that kind of dance room, sigh…). I am sure I still can get much happiness, while probably less than I can get from the dance class. I dance with a lot of others. However, I don’t know many people’s names. I always come to the dance class alone, but I am always not alone while dancing. Enjoy the freedom and excitement together during the dance time, that’s enough, for us.The power of connecting human together, while not interrupting private space, enjoying ourselves individually, while still being infected by others’ happiness, is such a magic.Honestly speaking, I feel sick seeing a social feature almost every time trying out a new app. There is a time that the social feature is like a default. It seems like the social feature is added without any thoughtful intention.Seriously, do we really need it everywhere? Does it really benefit everyone? If it does no good to improve the experience or even will possibly do some harm, please, please, please think again. Keep the problem, the user needs and the goals in mind, and make a better decision.Imagine if we are dancing without music… Horrible! Music has so many powers and magics (I probably can write another post about music lol).I cannot dance without music, even, I cannot live without music.Small details can bring big values. Since we already have been digging into and crafting micro-interactions, how about the sounds that being used in the products? Click, drag, move, delete, open, close, increase, decrease, follow, send, search, alert… Is there any possibility to design better sounds that can potentially improve the experience? Yes, I think (we can do nothing for the user with hearing loss, feel sorry for that.).A great example — the “Like” button of Facebook MessengerWhen you click and hold on it, it will become larger and larger, along with a very cute and funny sound. Please try it by yourself, it’s fun!Product Designer in love with HCI+Design+PsychologyThoughts around design and product from Nina Wei

I tweeted about this a while back and it seemed like a worthy topic to spend some time writing a bit more.If you design software long enough, you’ll hear mention of a particular type of user called a ‘power user’. The bad part is that the statements involving them almost never include accompanying data, just assumptions about how these types of users prefer to do things. It’s statements such as…Or…Usually, you’ll hear grunts of agreement afterwards…☺This is all fine and good as long as you have done due dilligence to define exactly what a power user is and what their motivations are, and all that good UX stuff. But I would assert that until you have a persona fleshed out, power users don’t exist, except in fleeting internal company meetings, which usually have nothing to do with real people! ;)Most of the time, a power user is actually someone internal to your company, like someone on QA who has tested the product extensively. But you’re usually not building products for your internal teams, and those kinds of users may no longer remember what the product is like for new users. So we can really just eliminate them entirely.Second to that, power users Lastly, we could use my friend Jonathan’s definition to describe power users…But as I responded to him, isn’t that just overcoming a bad design? Don’t get me wrong. These are definitely the types of customers you want because they will stick with you (seemingly) despite all your flaws and imperfections. But succeeding in the face of some flawed UI shouldn’t bestow titles like ‘power user’ upon anyone. So I think we can eliminate them as well.So where does that leave us?…you don’t need to worry about it! The best way to resolve this issue is to focus on the known use cases. Who are the people you’re making your product for and why do they need what you’re making? Get specific too. Don’t just settle on By focusing on the specific people you want to reach, you can be much more confident that you’re actually solving a real problem, and not just dancing around some made up scenario like ‘power users’. That doesn’t help anyone.In the end, ‘power users’ are a myth. They’re a made up use case that deserves none of your team’s time and energy unless you can actually get specific about who they are, what they do, and most importantly, why. When you do that, you will most likely find that these types of users fit into existing personas (assuming you have them), which just goes to further demonstrate how these types of users really don’t exist.Almost assuredly, you will still hear the words come up in discussion, so don’t worry. The concept isn’t going anywhere. But instead of changing important decisions about your product based on a mythical user, stay focused on the goal of providing real people something of value 

I had an odd experience meeting Don Norman — the man who coined phrases like “user experience” and “user-centered design.” It happened while I was in graduate school. I passed him unnoticed in the hallway on my way to the student lounge. At the door to the student lounge I put in my magnetic-strip key and watched for the security light to turn from red to green which indicates that the door is unlocked and ready to be opened — or so I thought.As soon as I removed my key a voice came from behind me saying, “Why did you insert your key?” I whirled around to notice Don standing right behind me watching me attentively and posing this question. I explained to him that the door requires a security key. He retorted, “Not during the day. The door is unlocked from 8 am to 5 pm.” I turned around to look at the door. The security light had returned to glowing red. I grasped the handle and pulled the door open. I (and many other design students) had been inserting our keys all along just because the red light made us think that the door was locked when in reality it never was.In Don’s book the As a consultant that employs user-centered design principles every day, I have come to realize that this phrase has an inherent problem (and I’m sure Don would agree with me). The problem is the word “user.” Don has himself said that generic words like “user,” “customer,” and “consumer” are derogatory terms because they are so unfeeling and generic. They lack any specificity on who is actually using the product or service. In fact, the only other profession that uses the term “user” is drug trafficking. That should be evidence enough of just how derogatory a term it is to apply to our products and services.Since Don coined the phrase “user-centered design,” other forms of centric design have emerged like “goal-centered design” and “activity-centered design” which are all slight variations along the same theme. In some cases (though it generally results in poor design) device-centered design is used as is the case with light switches. Rather than pressing a button to set the mood of the room for the desired activity, we flip on switches to various lights — each switch designed for a specific light.Even though these centric design forms follow the same vein, changing that one word can have a big impact on how we approach the design process. That one word will frame in our minds the focus of our product or service. It is crucial to get that one word right.I propose that we escape the syndrome of centering design (or any other business activity) around generic terminology but instead tailor our approach to the actual people using our service or product. I call this approach ______-centered design (pronounced “blank-centered design”).Just to make my point clear, I will share some concrete examples of how ______-centered design can be used.USAA is a Fortune 500 financial service company based in San Antonio that primarily services the military. They are well known for their customer service which is the envy of many companies. I think one reason they are able to have such excellent customer service is because they don’t think of their customers as “customers.” They don’t even use the word “customer.” Instead USAA refers to their customers as “members.” The reason for this terminology stems from their legal structure. USAA is an inter-insurance exchange and not a corporation. This means that the customers of USAA have pooled together their assets to insure each other and are therefore members of the firm. This subtle but significant change in words has had a huge impact on how USAA approaches its business. In the case of USAA, “member-centered design” would be a much better approach than user-centered design. Modifying “user” to “member” instantly imbues an understanding by USAA’s employees. It adds a level of empathy and feeling.Another example is that of eBay. Most people think of the customer for eBay being people who shop on eBay. However, eBay is a two-sided marketplace that connects buyers with sellers. Buyers will only come to the site if on the other side of the equation there are sellers. Throughout its history eBay has repeatedly switched emphasis from buyers to sellers, then back to buyers, and so forth. In eBay’s case, they should develop an approach of buyer-centered design and seller-centered design. Notice that instead of one form of design, eBay will have two. It may even be more than that. EBay has several tiers of sellers in terms of annual sales volume. Some sellers are already major retailers like Home Depot or Disney while others are people like me that sell random items taking up space in our closets on eBay. Each tier may require a different approach. I would caution us on proliferating too many terms and approaches within a company but I would rather see more companies erring on being too specific than too generic since generalizations is the norm today.Align Technology is most well known for its Invisalign product. Invisalign is basically a plastic mouthpiece that over time realigns teeth without the need for braces or cumbersome retainers. Early on in Align’s history they focused on the “customers” or the people buying the service. What they neglected to understand is that their customers are patients and require patient-centered design. For dental patients, their orthodontists are a major influencer. If an orthodontist recommends a product to their patients, then their patients are far more likely to buy it. Orthodontists pride themselves on their taxing education, rigorous examinations, and coveted certifications. Align’s founders had no dental background or accreditations and therefore lacked credibility. The founders attempted to make Invisalign’s certification as easy as possible. They also did not seek out expert opinions or studies. Instead they simply received FDA approval and started marketing their product to the “end user.” Given the lack of orthodontist-centered design, orthodontists resisted adopting and recommending Invisalign. Today Align has learned how to design for patients and orthodontists. We can only imagine how much easier their journey would have been had they initially assessed who they were designing for.A lot of my clients hire me to develop systems and processes for internal “employees” and quite often we use the word “employees” but unfortunately this is also a generic term. Disney has shown that it is possible to be more specific even in internal cases. When you visit a Disney theme park, you will not hear or see the word “employee.” Instead the words “cast member” are used. This small and subtle change again has a monumental mind shift in the experience. The word “engineer” is replaced by the Disney-fabricated word “imagineer” which instantly gives us a better idea of the goal of this role. In this example, we see that the terminology doesn’t even have to be an existing word — as long as it provides more specifics and empathy.I’m not so worried that companies create a terminology for their design approach around their customers but that they avoid generic, derogatory words. Only use customer, user, consumer, subject, etc. when talking at the macro level about theory (as I just did in this sentence). If you are a hotel, use the word “guest.” If you are a car sharing or taxi service, use the words “passenger” and “driver.” When discussing a specific feature, process, service, industry, company, or department use the words that have deep and specific meaning.On a crusade to redefine collaboration  productivity experiences. Design consultant 

I think my favourite thing about Pokemon X and Y is how Nintendo have made obvious strides in improving the features that were originally supposed to sell the series: trading and battling with other people.In the old days, you would have to do this by link cable. Either you or the other person would have to Then the Nintendo DS came along, and there was some improvements with this; however, you still had to exchange friend codes with people, be at the Pokemon Centre at the right time, make sure that both friends were on unprotected or WEP wifi (believe me, this made a big difference as more networks changed to WPA or WPA2 security, which the NDS couldn’t run), save, go into the room, talk to the relevant person in the room, then go.With the 3DS, this process has been made simpler; you add the person’s friend code once per system, instead of per-game. Once you connect on the bottom screen, your friends list is automatically populated and you can see so much about them without having to ask to pair. You see their clothes change, profiles get updated and can send them O-Powers without having to send them a Tweet/Facebook message saying “Hey, can I do this?”Then, when you want to trade or battle, one ping sends a request to pair, and you can even talk over voice; even with Animal Crossing, I would often connect over Skype, as the in-game typing was extremely limited.Then you just… Saving was quick and easy, and I could do the whole act from the middle of a route. No special occasion, no needing to go out of my way; it was as simple as something that was offline.And I think that’s what we’re getting as time goes on; technology and infrastructure are advancing to the point where we’re no longer getting hampered by them in the pursuit of an ideal experience.It will be interesting to see how the future will take advantage of this.Supervising Editor for theScore eSports. Writes about life, gaming and cups of tea.

The hamburger menu pattern has gotten a lot of bad press in the design community over the past few months. Most of the negative attention it’s garnering relates to usability issues like lower discoverability, information not being glancable and that it clashes with other navigation patterns. Worst of all, it allows for complacence, leading to a sloppy information architecture.For me though, it brings to light a different issue entirely; it makes scaling in apps and adding features Need a to add a new navigation 6 months down the line? Easy, stick it in the hamburger menu. It acts as an easy way to scale an app without compromising the overall look and feel.Building software with scalability in mind seems like a logical choice for most companies, I would argue however, that software should be built for its current purpose, without scalability in mind. It seems counterintuitive, but it’s the right thing to do. It means that adding features down the line will need to be a We’re at a time when apps and software are becoming more and more focused. Successful companies who previously took the kitchen sink approach have done a u-turn and are now decoupling features to create entirely separate experiences. Foursquare has separated its “checking in” function to Swarm. Facebook created Messages (and many other apps), Path just released Talk.Maybe that feature you want to add 6 months down the line won’t fit into your focussed, not-easily-scalable design. But more importantly —User Experience Designer at AJSmart, writer at 

But in reaction to further ratcheting up of customer expectations many companies, large and small, have seen the need to quickly rethink how they present themselves in the interconnected physical/digital environment often referred to as the omni-channel experience.Over the last several years, I have worked with Fortune 100 retailers, service companies, and other digital groups looking to meet their customers in a new way and to be cohesive across this landscape. I want to share what I have learned — sometimes the hard way — and help you to get off on the right foot.To that end, I’ve created a punch list of sorts that shares a few principles from my experiences you should check in on when you get started and while you are on the path:Keep in mind that these aren’t a low bar but I’ve seen that the work put into these behind the scenes team and company elements will, often more than the digital work itself, lead to your success or foreshadow your failure. Not meeting these out of the gate is not a reason to avoid getting started, but they are meant to serve as a guidepost to keep your focus on so your project doesn’t slide sideways on you.When senior leaders, designers, and technologists from very different in-store and digital camps are responsible for separate channels of a business, there are bound to be differing views of what it will take to be successful. Heck, even defining what successful means is a complicated endeavor.A comfortable trap is created when your leaders and stakeholders nod their heads and say,You could stop and bask in your newly found concrete answer, but in this new omni-channel frontier, it takes the next level of persistence. You must ask, “Why?”, and, “What do you mean by that?”, to uncover the meaningful nuggets that lie underneath:or,or,The game here is not to necessarily get everyone agree on one goal; that’s not possible. Instead, you must cut through the tempting agreeable nowheres by asking why, and to get each unstated goal on paper or on a big white board in front of the team, then playing them back to the leaders of all channels as a mantra going forward. Then, and only then, will you have a chance at solving these problems and becoming successful.This work in its essence is about seamless transitions between disparate parts of your company. People, processes, or technology too rooted in one channel will vastly limit your ability to progress.Listen intently during one of your meetings for omni-channel initiatives. Ifare the type of comments often heard, reframe the question:You’ll likely get a very different answer — often a quick answer — that starts with, “Of course they would want..”, and usually has at least one “but” in the response. These are signs that the team sees limits in what they can affect that you, as a leader, can help remove.Focus on building a team that can see the light at the end of the tunnel that is guided by the customer. The right team will tirelessly ask the question,to the enabling channel teams until it is done and done right, with no regard to the walls of the organizational silos they are walking through. Applaud small wins in these areas; it takes a lot to overcome organizational inertia, but once you get going, there will be no stopping you.Creating user experience in this new connected space is hard when you’ve created successful in independent digital or physical work in the past, you need a team ready to leave their preconceptions at the door. You need a strong, multidisciplinary team of researchers, designers, product developers, and technologists ready to get in the trenches to find out what the customer wants. You need to build a team that clearly puts the user first, builds prototypes fast, and has methods to show the user new ideas until something hits. The best team members work outside of traditional role boundaries: think designers that build, technologists that concept, product managers that sketch, all with focus on discovering what the user wants.Take a page from Nordstrom who created a ‘flash-mob’ of sorts with their innovation team, swarming their sunglasses department with designers, product builders and developers. They iteratively built an iPad app to help customers pick the best sunglasses and tested it with real customers in real time, spending time refining features that mattered to the customer and quickly discarding those that did not.With a team like this and a bias toward your user, be it the consumer or in-store employee, your potential for success will go up dramatically.The technology team’s charter commonly given by the business teamssimply will not work for this environment. In order to deliver integrated omni-channel, the technology team will need to break through barriers they’ve avoided both consciously and subconsciously in the past. As a leader in this work, there will be many times you must encourage the technology team in pushing the boundaries, from the complexity of privacy or security, to pure, “We don’t normally do it that way”, thinking. The way the networks work, which devices are chosen, what you can and can’t access on those devices, which databases are the data being pulled from, if the service is real-time or has a lag, are all so critical to the end product. The answers don’t vary much when you are only working on the digital or physical sides of the world, but do vary dramatically when you are blending these worlds. Be sure to ask even the simplest of questions like,The answer you’ll get will likely not be so simple. Complexity being put on your customer will spring up where you least expect it and you need to be there to question it at every turn.Warby Parker, the innovative start-up eyeglasses maker, just recently ventured into these waters aiming to move into physical retail but do it their way. They emphasized paying only when the product was shipped and keeping a single always-on history of all interactions and custom preferences for each customer at their employee’s fingertips or on any digital touch point. Today’s in-the-box retail point of sale software just doesn’t cut it here; it is rooted in a single channel, mass commerce world. Warby Parker took the plunge to create custom software to get out of single channel thinking and emphasized creating the customer experience that is right for their brand. The team realized that the point of sale software is the experience not just a tool to purchase from the lowest bidder. They are making a bet that in the end the costs of delivering this heightened experience will define the company for its consumer making it well worth the price of admission.Be ready to support your technology team to do the complex work needed by escalating to their leadership, re-defining a security policy for a new age, changing the way the networks works in the store, challenge the status quo and so much more. To make it work for the customer, much will be needed and those decisions will come to define the experience you deliver.You may have heard this before, and maybe it’s cliché, but I’ve never worked in a space where this is more critical. Keep a working version of your omni-channel product in your hands at all times, no matter if the current version is just a bunch of stories, a paper prototype, or real code. Walk around with it and ask yourself,Too often when you work on hot trendy things like omni-channel that are on a hype cycle, just the fact you are doing something new will keep you moving forward and excited. However, your customers couldn’t care less what you call it or how cool it makes you; they just want something that is helpful, simple, and really works. Being the leader in your team who looks at where you are, stands back, and asks the hard questions will help the team win, regardless of how it feels in the moment. Swim against the current, and say what needs to be said when it needs to be said, even if it’s,Up until now, you’ve aligned the stars: the disparate teams and leaders have the same direction and goals, you’ve got the technologists and designers on board working across previous borders, and you’ve tested an idea with your customer and they like it. There is one piece that I’ve seen often taken for granted, however, and it is the largest definer of successfulness versus mediocrity.Be ready to spend inordinate amounts of time pouring over the critical points where your new omni-channel digital experiences transition between people and the physical and digital realm, otherwise known as the on and off ramps of your connected experience.Every successful cross-channel experience I have seen was suggested at just the right moment by an in-store associate, linked by a related digital experience or integrated noticeably and on purpose into the physical environment. How your work shows up here in the last mile between you and your customer, is the key to success or failure.Plopping a new tool at the end of an aisle without coordinating what it is for, why you’re doing this, and how it works is effectively inviting your tool to be thrown into the dustbin. The prevailing conversation stemming from that will be,both of which will be true. Training your in-store associates is one essential approach to be sure, but empowered associates that understand how a tool can be helpful will be the first to show it to a customer.Apple has delivered the last-mile integration well with EasyPay in their Apple Store app. In every instance I have witnessed the Apple associate is the first to mention to the consumer they can pay with their phone right where they stand, seamlessly integrated into the conversation. There is no surprise payment device attached to the conventional cash register that you can “use if you want to”, no forced “would you like to pay with your phone today” that comes off as inauthentic. Just a simple in-context mention of a feature that equally benefits the customer and associate by saving them time. Do this right and your employees will own the experience, they will be your live demo and on ramp to usage, especially if the tool helps the associate get their job done fast. You’ll be a hero, and they will be selling your work to customers and their leadership.In short, a coordinated, well-thought-out plan for the steps leading to the use of your new experience and the steps that follow will pay dividends for the future. Let it be the difference between technology that really connects with your customers in this new omni-channel future, and technology that gets dusted more times than used.Thanks for reading. -BenLeader, Digital + Mobile Strategy to Execution. 

Everyone agrees that nowadays user or customer experience is a key competitive advantage for organisations and products. In order to have a truly outstanding user experience, we need to have a comprehensive understanding of our users. Therefore, product design should be informed by a deep knowledge of the user needs and goals.Although many companies prefer to focus on quantitative data and statical analysis to make informed design decisions, the ideal solution is to include also qualitative data-driven processes that help embracing the complexity of the user perspective.Part of this qualitative data gathering and making it actionable implies the ability to recognise and share feelings and thoughts that are being experienced by someone else (the user). And what is that?Empathy is not a fluffy soft skill anymore, it’s the key ingredient for product innovation and success.Empathy is the ability to recognise and being able to share others person perspective. It is a question of engagement, real engagement, not the one by convention or protocol or the fake smile just to please someone.According to There are different types of empathy: it doesn’t mean only putting yourself in other person shoes but also means understanding what other people thinks and feels and acknowledging it even if it’s different from what you think.Although many may think that you need to born with this trait, empathy can actually be learned and trained.In Besides being a trait that can be trained, as Now, we are talking about strategic empathy. It’s a two-folded concept: on one hand, strategic empathy at work means motivating people through shared emotional connections to deliver a vision. On the other hand, empathy allows you to understand what users want, and by giving them what they want, they will use/buy your product and you’ll profit from it.In her bookThis post had its start point on 2 really good books about empathy: While the first one explores empathy in the context of work and collaboration; the second is about the importance of empathy in the business world and how it can drive profit.So, what about the relationship between empathy and design?By being empathetic with your co-workers and users, when designing how a persons interacts with your product you’ll support the intents of the user and the product will feel more intuitive and right to them.In the next article, I’m going to give you an overview of ux techniques that help to create empathy when designing products.Stay tuned!UX Designer. Favourite topics: #UXResearch, #Usability, #UX, #Design, #Travel #WomeninTech.

Yesterday someone asked me this. I gave a humble answer, which I feel is wholesomely true, working with children with Autism for 3 years gave me tons of experience in loving and fighting for others every day before myself; but, I just wasn’t satisfied with that answer.I left the conversation feeling incomplete. I didn’t want to speak about me putting others ahead of myself 2 years ago, I wanted to speak of me doing that today.Call me an angel? (I mean, I won’t stop you)Better: I mean, I know its fun and cool and interesting and all to design things for the web. It’s never boring connecting with others and watching them interact with software while you learn about how they think about the world. Yes, that is absolutely exciting.But, that’s not really the point now, is it?User Experience practitioners are not just Psychologist Techies mapping the way for developers sitting behind a screen. They are a bridge between people and other people, and often times an advocate for the people fiddling with software that was supposed to help them but has now taken up 2 hours of their life trying to figure out when they really wanted to be outside with their kids at the park by now but if they could only just figure out where that button went and what this label means I mean, just at least how to get this thing to work “Ahhhh!”Lets be honest here, not everyone wants to do the work it takes to create a User Experience that helps people out. Sometimes that takes extra work on everyones side. Sometimes that takes what CEO’s might call a “risk” and what Project Managers might call “time we don’t have”.I’ve heard many things I would consider insults across the board. Simple comments like:These make me squirm.Having a hard time working with software that says “easy to use” on the box does not make users less than anything, it makes the companies building the software guilty of not doing their jobs.Tools of a User Experience designer are not The biggest motivator for me as a User Experience Designer is that I know I won’t allow myself to fail, just the same way I know that going into the room getting ready to do a session with a beautiful little kiddo with Autism. These people are looking to you to help them, people are relying on you and sharing their hope with you. After I’ve done some User Research and concluded a really insightful and connected talk with a User, I feel very close to them. I want to fix it all for them. I’m ready.So, after I finished that conversation yesterday and I replayed it back in my head I thought,That’s what a UX professional is. We are advocates who put ourselves in a potentially unpopular position, informing our team of things that our team may not want to hear, suggesting they do things they may not want to do, and communicating to others how users are HUMANS and why that matters.Designer of experiences. Researcher of human behavior. Empowered by life’s mysteries, just looking to solve them.The role of design and innovation in all aspects of life, business, and technology

You browse a website. It has great typography. The color scheme is impeccable. You just bought a new pair of shoes with one click and you’ll be the most fashionable person at the party. Who’s the culprit? No, it’s not the web designer and surprisingly it’s not the team of engineers. The true culprits of your enjoyable experience are specialized freaks called user experience designers. Unlike engineering, their work is empathetic to the user’s needs. Their approach is conscious and intentional, and ensures that they take every possibility of a user’s action into account. You’d also be surprised that their approach is multilayered and goes beyond aesthetics. Of course, aesthetics play an important role but user experience designers break down the user experience into five crucial components- the elements of user experience.The elements are a needy crew. They build upon each other, “informing and influencing of the user experience”(Garrett 20).Each plane is dependent upon the planes below it. Chaos ensues when these planes aren’t aligned. Deadlines are missed. Prices increase exponentially. Users are dissatisfied(Garrett 22). It’s just a series of unfortunate events. Decisions made on the strategy plane affect every plane up the chain and cause a ripple effect, and the decisions designers make on each plane affect the planes below it.These planes are interdependent. They work together and decisions on lower planes must be made before higher planes are addressed. Work on lower planes must be finished or the whole project will be chaotic.Strategy holds the other planes up. It is their rock. Their main squeeze. It’s the foundation of a successful user experience. It is the first step that determines what the users want out of their experience. The strategy plane includes reaching business goals, brand identity, and success metrics. All of these objectives are neccessary for a successful website. Higher planes depend on the strategy’s structure. Without a well executed strategy, the entire project will be in jeopardy.This may be the only dependent relationship I condone.

Retention just isn’t the skill it used to be as the cost of forgetting diminishes. Pub trivia isn’t as fun with the invention of the iPhone and Google is a verb in a way “I’ll just library it” could never be.What do you do when you can’t remember something? Is it the same thing you did 20 years ago? Will it be the same 20 years from now?The world (watch out for the cliché) is changing. I have access to the wealth of all human knowledge in my iPhone. I might not understand it but it’s there. When I was at school how smart you were or rather how smart your exam results said you were came down to your ability to retain information. This wasn’t arbitrary, in a world pre-internet if you couldn’t commit knowledge to memory it was lost to you the minute you closed the textbook. In the workforce it was to your advantage to be able to recall large amounts of information from memory as the cost of acquiring forgotten information was high. Knowledge was written on paper, filed alphabetically and trapped by geographic location. There were limited copies, bound in a single order and then dated. Destined to become irrelevant as time went by.This has now obviously changed. The Internet has removed the need for linear navigation and crude filing systems. Online content can simultaneously exists in any location with an internet connection and be updated anytime. It is hard to over exaggerate just how disruptive this change is to the way we navigate and interact with the world.So this leads you to a question. At what point does the rate of change become so steep that knowledge starts to become a hindrance? What if information could be updated so often and accessed so easily that it was safer to make decisions based on realtime information rather than memorised information.If this sounds like science fiction, consider that just 53 years after the Wright brothers made the first human flight the Russians put the first man in space and they did it with less computing power than the iPad I’m writing this on.The purpose of schooling needs to change from retention to acquisition. The information is in their pocket and on their desk so they don’t need to remember it they just need to be able to find it, distil meaning from it and then use it.Now just before we start criticising the younger generations as being lazy or reflecting on the good old days when everyone had the time to make it through a thick book. Take a moment to consider just how scary this concept really is. We are asking people to become experts on multiple advanced topics in ever shortening periods of time using tools that have yet to be invented. Facts on Monday could well be myths on Tuesday.If you think the rate of change is quick now wait until people get good at it.When thinking about how the world is changing I think of when I got my first computer in the 90’s. It came with a 200 page user manual and could do less then my current phone. My phone came with no user manual at all but somehow I could still use it. This is because if you were to limit the features on my phone to how many pages of manual I could reasonably read and memorise then there would be a limit to how much my phone could ever do. Better to spend that time making the phone so easy and intuitive to use, that I don’t need a manual at all. This takes the human bottle neck off technalogical innovation and shows us the true value of creating the best possible User Experience.Maybe to facilitate a world becoming evermore complex and powerful we have to get rid of the instruction manuals, the textbooks and the libraries. Maybe what we need is for life’s user interface to be improved so instructions are contextual, instant and simple. Maybe the last 100 years have been like my 90’s computer in which students were required to spend 13 years in school learning how to use it. Then maybe just maybe the next 100 years will be more like my phone and we will make it so easy to use and navigate that we will spend our lives learning.Forming opinions 140 characters at a timeThoughts on how we can design better learning resources for education

A well analysed poor user experience. The alarm function of my iPhone is the most frustrating — not because it is the most objectively painful, but because it is the most I would suggest a slight amendment to the proposed solution, however, as it has the unfortunate impact of increasing the effort to reach some numbers by as much as 100%. A slight gap, requiring greater than usual effort to move past, could remove the bulk of errors whilst maintaining ease of use:I’m sure this would break Apple’s consistency guidelines. Mind you, I’m unsure as to why it was decided that their standard ‘dropdown box’ interface was the most appropriate for an input with 60 different options in the first place.Lover of design, thirsty for knowledge and understanding, appreciator of beauty, aspiring to be one who creates value.

How do you attract your potential users? It’s one of the most frequently asked questions of the app developers. To answer that, you must know 5 important user growth metrics:If you want to make a good product, you must pay attention to Activation  Retention metrics. After “happy” experience, users will come back again and again. However, you need an analytic tool to track and optimize user experience.Acquisition  Referral are the essential metrics for marketing the product. Users come from different sources you need to know. Knowing these sources gives you leverage about how you spend your limited resources to get users.Make a great app your users love and track their referrals. They will spread the word and it is the key of the organic growth.Also, it is important to measure Revenue  Profitability of the application. You must know which users conduct some monetization behaviour. So, you can focus on your star users and try to make them happier.You need data and great understanding about your users. Via Real-time mobile application analytics for the entire customer lifecycle with event-based analytics, heat map analytics and gesture recognition!

Interaction designer @ Angi StudioWe love designing things  people love to use 

You can view it as an Apple vs Google move if you wish, but the plain fact is that the user experience on most major (and minor) web sites is atrocious.What should be 50–60k of content is surrounded by megabytes upon megabytes of banner ads, pop-overs, pop-unders, interstitials, embedded auto-playing video, tracking scripts, and other forms of “rich” media content designed to grab and track attention in any way it can.Keep in mind that Apple only enabled the capability for ad blocking in Safari.And Apple isn’t forcing its users to download those apps. So the fact that ad blockers are currently first, second, and third in the paid app category should tell you all you need to know about just how many users happen to agree with them.And death of the web? Mmmm… perhaps the web as we know it today.But given the current state of affairs, I’m not really sure that’s a bad thing, after all.

This past weekend, I finally finished watching I quickly drew a story map in my head and tried explaining how the entire third season didn’t contribute enough to the core message/storyline and it should have been streamlined for an improved user journey. (I believe that every television series/movie takes us on a journey.) Don’t get me wrong, I completely admire Michael’s keen observation skills, but whatever happened to President Caroline? I was already thinking of other succinct ways to tell the same story.All of this made me very aware that I have been subconsciously evaluating every experience I am going through on a daily basis. I get excited about the tiniest updates to the apps on my phone. I am the first one to notice that YouTube changed the way it lists videos on the Android app. And it’s not limited to digital experiences; I become deliriously happy when I receive good customer service and really angry when a spa can’t figure out an efficient way to answer its phones.I think Design Researchers have a soft spot for people in general. It’s because of their innate quality to empathize with fellow human beings — they connect easily and understand people better. Before getting into UX Research as a profession, I worked as a Leather Designer. Spending most of my time in research and theme/story creation; I needed to have reasoning behind every texture I used in my designs. In 2011, I was selected for a project in which I got to travel across India, interviewing people. In brief conversations of 15 minutes, I experienced people opening up and telling me their deepest desires and fears. I must say, those interviews were some of the best times of my life. I mean, I enjoyed them so much that I changed career paths!One of my dear friends used to say, “Nidhi, it feels like you have ‘Come tell me your story’ written on your forehead.” I used to giggle, not realizing that soon I would ask that question for a living. I could not imagine being this happy to be a User Experience Researcher. But, I love being able to put myself in someone else’s shoes and understand their pain points as if they were mine. It makes me happy that I get to help create better experiences for people.P.S.: Please get in touch if you want to hear more about my views on other day-to-day experiences or TV series, I am pretty sure I will have an opinion.Usability Researcher  Strategist | Loves Tea  Travel

Find a friend who’s been imbibing already and have them test it out Or, if you don’t have any tipsy friends near you (and you’re safely at home), crack open a few cold ones yourself and take note of any hiccups in the user flow of your design.The folks from Make sure your “groundbreaking design” isn’t so different that you have to explain to the user how to use the product’s core feature more than once; user-first design should be your daily mantra.A journalist-turned   project manager-turned  baby Ruby on Rails developer. Leaving random breadcrumbs that leave people asking, “So what do you do again?”

I have membership in many Google Groups and receive a lot of emails from those groups during a day. Being member of many groups helped me to discover a pattern recently:Half of the people thinks their reply worth to send everyone in the group and other half thinks people should not use “Reply All” button at all. Also, some people want to receive everyone’s thoughts about that specific topic.As far as I know, Google Groups doesn’t have any “Follow the topic” feature which is really needed.There could be a link called “Follow this topic” which will appear at the bottom of the first email and let you follow the topic and receive “Reply All” emails from that specific topic.I hope it was clear for all of you. I also hope, people who is responsible of improving Google products’ user experience could see this and solve the problem.I don’t worry.

Many software companies face an interesting dilemma with marketing. Products are increasingly designed to adapt to the needs of a variety of potential users, and UX drives decisions about design and architecture. For example, an enterprise staffing software might aim to design accurate, reliable systems and interfaces that make corporate recruiting as effective and painless as possible. Ideally, the UX/UI is adaptable and extendable, so that the platform itself does not need to be rebuilt at each deployment. While the product itself might recognize the two or three or more consumer channels that it is connecting, marketing efforts probably look like a predictable mix of media buying, PPC, social posting on major platforms and half-hearted attempts at blogging.When a company creates a user-oriented product but then launches a generic marketing effort, they cause two important problems: 1) limited discoverability of the quality of their solution and 2) reduction in the ability to draw increasingly meaningful feedback from a growing audience of users.If we market generically to everybody, we end up impressing hardly anybody. What we do end up with is elementary website style, one-size-fits-all email campaigning, and bland CTAs that rely on scripts of biz and tech jargon as lukewarm attempts to convert leads into sales. No matter how excellent and user-optimized our platforms are, if we’re not reaching those users in marketing we’re going to see dwindling click-through rates, little organic exposure, and the inability to differentiate in a market of consumers inundated with the same thing from every competitor. What can be done? We’re learning that in this day and age, every experience is User Experience. The companies getting it right aren’t treating the user as one of the millions. They are recognizing the user as one in a million.This is a difficult concept for many technology companies to harness and execute on because often times, the core of the brand experience is the product. They offer a product like a top-of-the-line staffing software and improve it as stack and competition advances. Technology companies spend a great deal of resources on optimizing and iterating product and marketing efforts tend to fall short.Author and marketing visionary Simon Sinek said it best: “People don’t buy what you do, they buy why you do it.” We call this the service-behind-the-software. In order to differentiate from competition, we have to develop incredible sensitivity to the story and character of our users.. For a staffing company, this might come in the form of killer client support, on tap 24/7. Rather than flaunt the quality of their product over a weekly newsletter, a staffing software company would do best to promote their readily available, compassionate customer service. What is important to their users is the service and solution, not just code and pixels.The company can then market their team and their identity as a provider of solutions, not just a manufacturer of product. The User Experience is extended to the brand experience.If user experience is the backbone of modern marketing, then each vertebrae is a different content platform. Ten years ago, any company could blast out a generalized email ad and expect to gain new business. Today, information is absorbed through an ever increasing number of content platforms, each with a different style, appeal, and audience.While Facebook might be a good outlet to run a paid ad campaign, presenting the same campaign on Instagram probably won’t yield comparable engagement metrics.Similar to the stack and classes in Object Oriented Analysis and Design, each platform should be viewed as a different means to tell a company, service, or product’s story. The ability to create adaptive, responsive content is key if we are committed to creating superior User Experience that extends from discovery to product use. Landing pages, CTAs, and all published content should directly reflect the nature and structure of the platform through which a company is operating. Native content allows an audience to retain its mass appeal, but allows specific communities of users to feel like individuals. Is the staffing software’s grade-A client support available through Twitter? Can clients live tweet their concerns and expect up-to-the-minute, informative assistance? Brand identity is nothing without proper knowledge of who might care about it, where it lives, and how it can grow.By now, this one should be pretty obvious. A slew of unactionable leads is useless no matter how many thousands of them exist in the cobweb-ridden depths of an Excel archive. Quality leads are the ones worth investing native campaigning and brand image toward because ultimately, they are the ones that become devout to a company.Companies should develop different buyer personas that reflect different pain points and user stories to offer differentiated solutions for different people. Staffing software companies might be able to hit the ground running with an awesome product, but it will easily fall short when misappropriating resources effort toward an unsegmented audience. Taking time to identify the distinctions in an audience and building feedback channels to continually improve that understanding are crucial steps in guaranteeing your ability to effectively market to them.User Experience is the primary focus of the inbound methodology. By building a content-based, consumer-focused approach to brand development, software and technology companies can begin to wield better the double-edged sword of their generalized audiences and create engagements based on individual appeal. Instead of casting as wide a net as possible and crossing their fingers for a bite, inbound marketing practices draw ideal consumers to them.Creative type. Content obsessed. Pro-Oxford comma. Dabbling in marketing strategy for PCR. I like pretty words, abstract thinking, and overusing idioms.PCR on Medium. Incredibly bad at keeping our own secrets.

by Paul McConnell“I was trying to spend a few thousand dollars and no one would talk to me,” recalled my neighbor Sherrie about a recent Home Depot visit. She went on to explain that her only option for information in the vast appliance section came in the form of a touch screen kiosk. There were no employees in sight. “I went to understand the different refrigerators options, but I first need to use a computer? When I finally flagged down an employee, they couldn’t answer any questions,” she said of her experience.While retailers such as Home Depot seek to understand how technology can improve the customer experience in their physical stores, consumers are struggling to see any benefit. Technology solutions are applied to problems that customers don’t have and often conflict with the purpose of a customer’s in-store visit. There is, however, an opportunity to improve the customer experience by focusing on an often ignored segment: employees.A technically enabled and informed employee is often at the center of a great customer experience. It’s one reason why we covet the Apple retail store. At Apple there isn’t a single large technology play but rather a series of relevant moments orchestrated by the staff. Apple employees begin the script by asking a customer “What would you like you to do today?” As pointed out by Apple blogger, Tim Barajin, this is an empowering twist on the classic retail greeting of “How may I help you?”Apple associates then proceed to direct customers to relevant products, help process payments or transition them to the Genius bar. Another recent example is eyewear disruptor Warby Parker’s, use ofTechnology rooted companies, like Apple and Warby Parker, see employees (along with great products) as a pillar of their retail service design. Traditional retailers however, in a race to embrace technical automation often neglect the employee. This is often at the expense of customers like Sherrie. For some, there’s still time to realign a retail strategy.Here are some things to consider if you’re looking to improve the customer experience by way of your employees:Retail executives have an impulse and often a ticking clock to innovate. These decision makers should consider looking internally in order to make a significant impact. Helping build a culture centered around employee contribution and empowerment will not only improve the customer experience but can transform the organization.Intersection is an urban experience company that combines expertise in technology, UX and media to improve life in cities around the world.

If you change the user, the interface changes.Apply this model before starting on interface sketches, wireframes or prototypes. It’s OK if it’s initially wrong and you start with assumptions…If you’re simply telling a story of the sketches, wireframes or prototype, use this model as your introduction before revealing them to people. It primes everyone. It creates common ground. Wondrous things will happen. It’s a framework to tell a Self-inflicted musings of a designer, dreamer, UX Architect A start-up seeking new ways to understand how people use software.

Let’s talk about what we know about a successful brand. We know a successful brand is “memorable, unique, and timeless”. We know a successful brand stands for something. They have values, and create loyalty through sharing these values. We know that a successful brand has personality. They have an origin story — it shapes “who they are” and helps define the character traits the consumer relates to. But what happens to a brand when the identity, originally designed to fit three mediums is divided, copy-and-pasted, or resized to fit every new interaction of the ever expanding consumer landscape? The result is a splintered, watered down version of the original brand. It becomes unrelatable — an inconsistent and unstable spectre of it’s former self. It is not a brand that can be experienced.It’s not news to anyone to suggest that a successful brand is one that can be experienced. This is the age of a calculated experience — UI/UX defined, perfected and dissected into separate tasks, both decidedly too valuable to be the responsibility of a single person — all in a single generation of the web. However, as brand touchpoints multiply, the user experience as executed by a brand remains inconsistent and fragmented. These mantras we’ve built for ourselves, the ideologies we check back with and compare our brands with in order to measure our success have become outdated. User experience as executed by a brand often lacks the perspective to create the experience necessary connect with its consumers in a meaningful way. Handed down from the re-invention of web design, user experience finds itself relegated to a subset of the website — a single touchpoint of a brand. Burrowing the user experience so deep within the brand creates an inconsistent and fragmented impression of the brand. As the calculated experience is being perfected in the web and interactions space, the consumer is becoming increasingly accustomed to a seamless transition from one platform to another; from checkout to delivery; from app to plate.User experience encompasses every aspect of a brand, from the product, its features, ease of use and reliability, to the customer service, packaging and marketing. It sets your organization on a path from which all brand touchpoints can originate, and continue to relate back to. It turns a mediocre pastry into a family event, a cup of burned coffee into a national pastime — it’s the difference between a good brand and a great brand, a fleeting brand and enduring brand. As the digital age continues to diminish the barrier to entry for nearly all markets, and drives the competition up, a superior user experience is the mark of a successful brand.Draw for $$$

This article is about gaps.I think gaps are where most of the interesting design challenges are lurking, particularly if you’re interested in information architecture.Information architecture is fundamentally interested in gaps — gaps between problems and solutions, between products and audiences, between perfection and pragmatism.Gaps invite us to think about the differences that cause them and the connections that might bridge them.Gaps keep us in a job.This article is about a way to describe and explore experiences — particularly the transitions or gaps that occur between moments in an experience.I like to think of information architecture as the science of separation, the art of connection and the technology of pointing. The gaps do matter, but only because they’re the space between things — and if we’re honest, the ‘things’ usually get most of the attention.Information architects are fascinated by ‘things’ and are preoccupied by considering their parts. We analyse and understand the properties of a thing so that we can describe its essence. We’re critically interested in simplification. We strive to make complex things more meaningful. So often we break complex things up into smaller, simpler parts. We simplify and separate. We build gaps.But although there’s this necessary commitment to reduction of complexity, I don’t think information architecture is a fundamentally reductive activity. Information architecture sets a template for the strategic construction of things. We build stuff — we make places out of information. So, as much as we separate things, we also connect things. We find similarity between and within the classes of things we’ve identified. We find and form connections.Once we’ve identified connections we devise and design ways to exploit these connections. Whether we’re designing digital navigation or coherent cross-channel experience, we focus on links. Links often depend on pointing at things — whether we do that with wayfinding aids or technologies that take you somewhere — like the hyperlink.This is what an IA does — we simplify, separate and connect things, identifying the ‘stuff’ we can build places out of, building and bridging gaps and making experiences meaningful. We create places that users can explore and which can be the setting for meaningful experiences.The most effective IAs don’t just consider the places they’re making, they also consider and design the spaces between the places.So we design places with an understanding that there will always be gaps between the parts of the whole, and that it’s out job to identify where and when these gaps need bridging. But there are other gaps that we care about too.There are always spaces between the places we make. There are always gaps between our intended design and the first iteration. There are always gaps between our vision and the way colleagues and stakeholders might imagine a design.No matter how good a design is, it’s never really finished. There are always gaps between what we release and what it will become.With any piece of information architecture, the implications of our decisions ripple across the whole experience. IA defines the shapes that can appear in the interface. It feeds back into the strategy for future ideas, iterations and innovations. IA controls and curtails opportunities — it reaches into the future and defines what’s possible. IA travels in time.This is one reason that when you’re designing information architecture (or really any type of UX design) you need to make sure that you’ve got the buy-in of the organisation. You need to have seeded an understanding of the implications of your IA approach, alongside the tangible things you build.So how do we do that? I’m going to describe one way — Trajectories. It’s a design and storytelling technique that should help you design better experience by bridging gaps — whether they’re between team members during the design process, between iterations of a design as it evolves or within individual designed experiences.A trajectory is the path that a moving object follows through space as a function of time.It’s also a line. It has a beginning, middle and end.It’s a type of story.IAs tend to spend a lot of time thinking about space. Information architecture is preoccupied by the spaces and structures that our design implies. But TIME is just as important as space. Information architecture underpins experiences, and experiences happen in time. If you only ever present your IA as a static structure, you’re underplaying the power of your design.IA is built to be experienced, so you need to find ways to communicate the impact that your IA will have on the temporal and sequential nature of the experiences it will contain.Architectures also evolve in time. It’s an extra dimension we need to keep in mind as we design. So whether we’re describing a user experience within our architecture, or the evolution of an information architecture between design iterations, time is just as important to an IA as space.Trajectories are a way of focusing your attention on the temporal nature of experiences. At their most basic, a trajectory is just a line that describes a path through an experience or information architecture. It’s a visual way to describe a user journey.Their power lies in their ability to focus your attention on any ‘moment’ or point along that line, as well as the continuity of the line as a whole.As we design experiences, it can be tempting to tell stories in rapid cuts — as if all user experiences are really unfilmed music videos. Whenever you hear a sentence that begins ‘and then the user…’ think about how well the sentence is connected to the one that preceded it and the one that follows. This kind of storytelling can sometimes suspend the ‘user’ in a mythical hinterland where the motivation or context for their understanding and action has not been thought through. Storyboards are a great way to describe experiences. But sometimes the secrets of a design are lost in the gutter between the cells.Something as simple as drawing a line allows you to trace the path of that action forwards and backwards to determine the motivation for the action, as well as the trajectory that the action suggests. A line has continuity — it’s connected. You can still describe the spaces, both between places and times, but a line encourages you to imagine the coherence and possible connections between the gaps.Design is about telling the story of a world that could exist and then devising ways to develop that story and make it reality. I think telling stories is at the heart of iterating and sharing design including information architecture.Every design decision has consequences, whether you build a dominant organisational paradigm based on taxonomy, or you focus on modelling domains and assume connections will be formed organically, for you… there are always consequencesTrajectories can be used to reflect on the direction that you’re travelling in, explore other directions, judge the energy needed to connect the elements of your designs. It’s a tool that can be used to judge a design, as well as the processes that will be required to realise a design.What’s the trajectory of the information architecture you create — how is it transformed from an idea into a reality?Stories, whether you use trajectories or not, are another abstraction you can use to zoom out and judge your design. They’re probably the cheapest way of seeding a culture and developing a shared ubiquitous language.But it’s not a particularly useful one.No matter how much I love diagrams, I’ve learned that they’re never as effective as a person explaining an idea. This trajectory is pretty useless. Even if you add some annotation (always a useful addition to a trajectory or any form of diagram) it will still be limited in effectiveness. But trajectories can be brought to life, they can be ‘animated’ by telling the story of the path that the trajectory describes.Imagine me running my finger along the line, describing the purpose of the curves. Trajectories can be used to document a design, but I don’t think that’s where they’re most useful.Think of the line as a path that your conversation might follow as it describes an experience. When you need to deviate from the path you’ve imagined, that reveals something about the design — work hard to make the implicit assumptions baked into the abstract trajectory clear.A trajectory line can describe any aspect of an experience as it occurs in time. As with any 2 dimensional line, you have access to a couple of axes.‘X’ is usually time.But we don’t have to use the Y axis to describe a movement through space. It could be a measure of attention or engagement. It could be used to denote a user moving between different contexts or technologies or platforms. Or it could mean nothing at all. You might not even have two axes, a trajectory might snake its way through a domain model, bringing to life the relationships, connections and properties that stand between objects and entities.The best kind of trajectories are hand drawn. I don’t think you should try too hard for perfection. Trajectories prompt questions and discussion. Make sure they’re not misleading. But if there’s a break in the line, or you make a mistake, don’t worry too much. The discussion that they prompt is where the real value lies.The intersection of different journeys and the variation in experiences is easily noted using trajectories.Seeing these two trajectories reminds me of the graphs I sometimes see on my iPhone after I return from a bike ride. The phone detects gradient and plots it against my speed. Seeing how going up hill slows me down is not a huge surprise. But using trajectories to explore the effects of the features of your experiences is a powerful tool, and usually leads to insights.You might not need to use curving lines. You can use trajectories to show movement through different devices or platforms. They’re a powerful tool for describing cross-channel experiences. I’ve used variations in contextual studies to show how editorial workflows are dependent on multiple tools and processes.We’ve found it helpful to think about three types of trajectory.One is the designed experience.Whenever you’re designing something, there’s an optimal path through the thing you create. We’ve all sat at a desk imaging a sunny day when everything goes right and the user flows through the experience in exactly the way we always imagined.Experience designers don’t really design experiences. We design the stimulus with which our audiences create experiences. Experiences are alway unique. A user will always contribute something to the equation of the experience — they always bring something. Most trajectories are a line, but I think it’s a good idea to make the line that describes this ‘designed experience’ a little fatter than the others.We should always be designing resilience into the ‘experiences’ we give to users and audiences. I like to describe this tolerance in the trajectories I design.If I know that there’ll be different levels of familiarity with an interface, I might describe a bulge in the trajectory at this point. This allows me to describe that although there are different levels of competency in my users, I’ve designed for this range. It also allows me to describe what might fall outside of the range of the designed experience. This will prompt consideration and often discussion as you tell the story of the design.Is there enough tolerance in the design? Is there too much?The trajectory of the designed experience describes the range of different user experience that your design is capable of supporting. It can also be used to denote the boundaries at which you have accepted the fact that the experience might fail or break down — which in turn can be used to design measures to pull individuals back on track.Every user will have their own ‘individual experience’ of the design you’ve provided.If you’ve designed tolerance within your product or service the second type of trajectory will hopefully lie somewhere within the region of the designed experience.This second type of trajectory describes the path that an actual person might take through the experience.Because we acknowledge that each user will have their own experience, we can describe multiple individual trajectories for the same designed experience. This is one of the most powerful tools that trajectories give us. It allows us to think about the different ways that the stimulus of our design can be interpreted and used by different individuals.Information architecture often makes me think about the ‘Choose your own adventure’ books that I read as a child. These books have multiple narratives running simultaneously within the same book. At the bottom of key pages the reader is given a choice, “To go in the cave go to page 42, to run away go to page 66.’ I like to think of information architecture as providing the same kinds of structure.The structure remains the same. The choices that each individual user can experience differ. They’re still usually based on an acceptable range of responses for each individual choice we offer, but the user is mainly responsible for making the experience meaningful, based on the stimulus we provide.Thinking in these terms allows us to focus on a broader range of supported experience, expanding outward from the ‘designed experience’ to explore the ‘individual experience’ in more depth and richness.The historical trajectory is the story that participants will be able to tell about the experience that they’ve had.All experiences create social and historical artefacts. It might be memories of the experience or it might even be physical artefacts. It might even be a social share that they create to pull people into having a version of the experience for themselves.It’s important to consider the historical trajectory for a number of reasons. After an experience is over, the historical trajectory is all that the user is left with, so if you want the experience to remain meaningful and shareable it’s important that at least some elements can be remembered and described.Thinking about the description that a user could give at the end of an experience is often a good way to identify possible points of confusion or pain.So, three kinds of lines to describe designed experiences — is that it?Well, kind of.But within any story there are punctuation points — chapters, sections, pages. The same is true of all experiences. Experiences are made up of parts and in the language of Trajectories the gaps betweens the parts are called transitions.Transitions are points in your experience where you need to pay the most attention. They mark points at which there might be a change of direction or where the continuity of the experience you’re describing is in jeopardy.These are the moments of risk and reward for a designer. And because they represent both risks and opportunities, it’s important to understand them.Information architects know the importance of naming things. Giving something a name helps you to recognise things of the same type. So I’ll describe a few different types of transition that it’s useful to think about, and give each one a name.If you’re successful in adopting and seeding Trajectories as a way to explore user experiences in your organisation, you should find that these Transitions become a checklist or a set of heuristics that anyone can use to investigate and analyse the success of a design or experience.Beginnings provide context and help us describe the motivation of the user.Considering beginnings can help you to explore whether your ‘designed experience’ reaches back far enough. How do people enter or begin their experience with you? What are the foundations you’re building on?Thinking about beginnings will also encourage you to consider the range of routes into a designed experience. Where do your users come from? Do you prefer any particular inbound referrer or source?Types of things you might learn by thinking about beginnings:- Does the user have all the information they need to take the first required action in the experience?- How might you enhance the motivation of the user at this stage to ensure the experience begins?- Is the required first action obvious across the full range of ‘beginnings’?People play different roles during experiences. Recognising the roles we want users to adopt, as well as the roles they might just ‘fall into’ will help you to design better experiences.Search behaviour is one good example of the way a users intention and motivation might shift throughout an experience. At times users might be tightly focused on finding a specific item or resource — you might describe this role as ‘motivated and informed seeker’ — they know what they want, they just don’t know where it is. At other times the same user might be looking for distraction and be open to browsing — this ‘curious browser’ would probably appreciate different features and functionality than when they inhabited the other role.Another example of role might be ‘beginner’, ‘intermediate’ and ‘expert’ users. They all experience the same stimulus, but they are likely to perceive and use the affordance you provide very differently.Role is one of the most fundamental aspects contributing the context that your experience will take place in.I like to think that good design and information architecture can orchestrate experiences. By considering the roles that a user might shift between, and the optimal roles required to deliver delightful experiences, we’ve got more information and inspiration to nudge users into the desired states and mindsets.The interface is the means by which we meaningfully communicate with our audience.An interface could be any means of communication — the user interface of a website, app or other digital product. It could be physical signs or way-finding devices, printed instructions or just the language we use when we talk to them.Is the same interface appropriate throughout the whole trajectory and experience?There are times when changes to the interface can have a profound effect. When we think about immersion and optimising experiences for engagement we’ll often want to make the interface as invisible as possible — maybe the content and the functional interface are fused together. Maybe the interface disappears when it’s not needed — think of most video players — but is easily recalled when required.The interface will often be how you manifest the ‘giver of the experience’ to the user. There will often be a bond of trust, so interfaces should be meaningful and reliable. But they needn’t remain static. Considering how an interface might react to different contexts, devices or user needs might unlock otherwise unseen potential.If you’re designing cross-channel experiences you might also want to consider how your interfaces complement each other. How will you support switching between interfaces to ensure that your experiences have coherence and continuity as well as flexibility and resilience.Information architects are preoccupied with the spaces we create using information and classification, but time is arguably the more important feature of experience design.Experiences happen in time. Experiences have duration and sometimes they can even be spread over multiple episodes or sessions. Considering how your design responds to this will always result in a more resilient and meaningful design.Does each session mark a new beginning? How might this beginning differ for each episode? Why will an episode or session end? How might you prolong it? How might you encourage a new session to begin?Asking these questions will reveal opportunities and challenges. But thinking about the answers will ensure that your designs reflect the actual flow of real experiences. Experiences are often interrupted, and they always occur over time. Always consider time and the evolution of the experiences you’re designing.Consider the impact on the user experience of beginning a ‘journey’ at different points.In the old days we’d construct a structure imagining a journey would flow from A to B. But search engines enable users to jump into journeys right in the middle of the A to B routes. More complex models place beginnings at many different points. What sort of beginnings does your UX need to support?Some experiences might require a user to switch role or mindset. How could you support a user to transition between active and passive states? How might you define and support multiple roles?Experiences can stretch across sessions. How might you enhance an experience by making it easier to pick up where you left off?Sometimes a user might switch interfaces. Think about how Google Chromecast asks a user to split their focus while they move from one device to another. The experience can be satisfying, but the seam between the interfaces needs to be considered.In the original conception of trajectories there was a transition called ‘physical/virtual traversals’. It encourages designers to consider the important transition that occurs when someone switches from a virtual interface and digital experience into one rooted in the real world.This is still a useful focus, particularly when you’re considering how you might augment real-word experiences with digital enhancements, the transition between the digital and the real-world domain is a seam that should be considered in the design.However, I think for most information architects we can extend our focus to consider any switching between domains — whether this is a virtual/physical traversal or moving between differently oriented information architectures.Even within entirely virtual experiences we can move users and audiences through different domains and sections. There might be continuity in the interface and temporal episode, but the underpinning architecture of the ‘space’ they inhabit can shift.Consider the points at which a user might leave one domain and enter another — this might signal a new beginning or a shift in role too. But there will definitely be opportunity to make the transition smoother and more motivated and meaningful for the user.Where your design or experience is predicated on the assumption of access to a set of physical resources, identifying this dependency is hugely important. Any core dependency that your experience rests upon should be identified and understood. But it’s likely that there are points in your Trajectory or experience where progress is entirely dependent on this access. Think of these moments as gate points beyond which the experience or design cannot proceed unless the necessary resource is in place.Access to physical resources provides a chance to consider where scarcity might be an issue. For example, ‘moderating comments’ might not always be considered a physical resource. But if we’re not able to support ‘user commenting’ fully, experiences and products could be undermined.Considering this type of transition should help you to design more resilient experiences. What redundancy could you design into the experience to increase resilience? What alternative resources might be able to serve the function once the optimal design is compromised?Seams describe any other type of weak points in technology. Of course, language is a technology. You can consider a broad range of seams when you design an experience.Considering the technical barriers that could undermine an experience is vital whenever you design or deliver an experience.Caching and off-line access to content is an obvious example of where considering seams can help ensure that participants remain inside our optimal designed experiences.Seams are points of weakness. Rips can occur when you haven’t tightly coupled the sides of a seam, so designing for seams is really a case of designing for resilience. What’s the most efficient way you might bridge a point of weakness in your design? What error messages might you provide when everything goes wrong and the user or audience does find a point at which the experience breaks down?Considering the social aspect of the experience you’re designing will enhance any experience.Lots of experiences are social, and even when a user experiences a design in isolation, there might be multiple users experiencing the same space or domain at any one time.How many concurrent users is the right number? How might you support asynchronous cohorts? What is the social aspect of your design?‘Encounters’ can encompass other types of thinking too. How might the isolation of a user enhance or detract from an experience? How could you use pacing to bring different users into contact or avoid encounters?Encounters allow you to focus on the inherently social aspect of any experience design — this can extend your attention to consider the social aspect of design. What are the social interactions you need to consider as you design?Most experiences come to an end — for example, we’re now at the end of this list.Considering the ending of experiences will help you create better experiences. If you know the ending that each user or audience member should reach, you have a quantified point you can use to judge whether your design or experience has been a success.Designing ‘Endings’ help you to consider the historical trajectory that a user will emerge with from the experience. What do they have at the end of the experience? Can they use this to share the experience or shape the future behaviour?A ubiquitous, shared language is the most powerful tool any organisation or design team can develop. Eric Evans stresses the importance of discovering and developing a shared language in software development teams, through Design deals in uncertainty, it’s an unavoidable consequence of any design endeavour.But designers, and IAs in particular have a responsibility to build meaning and trust through the processes they follow. Trajectories and the language of transitions are one way to explore meaning and standardise language.But they’re not magic.Stories only exist while they’re being told. Language only has meaning while it’s being shared or used. This article provides a quick overview of some of the ideas I’ve had around Trajectories. But I encourage you to experiment, develop and share your own approaches to using these ideas as you design. I also urge you to develop a shared language you can use with your stakeholders and colleagues to describe the experiences you design. This doesn’t mean developing or endorsing jargon. It’s more about precison and welcoming the question ‘what does that mean’. So if anything about trajectories or transitions remains unclear, please let me know.Im a Creative director at the BBC. I like words, design, data and magic. These are all my own views (apart from retweets. I borrowed those to look clever.)

User Research has this official-sounding tone to it. It probably requires someone with a lot of training in psychology, someone who understands the legalities of using human participants, and… what types of companies help you recruit participants? Ok, high quality, professional user research requires years of training, experience, and an unbiased selection of participants. But simple user studies are easy. You don’t need a lot of people. You don’t even need a representative sample of users.I mentioned the most common mistake entrepreneurs make in Startups often think that it’s risky if they conduct user studies too early and receive negative feedback, since the feedback could be biased due to the incomplete prototype. On the contrary, a startup cannot afford to conduct user studies too late.One of the startups I consulted with conducted user studies several months into product development, and uncovered some fundamental problems that would require a pivot to fix. Because they’ve already worked on this product for so long, their choices were to scrap months of work and lose investor confidence, or to release a product the know will fail. If they tested their ideas earlier, they could have pivoted before sinking in months of time and money.So how does one conduct inexpensive user research as a novice? Here are a few pointers to get you started:Most consumer products can be tested on friends and family. Even B2B products can be tested if you provide the participant a little background so they become the “actor” and pretend to be your target audience. I’ll explain that more in the next section.If your product requires domain expertise to use, or it’s confidential, you can always call on your coworkers. At Apple, I was responsibe for proposing new feature concepts for Safari. To conduct user studies on my designs and prototypes, I gathered feedback from coworkers who had clearance but were not working in the same area as me.If you’ve exhausted your immediate network for study participants, there are other ways to meet strangers for user studies without breaking the bank. When I was designing Watcha Doin’ and pushed for external feedback, the PM attended a $15 event that allowed him to interview 3 participants. Even with just 3 people, several patterns of usability issues immediately became clear due to their feedback.Any product can be tested before it is complete, and a lot of products can be tested before they even exist. The key is to create specific hypotheses and use still images and some good old slight-of-hand.We asked study participants to roleplay a persona. “You are ___, a new user in Second Life. You love karaoke, so you’re going to find a karaoke location.” We drew each screen in the activity-finding workflow on paper. And when the participant “clicked” on a part of the paper, we would manually switch it out with a different piece of paper. When we didn’t have screens for some actions the participant took, we simply asked the participant to try something else (and took notes on that usability issue).This scrappy approach allowed us to conduct 13 user studies early in the design process. We quickly realized that the feature was bloated, and adopted a minimalistic HUD UI without needing to change a line of code (because we haven’t started development yet!).One last note: user research data informs your decisions, but the data does not decide for you. Your participants are giving you first-impression feedback, and you may decide that some feedback is irrelevant because you are sacrificing first impressions for long term retention. This was part 3 in a series about how to create kick-ass products. Here are the other parts:orDigital adventurer in design, engineering, and startups. 

The customer walks into their retailer of choice.They’re about to buy a new mobile device.They pick up an Android phone and are quickly put-off.Many people have moved around many menu items, have changed the wallpaper to a picture of the store’s flooring and have turned the brightness all the way down.Why is this problem overlooked? It’s costing Google large swaths of customers every day.Android phones (since they cannot handle being “customized” by fifteen fifteen year olds every fifteen minutes) need to always have a demo mode that “refreshes” the interface every 5 minutes or so. They are unlike their brothers, Windows Phone and iPhone, where the user really can’t (excuse me) “fuck up” the experience for the next stranger.Android’s level of customization is its own enemy when it comes to being on display and being mangled by the public. When a first time smartphone user figures out how to turn on the device’s screen, they are instantly over-stimulated. The five million dollar ad campaign and online reviews suddenly mean nothing to the user. The 10 second hands-on experience says it all.The user walks over to an iPhone and is instantly pleased by the familiar and clean experience.$600 lost in 45 seconds. The Editorial Page

Lately have been doing user testing remotely for the product that we are building. Why remotely, why not do it in person? Ill explain you why and how to do it.Usually user research or testing is to be done at the user’s location in the place where she works/performs the action. Basically for the very reason that, users do not perform the actions or use the product in isolation, there are multiple factors that affect the users’ behavior. As user researchers, you need to read and understand the user’s body language and know where it is appropriate to probe and when. This may not be possible while you are remotely watching the user perform the actions.While in-person user testing is not possible all the times, which may be due to multiple reasons like saving time , lesser budget for travel etc. It is better to have them conducted remotely rather than not having a user testing sprint at all. For testing products whose users are geographically dispersed, scheduling a series of online remote user testing can be preferable and far less costly than travelling and performing them. This would save not only some of your budget but also saves you time to concentrate it on building the product.So your travel does not have to be coordinated, and you need not have to carry the testing facilities all over the globe. Further, participants can be from any geographic area rather than concentrated in one location, which makes Remote user testing allow the users to use their own computersWhile there are many You have performed the user testing, now what? The actual work of a user researcher would start only after this. You need to analyse the results, watch the user testing video over and over again, understand the users’ actions and pain points. See if there is a pattern of user behavior appearing across different users whom you have tested. It is said that you just have to user test the product with Having heard to answers for the why’s and how’s of remote user testing. Now the question comes up when to conduct the user testing sessions? It is better to have the user testing as part of a research sprint before the actual sprint starts. This should answer open questions for the upcoming sprint and verify if the previous sprint produced a usable product. The necessary changes for the product that came from user testing can be accommodated in the upcoming sprint as well. However having guerilla user testing sessions conducted during the iterative development of the product is also good enough, just we need to make sure that the necessary changes for defects or needed enhancements that came out of user testing results are tracked and implemented.Next I would write about research sprint and how to go about running a research sprint.

Something I have experienced these days when writing user stories for the next version of our product is that when you write user stories for personas who are not YOU…well, they basically When I put these user stories and epic descriptions in front of a real person who fits the persona I try to describe, I get funny faces, surprise expressions or feedback like But after all, it makes sense! I mean, how in earth are you going to describe others feelings and others lives…without their input? If you are creating a product for the elderly, you need to understand how they think. If you create apps for sales persons, you need to spend time hanging out with them…or you’ll never succeed.Note to self: in order not to make the product team loose their precious time implementing a useless feature, validate the user story with real users So to sum up, a As a good follow up if you’re interested in writing good user stories, here’s an article I enjoyed reading: “Best,Juan FernándezProduct Manager at Liferay, entrepreneur, husband, vocational musician, reader, thinker and traveler

As a visual designer at Infragistics I am always keeping my eyes open for effective dashboard designs to lend inspiration to projects. By browsing design-rich websites like Pinterest, Behance, or Dribbble I easily find collections that stimulate me. Many of the dashboards I come across are beautiful or at the very least aesthetically pleasing, but are they effective dashboards? Well, that would really depend on who the user is and what their needs are. Aesthetics are an important element of dashboard design but to be effective a designer must first take the time to explore three key points: the purpose of the dashboard, who their audience is, and how they will use it. With this in mind I have created a list of questions a designer can ask to guide their decisions the next time they are tasked with creating a dashboardThe objective of a dashboard is to track the data that effects an organization’s goals. However, not only will goals vary depending on the organization and their departments so will the methods to track and achieve them. With this in mind it is important to target a dashboard’s distinct purpose. Stephen Few, an expert in data visualization, has highlighted some of these purposes in relation to visual design in his book A An An Although a dashboard may need to express more than a singular goal I have found this breakdown of function helpful to my own understanding of how a dashboard can serve its users and how visual design plays a role in reaching user goals.By nature dashboards serve the executive and management levels of an organization; even so, the individuals of this user base will be diverse. To better understand who you are designing for, I suggest recognizing their experiences and abilities.A dashboard can be used in many different ways so designing with the user’s work flow in mind will add structure to the design decision process.By thinking about how the user intends to operate the dashboard a designer can begin to recognize which are the more constructive artistic principles/elements and how they should be implemented within the design.The above breakdowns are not isolated from one another and therefore should be looked at side by side with no particular order or ranking of importance. In fact, I find that many of these categorized points influence one another simultaneously. On occasion you may be designing for a diverse user base and will therefore have contrasting answers to the above questions. If this may be the case I suggest prioritizing the elements deemed necessary in a way that will provide some value to all.Since dashboards often express dense information and visualizations that are imperative to an organization’s success; good visual design implemented in a dashboard needs to be clear, practical, and elicit proper emotional responses. I am sure there are numerous methods and practices to achieve this but none of which will be truly effective without first establishing: the purpose of the dashboard, who is using it, and how they will use it.Digital Product Designer — CreativeNP.com

Pretty much every new app has the following problem: lots of people sign up but don’t stick around.I frequently get asked what are benchmarks for retention after one day or one week. My answer tends to be the same for products in the early days:Most people look too much at the “big data” and try to draw conclusions. In the early days of a product you have to talk to people. You need anecdotes much more than data. You could say To collect anecdotes, you have to talk to actual users. The best users to call are ones who can help you understand why they tried your product and what hooked them. I like to look for The first step is to identify some bounceback users to call. Select users who you now consider highly active users, but had a specific gap between the time of first signup, and getting into habitual use. Look for different ranges of time between their first attempt to use the product, and when they returned and got hooked. Reach out to them and ask if they would be willing to chat with you about their experiences with your product. It is good to target having around 10 conversations. It is ok to divide the conversations up among different team members.Ask the following four questions:Try to find patterns in their answers to help you understand:From these patterns, you can invest in revising your marketing and improving your product and onboarding. Revamp your messaging to focus more on the messages that brought people back and got them engaged. Update your product and onboarding to simplify whatever the users did the second time to get fully engaged.A lot of this I learned from a project that Twitter ran with Adaptive Path in 2009 to start understanding our user growth challenges. We learned from early users that many of them signed up for Twitter and thought it was just a megaphone. When they had nothing to say, and didn’t otherwise understand the product they bailed. When they later heard about how valuable Twitter could be if they followed their reverend or the food truck that broadcasts its location every day, they came back and tried again. But this second time they specifically sought out people to follow and had a good experience. We rapidly rebuilt our onboarding to focus much more on following and finding the right people which caused significant increases in how many users were activated after signing up. We revised our messaging to talk much more about finding and following the right people on Twitter instead of talking about tweeting and broadcasting.I recommend doing this exercise of interviewing new bounceback users every 6 months. You’ll learn a lot about how to keep improving your adoption and activation.Product Guy. I have worked on Twitter, Facebook Connect, Zazzle, LinkedIn, RealPlayer. Partner at Greylock, looking for crazy new things.

An app that understands the user and adapts accordingly creates a happier experience. At Anghami, the leading app for streaming music in the Middle East, we observe the music a user listens to and personalize the homepage accordingly. This is great for users who listened to a hundred songs since Anghami has enough information to make recommendations they will love. But what about a user who just signed up?The golden first experience will be subpar, and initial recommendations will be solely based on trending commercial songs. That’s why Anghami now asks new users the kind of music they like. User onboarding is the process of asking preliminary information so that the user finds the app useful. In the case of Anghami, users’ answers are used to introduce music they will likely enjoy. Instead of blindly displaying music that we think is great, onboarding makes it possible to introduce tailored music from the very first moment.In Anghami’s first iteration, onboarding starts by inviting the user to personalize Anghami. The purpose here is setting the right context and focusing on personalization. In the second screen, a list of popular genres is displayed, and the user chooses their favorite genres. The third screen shows popular artists from the chosen genres, and the user follows their favorite artists. Notice that the interface refers to genres in a friendly tone: “what kind of music.”It’s typical to inject analytics into every new feature so we can analyze performance. The analytics services we use at Anghami range from pure server performance to user behavior. Once Anghami’s onboarding became live, it was crucial to quantify the value of onboarding. This is typically done by looking at retention, which is the number of days users keep coming back. If users who completed onboarding were more likely to keep using Anghami, then that’s really good news.Amplitude has a nifty retention feature where specific audiences can be defined, and Amplitude analyzes the retention for each segment. This helps me as a product designer to know which features we should highlight because users will likely find value in that. It also helps the marketing team because it pinpoints the audience we want to target.I created a cohort on Amplitude for users who completed onboarding, and compared that cohort to all users in the retention tab. It turns out that users who chose their favorite genres and artists are 47% more likely to keep using the app in the long run.Naturally, we’re obsessed about long term user retention at Anghami, since it’s a direct indicator that users had a memorable to-be-repeated experience with Anghami. And since users who complete onboarding are very likely to stay, we need to make sure that most users indeed go through the onboarding process.To analyze the performance of onboarding, I look at funnels in Amplitude, which is essential when introducing new features. Funnels show the percentage of users completing onboarding, and where exactly users decide to skip onboarding. A set of events are specified, and the funnel displays how many users dropped off at each subsequent event. It turns out that onboarding was performing poorly, since many users opted to skip it altogether. With the insight Amplitude provided, we now have to make decisions.It’s understandable that not many people have the patience to give more details and skip onboarding. But the culprit is the first screen, which doesn’t give meaningful visual cues of what to expect, and a button that says “Personalize Anghami”, which is not obvious except for people working at Anghami. A screen that we thought would excite users caused them to skip altogether.Instead, we could’ve started with the second screen immediately. There’s no need to have a closed door that needs a button to be opened. By having the door open, the user will find it obvious that this is of great benefit: there’s a selection of genres in front of them. Without reading any sentence and without thinking, users now understand what’s going on. They will actually want to choose their favorite genres.Another issue that came to our attention is not everyone who chose genres continued with the process of choosing artists. In fact, 15% of the users dropped at this point. We realize that some users have an affinity towards lesser-known artists who don’t show in a list of popular artists. But that doesn’t justify a 15% drop.It turns out that while genres like pop, rock, hip-hop and alternative are common terms in the west, middle easterners don’t necessarily know the names of genres they listen to. So much so that we at Anghami created the names of many genres to begin with, like Lebanese Pop and Egyptian Classical. Most users don’t obviously know that Lebanese Pop refers to artists like Nancy Ajram, Elissa, and Carole Samaha. So many users either chose genres randomly, or they thought these genres referred to other artists. That’s why once they saw a list of artists, they didn’t choose any and decided to skip.Based on this conclusion, we felt we wanted to omit genres altogether. But displaying a random list of artists is nonsensical, and it’s infeasible to display artists from all genres on one screen. But to make the genres more meaningful, each genre will be accompanied by a collage of artists that the user can relate to. Not only that, tapping a genre will immediately open a preloaded grid of relevant artists so that the user can make sure this is the genre they want and they can choose their favorite artists in that genre.Anghami’s next update will introduce these changes based on what we learned in the first iteration.By looking at user behavior in Amplitude, we were able to quantify the value of onboarding, and make conclusions based on the user drop-off rate on each step of onboarding. We expect the design changes based on these conclusions to significantly affect user behavior, and hence increase retention.I design coherent interfaces, and get things done (with a passionate team like All about Growth Hacking, Mobile Marketing  Data Analytics

When designing products at large enterprises, final product appearance has to fit multiple purposes. Primary focus is always What works in Focusing on Solution is to Requirements cannot be “gathered” from your stakeholders like Easter eggs — they must be defined, through research and scenarios. Alan CooperInternal user might perform same tasks as end user, but with vastly different Goal of end user is to get the job done — Typical feature-creeped enterprise product contains too many As part of Sales person goal is to explain End user goal is to solve the problem using Pre-sales consultants with all new travelling gear consisting of MacBook, Goal directed design can not work in Internal stakeholders goals and motivations should be taken into account, but not by inviting them directly to regular Liked it? Please recommend it, or continue reading with I am crafting great ideas into working products and striving for balance between Design, Product and Engineering #UX.Design stories from designing apps at large enterprise for large enterprises

It happens about once or twice a year. I travel over to my mother’s house for a visit and, about two or three hours in, she says something like “Hey, can you take a look at my computer? I just want to make sure everything is okay with it. You know I don’t know what I’m doing.” She’s right. She doesn’t know what she’s doing.She wants to, though.And that’s what brings her and millions of people like her to the websites we create every day. They fumble frustratedly through signup forms, hidden gestures, and confusing interfaces. As designers and developers, it’s our responsibility to make our websites not only useable, but enjoyable enough to come back to again and again.Here are a few things I try to keep in mind about my mother when I’m designing a new website or interface:Internet Explorer is the browser she prefers. IE8 to be exact. The reason? Familiarity. She knows where all of the buttons are and how to navigate easily. The problem? She has every sort of toolbar one can have and she didn’t voluntarily install any of them. She’s also not confident enough to remove them or even update the browser. She thinks she’ll break it. I installed Google Chrome for her a couple of years ago but, time after time, I see that she’s reverted back to using IE. She feels forced into using Google chrome and blames it any time she can’t get a website to work. Even though IE gives her a diminished experience, she feels comfortable using it.Understand that if a majority of your audience is viewing your site on an older browser, they aren’t blaming the browser for the bad experience. They are blaming the design.Sites like Facebook and Google Plus have all sorts of features for uploading and sharing photos from all sorts of devices. For us, it’s really easy to share things. Snap a photo on your phone, click share, done. She, on the other hand, still emails me all of her photos. She’s on facebook, but doesn’t know when she shares something to the NSA or just family, so it’s intimidating. Google Plus is even worse. The interfaces don’t reassure or guide her enough through the process for her to complete it. If she posts a photo on Google Plus, she doesn’t know which “circle” to choose, how to upload the photo correctly, and whether the person she’s trying to send it to will even see it. She knows that if she attaches a photo to an email, and addresses it to me, I will get it and respond.Reassure your user throughout the process that what they are doing is correct. Use visual cues and wording to tell your visitor exactly how to accomplish what they are trying to do.We assume everyone knows what a save icon does. My mother used floppy disks for a few years but has undoubtedly forgotten all about their functionality. I see interface after interface that use only icons for actions such as “New document”, “Copy”, and “Delete”. Sometimes I’ll be walking her through some sort of interface over the phone and I’ll tell her to delete a file, only to realize that “Delete” is an icon. I’ll have to tell her at that point to search for some icon that looks like a trash can or an “X” or something. I’ve heard her say something genius after finding it like “Why doesn’t it just say ‘Delete’?”.Icons are really easy to use and guarantee a size in an interface. You don’t have to worry about text running long on a tool bar or issues with translation. It’s an easy crutch to lean on. But, what good is the design if the user can’t figure it out? Try to use descriptive labels along-side icons to teach users that X icon means Y action. I can’t remember how many times I’ve told my mother to press ctrl+C then ctrl+V to copy and paste something. She’s never going to get it, and that’s okay. She is also brand new to gestures. I bought her an iPhone about a year ago, and she doesn’t use many apps. She texts, makes phone calls, and checks her email. That’s about it. She doesn’t understand that checking for new emails means you just need to pull down to refresh on the inbox view. She feels the need to hit the home button to close the app and open up her mail app again to see if there are any new messages.I remember calling her the other day and she didn’t answer. It went over to her voicemail:She doesn’t realize that her iPhone does that for her. It will show her a missed call, the time of the call, their number, and if she knows them, their name. Yet, it’s almost automatic for her to set up her voicemail with that message. Would this be solved by the iPhone telling her to record a different sort of message? Maybe.Having power-user features is great. Teaching people how to There’s this idea that more clicks equates to a bad user experience. I hate that concept. I consider myself to be a very proficient web user and I can’t remember ever complaining about a website having too many clicks to achieve something. I’ve watched my mother fumble through websites that try to keep everything on one page. The thing she says over and over during the process is “Am I doing it right?”. If I wasn’t there to reassure her, her guess would be no.Again, give your users visual feedback that they are accomplishing the task they’ve set out to do. “Simple design” doesn’t mean less design. It means easy. Splitting up a form into four parts instead of one makes it less intimidating and reassures your user along the way that they are doing it correctly. Don’t handicap your interface by creating a “simple” one-page form when a four-page form is more useable.My mother uses the internet for some very basic reasons. I can probably name all three: Pay bills, watch Netflix, and keep in contact with her kids. Every couple of months, Facebook changes their interface on her and she has to relearn everything she knew about it, hoping that some of the old icons and menus are still where she remembers. Netflix does a good job at keeping the interface friendly and reassuring. Facebook does not. She just keeps looking at her wall to see photos of her kids and grandkids and hopes that the devs at facebook don’t change it again on her one day. Her bank, interestingly enough, is easy for her to use because it hasn’t changed in about 7 years. It still works on IE8, uses labels in English, and is small enough of a design to be seen in the real-estate allowed by all of the toolbars in her browser.Understand that if you are redesigning a website that has loyal users, drastically changing an interface on them means they have to relearn all of the links and menus, and that will probably drive them away in frustration. Keep some old elements in the same place. Update icons to look nicer, but maintain some of the old feel for familiarity.Make no mistake. My mother is a very, very smart lady. She loves technology and sees the wonder in it that we all do. She is not a sour old person that rattles her cane at young peoples’ new-fangled devices.She’s hip. Most importantly she wants to be part of the great things we are all creating every day as do millions of mothers all over the world. It’s our job to make these new things as fun and exciting as it is to us, to the people that taught us and helped us get here in the first place.Director of UX/UI at iFixit, user interface designer, team leader, husband, dad, and martini consumer. Just figuring the best way to be you.

I rave about user interviews. They’re cheap (see: free), potent (you get more than what you ask for), and efficient (But good interviewing takes practice.It helps if you’re naturally curious about people, but if you aren’t, you can still Like Erika Hall states above, when you embark on your user interviews, you’ll want to avoid asking what they want. Asking people what they want will lead you to the wrong insights. You will not discover the root cause of a problem, but rather what they envision as their own ideal solution.When you ask a person what they want, you let them think within the realm of possibility. And that makes user research harder than it should be. If you’re trying to create a new product or experience that doesn’t exist yet, you’ll want to know what’s causing people to not be able to do what they want At KISSmetrics, I spend a lot my time interviewing people about what they currently use to solve a problem. Here’s what I think are 3 better questions to ask. And I ask these all the time:Getting background information about what a person is trying to do is critical to understanding your users. Things like how big their team is and how their role fits into the larger organization helps frame the scale of a job that your product can help do better.Imagine that you are a handy man. Wouldn’t you want to know whether you’re fixing a small leak or re-doing a whole room? You’ll need different tools for those jobs and the scale of those jobs are completely different.It’s the same with user interviews. You’ll want to gain an understanding of what your users are trying to get done in order to get the necessary information back to your team. Your product and engineering teams will thank you for it.Getting down to root cause of a problem requires you to also ask why. After knowing the scale of a problem, I like to find out how a user currently deals with a problem. This lets me step into Here’s an example. I was recently doing research for the product team on a new feature we wanted to build. But we wanted to see how painful this problem was in order to prioritize it accordingly. By interviewing a bunch of customers on how they operate internally, I was able to draw something like this:Knowing a user’s workflow also lets your team figure out what parts of the workflow you can improve. For example, at KISSmetrics, we’ve recently found out that our customers prefer to work primarily out of email than with the app itself for checking on stats. Given that KISSmetrics is part of their daily workflow and sometimes even the first thing a person works with when they come into the office, we’re now pursuing projects that will deliver better email summaries to our customers.Most of your research has already been completed before you even get to this question. This question prompts the user to give you some ideas on what areas need the most help. Also, this is when they will help you validate or disprove your team’s hypothesis on building something.If you jump to asking users about how they think something can be better from the start, you only get their opinion, not how they actually deal with their current problem.This is where you’ll find opportunities to improve or where customers will vent about their current solution and what’s missing. Either you find this opportunity big enough to pursue with your team, or you dismiss it as something that’s already solved and move on to another hypothesis.This question can also help inform you about a prototype you can build to validate whether you can solve a problem. Note: I’m not saying you should build exactly what they say. The insights you glean from their answers will help steer you to some ideas you can try out. Test the prototypes to see if your designs end up solving their problem. Don’t just make whatever people want.Using these 3 main questions, I’ve been able to validate hypotheses for my team with a very quick turnaround so that we’re able to work on things that provide long term value to our customers instead of just a bandaid to hold them over.What questions do you like to ask your customers to figure out what to build or develop? I’d love to hear them. Feel free to ask me anything Thoughts on Research Methods, Usability Testing, Lean UX, and User-Centered Design

Testes, testes e testes. Para um Para coordenadores, gerentes ou diretores, é importante entender o processo de cada função dentro de sua equipe, para assim ser possível gerenciar e coordenar necessidades e milestones, por isso é importante entender que grande parte do trabalho de quem é responsável pela experiência dos usuários é observar, analisar utilizações, dados e ter a liberdade de testar conceitos. Um Se você pretende ser um profissional de User Experience em web ou digital, saiba que você irá ler muito, analisar concorrência, falar com todos os setores de sua empresa, clientes, montar documentos de apresentação, protótipos e testar estes protótipos. É importante entender que você é voz do cliente e dentro deste trabalho, todos, incluindo seu próprio time e empresa que também são usuários.Resumindo: Análise, testes e empatia são as palavras que comandarão seu dia.A dreamer, a doer!

User Experience is more important than ever, however the discipline has become more nebulous.People enter the field from different backgrounds and that variety, while valuable for this growing field, can confuse the uninitiated. Is it about creating wireframes? Prototypes? I thought that was what UI Designers and Developers did. Sitemaps? Weren’t sitemaps made by Information Architects? Don’t Content Strategists handle that now?The above is part of a larger UX toolset, but these exercises aren’t UX on their own. Here’s how I define User Experience:Triggering the intended emotional response is your North Star. Everything you do — your output — should get you closer to that goal. Your output is essential, but the User Experience Designer is a confusing title and can make it difficult to put your focus on the desired outcome of a final product. The word Designer — a seemingly innocuous word — is often tacked onto the title with no regard to the baggage this word brings. Design — especially in the interactive design field — implies At its worst you’re relegated to creating and presenting wireframes, feature-based prototypes, and rudimentary mock-ups for approval so that your designer or developer can begin their work. As a consequence, the discussions around your deliverables could get limited to how much the user will like its usability, layout and functional features. These discussions are all important, but these are not Change this mindset for yourself and others by changing your title from User Experience Designer to User Experience Lead. The change eliminates the baggage and it more accurately describes your role: To orchestrate the integration of multiple disciplines so that they work together to illicit the intended emotional response.Free yourself up to focus on outcome over output. That way you can more effectively research, plan, hypothesize, test, organize and craft the most inspired stories for your users from start to finish. When you start conversations from this perspective you’ll move away from those default UI descriptors that tend to plague the start of every digital project — words like “clean,” “simple,” and “user-friendly.”You’re still free to create wireframes, prototypes or just about anything else that’s part of your arsenal. But make sure your work storyboards a series of interactions that add depth to the original stories. These will go a long way when everyone else on the team is ready to expand on them.And there could be a lot of ways for it to expand: architecture, transitions, patterns, prototypes, copy, imagery, sound, design, development, usability — the list goes on, and it’s all at your disposal to move your project toward that single outcome. It can be a lot to wrangle, but enjoy it. You’re the UX Lead.I’m an illustrator and UX designer who likes to code.

by A friend recently sent me an email with screenshots describing KP.org’s workflows for sending a message to a doctor. He was telling me how painful the process is. Of course in my head I thought “it’s 2015…how bad can it be.” After reviewing his screenshots, I wasn’t entirely sure it could get much worse.How bad? We’re talking GoDaddy 2006 type of bad. Network Solutions (pick any year, ever) type of bad. A total disaster.Apparently, other parts of KP.org could use some UX review as well, Let’s start with the following user story and evaluate the workflow process: “As a returning user, I want to reply to a message from my doctor.” It explains my desire or intent as a user of the application. For those not familiar with user stories, I recommend the book “User Stories Applied” by Mike Cohn. That’s 11 steps to send a reply message. WOW. I included everywhere I need to pause and figure something out as a step, so let’s say it’s 11-ish steps. But wow, it’s a miracle I even made it through the process.Let’s look at some ‘before and after’ redesign screens for KP.org. For a more detailed understanding of the type of criteria we evaluate for user experience, go here One thing to note is that Kaiser probably has legal text mandates that must remain intact. As much as we might like to remove large blocks of text to clean things up, I’m sure their legal department would have a lot of things to say about that.After I’m a paying customer, I don’t need to be ‘sold’ much more stuff. I don’t need to feel the ‘vibes’ of KP.org. For me as a paying customer, my intent has changed from reviewing plans and information (consuming content) to actually doing stuff related to my healthcare (utility). My Health Manager could be a dashboard with all the relevant utility information I care about: Messages, Appointments and Prescriptions.We can replace the messages list with a modern interpretation that is much more informative and useable. With a new interface we can:To start we’ve moved all the disclaimer and help text to the right column. We also end up with a the form above the fold. We’ve added a special ‘Reply’ view that shows the existing conversation above the form so we have context when replying. We’ve also made the action buttons more visible.Simplicity Driven Development

I started working with To me this means a couple of things:When a user downloads or signs up for an app and opens it for the first time — the value must be delivered. This applies to both, B2B and consumer apps (Web/Mobile/Desktop). That is the moment where you must charm, convince and intrigue the person enough to continue onwards into the journey. No one likes a steep learning curve and we don’t have time to figure out how stuff works. Our attentions are divided enough as it is.BringList is an unconventional app because it generates a grocery list or to-do list from a text message. My assumption here was that we had to communicate the potential value clearly at first use or we would get alot of uninstalls.In other words I have to grab the user at the First Moment of Truth or FMOT ( A jargon I used and heard during my time at PG). If this was not achieved in BringList they would delete the app without a second thought.So what does it mean to catch them at the First Moment of Truth? Take a look at Dropbox. When you first open the Dropbox app, there is a splash screen that communicates what Dropbox does and why you should care.It’s simple but effective. If I was in a comma for the last couple of years (Aware of the internet and the concept of USB storage but missed the Cloud Storage Revolution) I would probably grasp the concept of Dropbox pretty quickly.Box is another example — the enterprise focus comes through.I used Dropbox and Box because that came to mind. There must be others who do the same — Bump is another example. They have a small animation of bumping fists and files jumping between the two devices.As for BringList — my assumption was correct. After we launched our first version I noticed some uninstalls happening through the Google Play Developer Dashboard. It was not a big jump to assume that some of the uninstalls occurred because there is no splash screen + the messaging I have on Google Play is well, all over the place. When the person opens the app for the first time and are taken to a blank screen (Because there are no items listed out) it just causes confusion and perhaps anger. The result the app goes to the trash.The design of the product should communicate value + guide my actions towards the intended purpose.Above is the first splash screen I made.It is not well designed (both visual and content) so I’ll be re-doing the whole screen again.As for Organimi it was more challenging to create a FMOT.An enterprise web app focused on HR folks, I did tutorial videos, I wrote a FAQ, short help guide, a long help guide and the basic help guide to help guide the user journey. But the core issue was that when users sign in, they are taken to a blank canvas. This can be very intimidating and a potential roadblock for further use.So we set-up a template Org Chart for them with blank roles. That did not quiet solve the problem so the next step is to set-up a sample Org Chart with dummy data for user’s to explore the functionality. For now I do this by providing them sample dummy data and encouraging them to upload and create an Org Chart following a step by step guide. Why? Because it will take a user a couple of minutes to set-up his/her Organization Chart in Organimi and then derive value from it’s simplicity and easy of use. We need to accelerate that ‘Aha’ moment and give them a sense of what it can do for them the first time they sign in to the application.Product, User Experience and User Interface Design should facilitate the user’s intentions and actions towards the desired outcomes. This can range from a guided tour, a splash screen or a complex demo.Thanks to my friends and family for reading drafts of this post.Master Builder.

As a business leader you know all too well the importance of having instant access to the data you need and the ability to instantly dig in and analyze it to make smarter decisions for your company.The First, you now have the option of previewing your own data from Salesforce Reports or Google Sheets directly in the Analytics Cloud playground. In just a few clicks, your data will be transformed from rows, columns and objects into interactive graphs, tables and charts. Now you can see first-hand just how powerful Analytics Cloud’s dynamic user experience, indexed search and high-speed query processing engine truly is as you instantly explore your own data set. And through free-form navigation, you can see just how easy it is to analyze patterns, discover new trends and deliver actionable insights from within your data to keep your business moving forward.Second, the playground is adding new sample data sets from some of the world’s leading information providers — Visit the Analytics Playground for desktop to explore new data and experience the power of the Salesforce Analytics Cloud first hand.You can also check out this video to see just how dynamic the Analytics Cloud Playground is:The Customer Success Platform

An article at UX Magazine from 2010 deals with the — then unmastered — challenge of Norman’s thoughts regarding the “reflective level” of design come to mind [While interacting with the Bloomberg Terminal may not be “necessary for normal functioning” (who knows?), changing that interaction by simplifying it may nonetheless affect self-esteem in a negative way.Perspectives like the one described in the UX Magazine article serve as reminder that there is more to “user experience optimizations” that initially meets the eye. Efficiency of a user interface in getting one’s work done is only one aspect of user experience. Efficiency in regulating one’s self-esteem may be another.One could also imagine that with time, a user progresses from stage 1 to stage 3 as he grows more familiar with a system.Another factor influencing whether an interaction is relevant for self-esteem, is the existence of observers while it takes place. In case observers are present, especially peers, even small and otherwise insignificant interactions may become relevant for self-esteem. Who wants to have interaction problems while their peers are looking over their shoulders?Knowing about the conditions that affect the relevance of a user interface, or the interaction with it, respectively, for self-esteem will help in gathering a more complete picture of users needs and motives and ultimately finding out how the user experience relates to users’ selves. The ideas sketched above may serve as a basis for additional and more detailed thoughts.Usability Engineer. Trained psychologist. Follow me on Twitter: Selected Posts

You create a website for people, not for numbers and figures. Makes sense, right? However, each target group differs in their needs, their desires and what drives them. It can be difficult to keep in mind. Personas can give you something to go on as they are the personification of your users.Based on a wide range of user data — sales figures, market research, etc. — personas can be created. The different types of users (target groups) are generalized and given a face (personal) characteristics, a nice profile picture, maybe a Facebook page. Posters are printed and put on the walls for everyone to see. There you go, your user has come to life.Personas can help you think from the user’s perspective, but in our experience using personas does not yield the desired results. Personas are often too general and abstract to serve their purpose. Additionally, the layer of abstraction remains firmly in place: “This is Richard, but what is he trying to achieve? And why?” At the end of the day it’s just very hard to keep a fictional character alive.While personas often remain generic and abstract, user stories go deeper. User stories tell you who the user is, what she wants to do on the website and, most importantly, why. In addition, user stories are brief, uncomplicated and tell you exactly what the user(s) purpose is. As a whole it becomes concrete and applicable, like so:The user story above provides concrete answers to the three questions (who, what, why). Now we can think of possible solutions. Keep in mind, however, that it is important to formulate a user story properly and not like this:Unfortunately, we often encounter user stories written like this, a user story that contains a (possible) solution. Or user stories that are no more than barely disguised requirements. But a proper user story focuses on the need and motivation of the user only. A user does not visit a website to log in. An innate desire drives the user, in this case to the login screen. You can prevent mentioning solutions in user stories by asking ‘why’ until you arrive at the essence.Reading the first user story, you could be convinced that a login screen is a viable solution. Why is it necessary — or at least very convenient — to avoid this?If you do not mention the (possible) solution, you are forcing yourself to broaden your horizon. You could arrive at the conclusion that logging in is not necessary. But you would not come to this conclusion if you mentioned the login screen in your user story. A good user story enables the creative mind to think beyond ‘standard solutions’ and helps you understand what users really want in the end.Of course developing a website is not just the web team’s responsibility. Developers, testers, marketers, stakeholders and others are involved as well. User stories assist when sharing developments and ideas.Let’s look at stakeholders, for example. At a demo you can show a login screen with the words “This is a login screen, and this is where the customer changes his details”. All sorts of sensible and nonsensical discussions might ensue. But is that you want? Or will you let users and user stories lead your presentation? You can explain which user stories are formulated, how business goals are part of them, which user stories have been given priority — and why — and then elaborate on the results of a user test. Finally you’ll arrive at the end product, a login screen. It’s a solid story that makes the process and your work transparent, concrete and tangible. There is less room for discussion. Everything is validated (the right way).This does not only apply to stakeholders but to the entire team and everyone involved. Everyone can translate user stories to their own expertise. Also, it forces us to consider the user’s perspective on the design — not just our own. In our opinion, herein lies the power of user stories: they function as the common and understandable language for a multidisciplinary, user-centered team.We get users involved. We want to understand who they are and what they need. How they navigate the digital world. And here we share our insights and learnings.

Awesome initiative. This reminds me of A Brazilian digital nomad, that likes to cook, code, sales, and help startups.

We’ve lead the heads of business and design at Boeing, Tribal World Wide DDB, Zappos and more over the years. Including companies from Canada, USA, Mexico, Jamaica, and Europe.The capacity of people within organizations is unlimited. The only question is whether the corporate culture within the business is open to thinking about their products and services from the point of view of their customer, and making changes accordingly.JP —That’s a tricky question! ☺ For me it’s not the line of the CV saying that I’ve worked for Apple or any other company. I enjoy the discipline of User Experience because of the opportunity it provides me to work with and help other people.As the designer Richard Seymour once stated, “We need to move the conversation from what we could be doing, to what we should be doing!” There’s really nothing we can’t create or accomplish today.Perhaps if we focused less on being part of a big brand — and by extension believing that individual has better ideas than any other — we’d probably be overwhelmed with the inspiration that gets voiced.JP — I think the massive influx of startups not only in Silicon Valley but worldwide is an encouraging sign. Many of these follow an Agile approach to development from the start, and as an extension may apply UX methodologies throughout their process.The industrial revolution is over and yet many traditional companies have a reluctance to deal in this reality. People are demanding better service from organizations, as they should. There’s no longer a few options for people to chose from — but rather a selection that can be found around the world in many cases.Think about your own experience with companies that truly shine when it comes to your wanting to go back to them again and again. What are the aspects of those companies that make it so attractive?I would guess it’s things like: great customer service (online and in the store), easy access to anything you need, web and mobile services that are appropriate to the things you want most, etc.We live in a global economy now. In my professional opinion, if you want to stand out as a business and you have many competitors, simply learn what your customers want, and ensure you listen carefully to their needs, and adjust as they desire.JP — Canadians have a reputation world-wide for being incredible nice as a culture…and we are! I believe Canada has good customer service but it would depend on the industry to which you’re referring.This is an interesting question actually because as we automate customer service through technology more and more, that connection of feeling listened too, and by extension, provided the help people are seeking, becomes less than satisfactory in many cases.We have to remember — regardless of where you live or where your business is located — we are designing solutions for other people. There isn’t always “an app for that.” Technology in all areas, but especially in terms of customer care, needs to be seen as a possible solution; not the default answer to every problem.Understand the problem that people need to resolve. Talk to these people and then provide solutions according to their needs. Oh yeah, and because we’re designing for people, keep the conversation going for as long as you own the business.People are not statistics and their needs and interests evolve over time. The added bonus to this approach is that allows you to stand out by helping people feel they are being listened to … now all the business needs to do is follow through on changes after their customers have shared what they want.JP — A bad idea is a bad idea. Spinning the bad idea by trying to use a “sexy” interface or technology will only get you so far. Eventually the product or service will fail as it won’t meet the expectations of the people to whom it is supposed to engage.JP — I am leading the workshop “Paying It Forward” on April 9th. This workshop is designed to provide insight and inspiration to the Non-Governmental Organization, FRSI.Participants will be engaging on hands-on, interactive exercises learning about best practices in designing for people, while simultaneously engaging with employees and executives from FRSI in defining both business and user needs.In addition, I have been given the honour of the Opening Keynote address at UX Poland. My talk is entitled “Accountability In Deisgn — Our History Will Be What We Make it.” Drawing inspiration from Edward R Murrow, Michio Kaku, John Sterman (MIT), Robert Cialdini, and many more I will ask the audience to consider three fundamental principles for how we can raise the level of debate — and by extension the quality of ideas shared and products created — from the perception of other professionals we engage with on nearly every project.Dad, entrepreneur, fire starter. Founder  CEO at MUSE (YouTube analytics for MCNs, brands and influencers)

As a UX designer, I noticed over the past few years that our job has been evolving quickly tending more and more towards creativity.The CSS3 gave us new animation possibilities, the hardwares are more and more powerful, the bandwidth speed is continuously growing. We have now this wonderful opportunity to highly improve the user experience even more than along previous years.A UX designer can design interfaces that work, that have been accepted and validated during user testing sessions. Information architectures are perfect. Interfaces are useful. Users achieve what they want. They are satisfied. Add value has been generated for the business. Everyone is happy with that.But sometimes the functional design is too flat. Too strict. We cover users’ needs but that’s it. Nothing less, nothing more….I’ve already heard talking about “Wahoo effect”. While this term doesn’t mean anything accurately, it refers to the wish to go ahead and create something captivating enough to generate enjoyment.Creating an “engaging design” adds another dimension to the information architecture which is enhanced and sublimated, creating a real interactive experience.The information architecture represents the fondations of a digital product. It’s about how it works. It’s the plan guiding users from a point A to a point B throughout different pages. It’s the structure the entire website is based on.Once we have built a successful information architecture, let’s deal with the animations providing more sense and strengthening our structure.This task is really creative. That’s why I think it’s important to involve both the UX and the Visual Designer on this.It’s up to the UX to make sure every single animation is meaningful and useful. It’s absolutely necessary because we are not working on the aesthetic aspect but on the efficiency side.Those motions also help users to quickly understand affordances. Again it’s an opportunity for us to visually explain how it works, what are the interactive elements etc.Then, the graphic designer and the art director can follow those animations, improve them and create new ones regarding to the look and feel approach.Creating engaging design by using animations brings new possibilities to guide the user’s attention.A Few years ago some people started to talk about the “With these new design principles and technical capabilities, we can now fully use this Progressive Disclosure approach.By mixing progressive disclosure and meaningful animations, it’s now even easier to catch the user’s attention and drive their eyes to focus on what we want, where we want and when we want.See more examples on:It’s crucial to avoid disturbing his attention too much. Keep in mind that an animation increases a lot the strength of a component. So consider this strength. Is it relevant to have a strong visual impact for this component? Does it still follow the information architecture logic or does it become more important than minors elements?Let’s go beyond the static information architectures and try to captivate users thanks to meaningful and subtle motions.As UX Designers, it’s part of our role to deal with those motion systems to deliver a very rich — and even emotional — experience and strengthen the user’s engagement.More than ever before, we can use all the capacities of the progressive disclosure logic to drive the user’s attention on the right content at the right moment.UX Designer coming from Paris and working in Sydney

Fashion has long been a part of user experience. You can take a look at the UI of a product and can probably place it in time. It helps that the UI is tied to a system UI that is a heavy cue (e.g. You will recognize a Windows 3.1 UI vs. Windows 95 vs. MacOS 9 vs.....).Just as you can place software UI fashion, you can obviously do the same for clothing. If you think 80s I bet you will picture some clear apparel and looks.There was a lot of interest in Apples Few worried about what changes he would bring. Would they be too bold? (Dont change a great thing that my Mum knows how to use!!!) Does he get software? I am in the excited camp, mainly because I am ready for a change. I admit it, I am a lil bored with iOS. Having gone through the revolution that was holding the hitchhikers guide to the galaxy in my pocket, recent improvements feel very evolutionary. I am asking myself the will this make my happier? question a lot more recently, which becomes very meta very quickly, but that is another topic.The fashion of software has always been driven by constraints. The what tools do I have available? of a platform changes very quickly. The path of text based UI to a desktop GUI to mobile and touch. I guess the same is partially true for clothing too. As we have new materials to work with and innovations in manufacturing, we can have new forms of design.Some fashion seems to last the test of time. A nice pair of denim jeans are timeless. A simple black suit. It seems like the cleaner and simpler the cut and design, the longer it can last. If the design highlights the underlying content, it wins.We have been seeing a push to let the content do the talking where the UI takes more of a backseat. The small mobile form factor makes that necessary, but it had also moved to the desktop (Chrome) and hardware (new tvs with minimal bevel).The Windows metro interface is a great recent example of pushing simplicity into the platform. There has been talk about how some of the constraints on the engineering side (dealing with compositing) helped push a simple flat look, and it has some side effects.When I use Windows Phone applications two things jump out at me:- compare this to the Web, where most experiences looked bad by default (because there werent many defaults)- Twitter bootstrap has become a de facto starting point (which some designers dislike!)I guess the balance is always interesting. Can you find constraints that make an experience great by default, but also leave enough room for the spirit to shine and mate with the platform.With iOS we saw the migration from stock iOS looking apps to the point where people both had the ability, and were also experienced enough to stay within the platform but also push the boundaries. The innovation has gone from Apple apps more into great third party ones.So, I am very excited to see what iOS 7 comes up with. iOS.current is a nice pair of worn jeans, but they are starting to feel a lil 80s. technologist, product engineer and human dev aggregatorThe Editorial Page

We all know that an appearance of a website contributes a huge amount in user conversion. A large part of unit metrics can be improved with proper UI of a website or app. After that comes UX.Landing page makes the first impression encouraging users to sign up or to do some specific action on the website. Encouragement works always better than Direct pushing. Silent pushing is okay and also a much needed one.With Direct pushing I meant to say that when we feel pressed while we visit a Shopping mall and salesperson starts interrogating or starts over with today’s special sale. Imagine you went to a restaurant and within a minute waiter asking “Madam, what do you want to order?” , you didnt get enough time to feel the ambiance or an opportunity to go through the menu at least on your own.Will it not be better if it happens in the following way:I tell this silent pushing; leading to better opting of the product or service. Not just selling. Solving the visitors problem and truly helping them by your product or service and providing information at right time.We at At Now after the video section that is when the descriptive section starts on scroll we forcefully opened a pop-up prompting users to request early access on our site.It was fine from our perspective as Users were coming to our site knowing about Basket from some other website like So we used a auto pop-up to make the conversion higher. If people wants to read more they had option to close it and carry on. BUT WE ASSUMED WRONG, as it interrupted their flow. Many visitors got it right but also many wanted to read on and signup at the end (Yes we kept another action button there too!! and it helped).We was sure about the problem once we got another large volume of user from It changed the visitor conversion dramatically. We saw more % of visitors are subscribing for early access in Let me know your thoughts over Twitter Thanks. ☺ Have a great day.Co-founder @ 

It’s obvious how searching websites has transformed the way we see things on the web. Nowadays, we basically Google, Yahoo or Bing to find what you need to read, buy or discuss. Searching things became so common, that almost every website has a search field, even when they don’t work.Let’s discuss a few techniques on how to improve your website search by thinking on the user experience. These tips are based on an UX perspective and not a technical code based.Don’t create features for your company or website. You must create features for your user, trying to make its experience on the website, the best of all.When you start prototyping your search engine, don’t create awesome features that only the developers will understand what that beast can do. Think about the user, always.Getting back to prototype and mockups, you must ask that question to yourself: “Does my website need a search engine?” It Depends.To determine if you should have or not a search engine, you must answer some simple questions:The content of your website will tell if you really need to have a search. When you are creating an e-commerce, it’s almost a big requirement to have a search engine. If you have a lot of products, you must guide your user to the product using smart techniques. If you are creating a blog, you must understand that your content will keep growing and you have to organize and make it searchable in the future.So, if you have a lot of content and if your website has too many kinds of information, I think you should start thinking about a search engine.Well, you need a search engine, ok. But, how big this should be? Let’s talk about the main goal of your content. What should your user see? Last news? Awesome new articles? Historical documents? Phrases from an old books?Think about a website like That’s a good example on how huge websites with huge contents don’t need a search engine as a main goal.If you are focused on selling products, storage content for searching or if you are Google, your must make your search easy to use and intuitive.To create a good experience, try increasing the size of your input search field, maybe even using a highlighter color. To understand more, let’s talk about the search elements.Don’t forget about the button. People click on the button after typing what they want. The button is a call to action and reinforces to the user what the action will be.There are some cases where you can use the benefits of auto complete and use the keyboard shortcuts to navigate on the search results.For example, when you start typing something on google’s homepage, you are already redirected to the results page with an autocomplete and the closest results. This is an incredible way to make things faster and more usable to the user.Before removing the button, do a research about your audience.Use placeholders to explain to the user what they should search on that field. You can also have a filter next to the input field, making the results more accurate.Here are a few items that you should have when displaying search results:When displaying results, don’t make the user open 200 tabs to understand what the product is and what a similar result of it is. Don’t hide values in general, be honest with the user.It’s great to have the amount of results found. This is very helpful to understand if that search term is too generic, in case there are too many results.If you are an e-commerce, don’t waste the opportunity to put your most important call in action: “BUY this item now”. If you have features like one-click-checkout, it’s your time to display that button. Make more money with more accurate search results.Use smart search engines with “did you mean” features. The user will always find what he is looking for and you can make another sell.You don’t have any products with that term? Be honest! Do a good “no results” page. If you don’t have a product with that term, try to use the “did you mean feature”. If this is a valid term but you still don’t have products, suggest similar products. If the user is trying to search for a T-shirt and you don’t have that brand, try to suggest a similar T-shirt.Try to avoid blank pages with no interest content on the results page. If you don’t have enough content to put on that page, put some help text, this will guide the user to a better experience.Too many results? Great! Now make them organized. Try to paginate your results by using a regular pagination system or you can try to add an “infinite scrolling” feature. But be careful, As you can see above, first channels with a different alignment and then the regular videos related to my search.As you can see, the main goal is to always point the user to the right direction. Creating applications with search engines is not an easy task, but you can make the difference using these tips to improve the user experience on your website.Please, feel free to comment, argue or whatever you want.$me

As you develop your For those unfamiliar with this concept, user testing is at the core of user-centered design. It is the practice of evaluating your product (prototype) by testing it on your end user. User testing provides you with valuable direct feedback on how the real user will utilize your product and what hidden needs they might have.Sounds easy enough?Not quite.Honest feedback is the best feedback you can get out of user testing. However, it can be tricky and overwhelming for both you, the designer, and your users. Here is a few do’s and don’ts to help you optimize your user testing!When you first present your product, try to avoid telling your users about it. Just show them — Give them something tangible to touch!As wonderful as it may be, avoid talking to your users about how great your product is. You are not trying to sell it (just yet). Let your users express their thoughts about it and listen carefully! Let them tell you all about what they think it does!Let your users start getting familiar with your product and its functions and avoid being a “how-to” guide. Observe their behavior and interaction with your product — you might even discover a use you havenʼt thought of!Now, I am not suggesting a strict “do listen, donʼt ask” attitude.“Why” is actually often the most vital question you should be asking during your user tests. Weʼll cover the importance of “why” in a future post!Questions are the most powerful tool of any user testing.Happy user testing everyone!The intuitive, fast and collaborative prototyping tool youve been waiting for. Sign up for free at 

First impressions are everything, and that goes for mobile apps too. Especially in today’s market, when Much has been said about the First Time User Experience and what it entails. Does FTUE refer only to an initial tutorial, walkthrough or video, which many commonly call We decided that the best way to truly understand what the market offers by means of FTUE, and to see how apps today treat this unique aspect of UX, is to look and learn. The FTU Review will cover initial user experiences with various apps, from a new user’s point of view, and rate that FTUE by 4 criteria:(*You can read a more in-depth explanation about our rating system The latest app we reviewed was You only get one chance to introduce your app to a newly installed user. Make it count with Elasticode’s personalized onboarding solution.

“I was not sure if I should write down my thoughts on this topic or not… let alone publish them online.”Ok, I guess I made up my mind on that conundrum. Let me point out though that this is not an attack on anyone, any company, or any tool. It’s a mere observation.While working on my online course about You see, there is an easy process when it comes to user feedback research and putting it to use for online optimisation.All the tools out there on the market today do a great job at collecting feedback. All vendors offer passive collection methods, the more premium vendors allow you to actively approach users, or even target them based on behavior.I applaud these techniques, I really do because I have been able to solve some real issues using user submitted feedback and have even considered replacing regular NPS surveys with more page level feedback since it is more contextual, and more effective for solving user experience issues.I have accounts at almost all the vendors out there, and I have used almost all tools out there. I can safely say that with only a few exceptions (few as in 1 or 2) the analysis capabilities in user feedback tools are lacking the necessary punch.In the chart above, I tried to plot the tools I reviewed on two axis.I defined In Level 1 you would also have access to the qualitative data, in this case the answers to the open-ended questions.For As you can see many tools are clustered simply based on the analysis functionalities they offer, or should I say don’t offer.This is where the big opportunities lie. Gone are the barriers to collect, gone are the barriers to target users, and gone are the barriers to collect on mobile devices.It is time to separate the men from the boys so to say.While vendors continue to focus on collection methods, analysis functionalities are failing. A decision that, from personal experience and talks with insiders, is costing vendors customers.Churn is massive.Vendors, in my opinion, can truly distinguish themselves simply by starting to investigate and invest in functionalities for the analysts, the marketeers, the people who need to use the tools, and eventually recommend the renewal of the tool’s subscription.Stop focussing on collecting, we’ve crossed that bridge. Start making your tools more than eye-candy for management, make them leverage the knowledge and motivation of intrapreneurs, the foot soldiers in the online realm, the people who give your company meaning and value in return.Value of user feedback tools does not rest solely in the collection capabilities, it never should have.Analysis and reporting are the two ignored selling points of your power to give us insights into our user’s motivations and fears.Harnas it please. Today.Im no Superman, but Im happy-in-love with 

This article, or rather this tutorial is just a simple step-by-step guide to designing a consistent, practical and beautiful looking user interface for any web project you’re working on. It’s important that you follow through these steps in their given order to make this concept work.As I see it, the first thing you need to do is — pick a color pallet, and then stick to it!You can do this with ease using a website like Read up on the You could also use the popular 60–30–10 This includes everything from the number of columns to where the navigation goes. You should take care when creating a layout since it certainly affects how people interact with your application, making it an essential component of a good user experience.Plan it so that it could be adopted to any part of the application with ease.I’m going to go out on a limb and say that you shouldnt try too hard to re-invent the wheel here; look at sites like Medium and DeviantART, the former is an example of a very minimal Once youve completed the two steps above — half your UI work is done. Now you just need to create all the elements based on a common style.Within this tutorial by style I mean just the common structural and certain design components of all the elements in your user interface. For example — you can say it’s the border-radius of 4 pixels common to almost all the elements or even just minimal or flat!Create a common style for your elements by putting together a few effects such as a border or border-radius, drop shadow or inset shadow or just a use of transparency. Then like the color, stick to it throughout the user interface.It’s important to note that the user interface and the user experience are not the same thing. Designing the user interface is sticking every element on to the window beautifully, the user experience is about making it easy for the user to achieve a certain goal within your application. You can say that a One of the best ways to create a better user experience is to It is a known fact that 1 in 4 apps downloaded are never used again, and one of the main reason is a bad user experience.To avoid bad user experiences, think like a typical user. Plot out the various scenarios that a user might get into on your application and then try to make them as simple as possible. It is also important that you show your interface to a typical user and get some direct feedback — a new set of eyes can give you a difference perspective; which always helps.These days people own multiple devices with various screen resolutions and as web designers it is our duty to make sure that our applications can be accessed with ease from all these difference devices.Create your layouts and user interfaces in a way that they can be easily adopted to difference screen sizes. Think of Medium on mobile — this (current) online layout can easily be adapted onto mobile devices.Following the steps above is one of the easiest and fastest methods to create an all-rounded user interface, and is something I use all the time to draw up user interfaces for my projects. Not only does it take into aspect the design and identity of the product, but also the user experience; which is just as important.I’m a generalist. I create and learn new things everyday, going from graphic designer to editor to science enthusiast and developer is just what I do for fun.

A mix of references that I’ve found helpful. Good for designers or anyone curious about design.User Experience Designer 

Recently, the team at Client A was developing a web app to help instructors and students share assignment dates, details, and related content. With two very different sets of users, our first step was to define who needed onboarding most.We landed on the instructors for 2 reasons:Our first design moved instructors through a series of screens (the setup wizard approach) that let them review and manage suggested assignments. But in testing, instructors felt overwhelmed by some screens and had a hard time visualizing how assignments mapped to a semester. They also felt uncertain that all their work was being saved.Instead, the test instructors asked for a calendar view to review and adjust assignments. We quickly designed that workflow and added it to our We found that instructors not only understood the mechanics more clearly, but also felt less intimidated by the calendar interface. They understood it would let them add, edit, or remove items and see immediate feedback that their work had been saved, which the wizard hadn’t provided. Though both designs saved their work in real time, It’s worth noting that the users we worked with asked for a skeuomorphic solution. They wanted to relate to the digital product through an analog experience in order to fully understand the tool. (As one of Client B, an email-marketing software provider, was looking to add a new feature to an existing service and wanted to be sure that users could adopt it simply. This client wanted to help their customers create series of automated emails that would send based on specific triggers — such as signing up for a newsletter.We began crafting a workflow where users entered a wizard from a main menu system, then worked through defining the name and content for each of the emails in the series.After finishing setup, users would be able to manage the series by navigating back to the wizard. After we prototyped this design, we tested extensively — and found that some users had a hard time starting the process. Many of them expected an option that would let them start a series based on existing emails.We decided to add that feature and then mapped out a workflow to create the same type of series from a different starting point. Though about half of users grasped how to create a series through the menu, accommodating those who didn’t reduced friction and led to more happy users.We can’t overstate the benefits of not only focusing on how you can help new users understand your product, but also testing alternate approaches. Prototyping, Collaboration  Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at 

Ainda tem muito pouca gente olhando para isso, apesar de todos os relatórios de tendências apontarem para a crescente e profunda integração dos pontos-de-venda tradicionais (lojas físicas) com os pontos-de-venda digitais (website, aplicativo, website As possibilidades são enormes. E as pessoas vivem grudadas no smartphone não somente quando estão na mesa do bar (para irritação de quem está junto delas), mas também quando estão dentro de uma loja fazendo compras.O fato é que em terras norte-americanas essa corrida já começou.O que sua rede de varejo oferece em termos de conectividade com o smartphone do comprador?Por que não permitir que a pessoa faça uma compra online imediatamente, caso o produto que ela está procurando não esteja disponível naquela unidade?Em lojas de marcas famosas de tênis, por exemplo, esse sistema já está completamente integrado no próprio dispositivo do vendedor. Não temos o tênis na cor azul, ou no tamanho 43? Ele chega na sua casa em 2 dias úteis, querido consumidor. Sem frete, claro, porque você já se deu ao trabalho de vir até a loja e nós não conseguimos atendê-lo bem.E esse tipo de ideia do parágrafo acima nada mais é do que uma marca tentando prover uma boa experiência (UX) para o consumidor.Segundo Em alguns casos, esse tipo de programa de fidelidade mobile já é mais comum do que programas de fidelidade tradicionais, com cartão de plástico e seção logada em website desktop.As possibilidades técnicas estão cada vez maiores. Se um consumidor entra numa loja (da qual ele possui o aplicativo instalado) e passa mais tempo do que deveria procurando algo, o próprio aplicativo “desperta” e passa a oferecer ajuda.Outro exemplo: quando você marca um atendimento na Genius Bar de alguma loja da Apple, tanto o aplicativo de iPhone do vendedor quanto o seu enviam uma notificação quando você chega na loja, para promover o encontro entre os dois.Uma outra grande oportunidade são as compras feitas em smartphone dentro da própria loja.Bom, tem algumas palavras e expressões que aparecem na primeira parte desse post que eu queria destacar aqui:Quando você pensa no desenho de experiências em lojas físicas, é claro que existe gente muito mais capacitada do que UX Designers para fazerem isso. Pelo menos em se tratando de UX Designers que vêem do mundo “web” e têm mais experiência em desenhar interfaces digitais. Grandes redes de varejo pensam nisso há dezenas de anos, e existem profissionais especializados que decidem que os corredores do supermercado serão paralelos e divididos por um grande corredor central, que a altura dos produtos na gôndola deve ser adequada à altura do público-alvo e que a seção de lanches rápidos dá mais resultados se for colocada perto da porta – só para citar alguns exemplos. Ou ainda no caso da Ikea, que resolveu redesenhar suas lojas para criar um grande caminho infinito que força os visitantes a andarem por toda a extensão dela e por todas as seções de produtos.Existe todo um trabalho de logística, merchandising, treinamento de funcionários, promocionamento de produtos, rotação de produtos em vitrines, e mais um universo enorme de decisões estratégicas relacionadas ao ponto-de-venda. Que convenhamos, a não ser que o UX Designer já tenha trabalhado no ramo, é muito difícil de exigir dessa categoria de profissionais.Mas a coisa muda de figura quando você começa a Ou quando você passa a O casamento dos conhecimentos que o UX Designer possui – sobre pessoas e como elas usam interfaces digitais e smartphones – com o conhecimento de um designer especializado em ponto-de-venda pode produzir grandes frutos.Não se trata de uma competição entre esses dois tipos de profissionais, mas sim de um exercício de somar forças para garantir que Entre as perguntas que é responsabilidade dessa dupla responder:E a lista é grande…O interessante é que da mesma forma que UX Designers precisaram desaprender tudo o que sabiam sobre desenhar websites (aqueeeeles, que a gente usava dentro de um browser e controlava com o ponteiro do mouse, lembra?) para aprender como desenharOs princípios são os mesmos – e muitos dos processos de design também. As possibilidades, no entanto, são grandiosas. Talvez você devesse começar a ler mais a respeito.E viva a Experience Design Director @ R/GA NYUsabilidade, Design de Interação, Arquitetura de Informação e outros temas relacionados à area. Textos em português.

The way you experience time changes when you near the speed of light. So what happens when you actually reach it?Each week, If your intuition is to just say, “eight minutes,” I’d have a hard time arguing with you. After all, that’s how much the photon ages If a 0.5 mile (0.8 km) walk to the store takes eight minutes, and you walk to the store, you age eight minutes. And if the shopkeeper watched you walk to the store, she’d know you aged eight minutes, too. If all we did was adhere to the Newtonian definition of time — with the notion that time was an But if this were the case, the speed of light Imagine you stand still on the ground, shining a flashlight in one direction at an object one light-second away. Now imagine you’re running towards that same object, shining that same flashlight. The faster you run, the faster you’d expect that light to go: it ought to move at whatever speed light-at-rest moves at Why would this be a necessity?I want you to imagine that you’ve got a clock, only instead of having a clock where a gear turns and the hands move, you have a clock where a single photon of light bounces up-and-down between two mirrors. If your clock is Quite clearly, it Since light doesn’t do this — or change its speed-in-a-vacuum under any circumstances — we know this naive picture is wrong.In 1905, Einstein put forth his theory of special relativity, noting that the failed Michelson-Morley experiment and the phenomena of length contraction and time dilation would all be explained if the speed of light in a vacuum were a universal constant, In fact, when you make that eight minute walk to the store, thanks to Einstein’s relativity, the time on your watch — assuming it was super accurate and matched the shopkeeper’s watch exactly before you left — would now read just under The reason is because things This was first realized by one of Einstein’s former teachers, Hermann Minkowski, in 1908, who said:The way this works is that everyone and everything that exists If you move through space So now, with all of that in mind, let’s come to the photon itself. It’s not moving For an observer here on Earth, the light will be emitted from the Sun some eight minutes (more like 8:20) before we receive it, and if we could “watch” the photon travel, it would appear to move at the speed of light throughout its entire journey. But if there were a “clock” on board this photon, it would appear to be entirely stopped to us. While those just-over-eight-minutes would pass as normal for us, the photon would experience absolutely no passage of time.This gets particularly disturbing when we look at distant galaxies in the Universe.The light emitted from them takes The Universe is: Expanding, cooling, and dark. It starts with a bang! #Cosmology Science writer, astrophysicist, science communicator  NASA columnist.The Universe is out there, waiting for you to discover it.

One of the greatest books for User Interface designers is called, not a surprise, This one is about the freedom for the user to explore one interface without suffering any consequences (erros, lost files, lost typing,…). With this in mind, the person will be likely to learn more. Reward your user right when he arrives in your interface (app, website). Make his first task REALLY easy to accomplish — this way he will feel he is on the right track (and so the interface) and thats gratifying! The very first experience is really important, so rethink that tutorial screen you were planning before — does it deserve to be the first experience?Dont make people think about your interface — you already did that! You probably heard the word Basically, you need to give opportunity for the user to change his mind during a task. Its important to make it easy for someone to start a task, stop in the middle and come back to it later to continue from where he left off. Dont ask too much from your user in the beginning (or any time). If you have a form that needs to be filled by the user, try using good defaults, make things optional and think whether you really need that information or not. Also, ask for things with timing: dont ask where the user wants to save a file if he just created it, thats not priority in the moment. Interfaces that allow users to build things, need to support creative work that is done by different steps in a different order. Dont force your user to follow a creation line — unless thats your total intention. If your interface has a pattern inherited from other interfaces (a like button, a save command, …) dont change it — because if you do, it is no longer pattern, it is a new kind of interaction that your user needs to People often have some tiny pieces of time that they use to check email, Facebook or Instagram. So if your app fits inside those microbreaks, make sure your user actually can perform a task whithin that time. Make that activity easy and fast to reach. Most of people usually remember objects related to its spatial location rather than their name. Youll remember that you saved a file in the uper right corner of your desktop, even if you dont remember its name. Its the same with your users, so dont re-arrange your interface once your user learned it. That applies for a change during a task performance. It is This is when you want to do something later and want to set a reminder for yourself. You should help your user to leave some hints to finish a task later, but never change it without asking permission. Actually, don’t change unless the user asks for it (or changes it himself). When it is not possible to avoid task repetition, help the user make it easier. Create shortcuts for the task and smart defaults. Thats pretty straightforward: let the user choose to use the keyboard instead of the mouse. Create again shortcuts, smart defaults, use the tab to provide focus on forms… Im almost sure you already read online reviews to check if a product is good or not. Reviews are a powerful tool to help your user find more information from real people and make up his mind about buying that new phone or not in your website. This one is similar to the number 13, but the difference is that the recommendation of a product comes from someone familiar to the user. If a friend share a link on Facebook, that means this person really think the product is cool and your user will believe, because it is a personal recommendation. Make it easy for your users to share content throught social buttons UI Designer

You’ve been tasked with creating the REST API for a mobile app for tracking health and fitness. You code the first endpoint using the development environment on your laptop. After running all the unit tests and seeing that they passed, you check your code into the Git repository and let the QA engineer know that the build is ready for testing. The QA engineer dutifully deploys the most recent build to the test environment, and within the first few minutes of testing discovers that your recently developed REST endpoint is broken.How can this be? You’ve got thorough code coverage with your unit tests, and all were passing before the handoff to QA. After spending a few hours troubleshooting alongside the QA engineer, you discover that the test environment is using an outdated version of a third-party library, and this is what is causing your REST endpoints to break.This is an all too common problem in software development. Slight differences between development, test, stage, and production environments can wreak mayhem on an application. Traditional approaches for dealing with this problem, such as change management processes, are too cumbersome for today’s rapid build and deploy cycles. What is needed instead is a way to transfer an environment seamlessly from development to test, eliminating the need for manual and error prone resource provisioning and configuration.AWS has long offered services that address the need to reliably and efficiently automate the creation of an environment. Services like Amazon EC2 and AWS CloudFormation allow infrastructure to be managed as code. Through the CloudFormation service, AWS resources can be provisioned declaratively using JSON. CloudFormation templates can be versioned right alongside the application code itself. Combined with the automation capabilities of EC2, this allows for a complex environment to be spun up and torn down quickly and reliably. These are just some of the reasons why AWS is such a good choice for development and test workloads.Container technology, like that being developed by Docker containers use an execution environment called libcontainer, which is an interface to various Linux kernel isolation features, like namespaces and cgroups. This architecture allows for multiple containers to be run in complete isolation from one another while sharing the same Linux kernel. Because a Docker container instance doesn’t require a dedicated OS, it is much more portable and lightweight than a virtual machine.A Docker client doesn’t communicate directly with the running containers. Instead, it communicates with the Docker daemon via TCP sockets or REST. The daemon communicates directly with the containers running on the host. The Docker client can either be installed local to the daemon, or on a different host altogether.There are three key concepts to understand when working with Docker: images, registries, and containers.An image is the build component of a container. It is a read-only template from which one or more container instances can be launched. Conceptually, it’s similar to an AMI.Registries are used to store images. Registries can be local or remote. When we launch a container, Docker first searches the local registry for the image. If it’s not found locally, then it searches a public remote registry, called DockerHub. If the image is there, Docker downloads it to the local registry and uses it to launch the container. DockerHub is similar to Github, in that we can create both public and private image repositories. This makes it easy to distribute images efficiently and securely.Finally, a container is a running instance of an image. Docker uses containers to execute and run the software contained in the image.You can create Docker images from a running container, similar to the way we create an AMI from an EC2 instance. For example, one could launch a container, install a bunch of software packages using a package manager like APT or yum, and then commit those changes to a new Docker image.But a more powerful and flexible way of creating images is through something called a DockerFile, which allows images to be defined declaratively. The DockerFile syntax consists of a set of commands that we can use to install and configure the various components that comprise the image. Writing a DockerFile is not at all unlike using UserData to configure an EC2 instance after launch. Like a CloudFormation template, a DockerFile can be tracked and distributed using a version control system. You can think of a DockerFile as the build file for an image.First, let’s define a Docker image for launching a container for running the REST endpoint. We can use this to test our code on a laptop, and the QA engineer can use this to test the code in EC2. The REST endpoints are going to be developed using Ruby and the Sinatra framework, so these will need to be installed in the image. The back end will use Amazon DynamoDB. To ensure that the application can be run from both inside and outside AWS, the Docker image will include the DynamoDB local database. Here’s what the DockerFile looks like:The contents of the DockerFile should be pretty self-explanatory. The RUN keyword is used to execute commands. By default, commands execute as the root user. Since we’re using RVM to install Ruby, we switch to the Sinatra user with the USER keyword, so that the Ruby distribution is installed under the user’s home directory. From the point at which the USER command is specified, all subsequent RUN commands will be executed as the Sinatra user. This also means that when the container is launched, it will execute commands as the Sinatra user.The Docker daemon is responsible for managing images and running containers, and the Docker client is used to issue commands to the daemon. So to build our image from the above DockerFile, we’ll execute this client command:Full documentation of the Docker client commands can be found on the After we execute the Sure enough, we can see that Docker created our image, assigned it the tag we specified on the command line, as well as a unique image ID. Now let’s launch a container from this newly created image:This command launches the container and drops us into a bash shell. From here, we can interact with the container just as we would a Linux server. Since we’re developing a web application, we’ll clone our latest version into the container from the Git repository, run our unit tests, and get ready to hand it off to QA. Once the code has been cloned into the container and is ready for testing, we’ll commit our changes in the running container to a new image. To do this, we need to determine the container ID:Next, we run the commit command:Now we have a new container in our local registry:Version 1.1 of our container includes the Sinatra application that will serve up our REST endpoint. We can run this web application as follows:This tells Docker to do the following:The shell script starts up the local DynamoDB database in the container and launches the Sinatra application using the Thin webserver on port 4567. Now if we point our browser on the laptop running this Docker container to Our endpoint seems to be working properly — the activity record was pulled from the local DynamoDB database and returned as JSON from the Sinatra application code.To make this container available to the QA engineer for further testing, we can push it into DockerHub, the public registry. Similar to Github, DockerHub offers both public and private options if we don’t want to make this container available to the general public.The QA engineer will be running this container in EC2, which means we’ll need an EC2 instance configured with the Docker daemon and client software. Assuming we’re going to bring up the EC2 instance and the DynamoDB table using CloudFormation, we can bootstrap in the Docker software installation using the UserData property of the CloudFormation AWS::EC2::Instance type. Here’s what the JSON for provisioning the EC2 instance in CloudFormation looks like:Now when the QA engineer logs into the EC2 instance created by the CloudFormation stack, the image can be pulled from the remote DockerHub registry:The command used to start the container from this image is virtually identical to the one shown above. The one difference is that an environment variable will be set using the “-e” option to start the Sinatra application using the “test” environment configuration. This configuration will use the regional endpoint for connecting to DynamoDB, instead of the local endpoint:Now the QA engineer can access the REST endpoint over HTTP using the public DNS name of the EC2 instance and port number 10001 (this requires a security group rule that allows ingress on port 10001). If any bugs are found, the running container can be committed to a new image, tagged with an appropriate version number, and pushed to the registry. The state of the container will be completely preserved, making it easier for us (the software developers) to reproduce any issues found in QA, examine log files, and generally troubleshoot the problem.We hope this has been a good introduction to Docker, and that you’ve seen how Docker and AWS are a great combination. The portability of Docker containers makes them an excellent choice for dev and test workloads, because we can so easily share the containers across teams. EC2 and CloudFormation make a great combination for running containers in AWS, but the story doesn’t end there. Other services, like AWS ElasticBeanstalk, include support for deploying entire application stacks into Docker containers. Be sure to check out this and the other AWS blogs for more information about running Docker in AWS!Also, check out the next post in this series: Follow us: Amazon Web Services Startup Program. Follow For startups building on AWS.

So you’ve convinced your organization, team, or client that you need to talk to users.Not just usability tests (also important!), but sessions that you’ll conduct at the beginning of your discovery process to help you: explore problems and hypotheses, invalidate assumptions, develop personas, test early prototypes, and figure out the “why”s behind the “what.”This is great news.Except: you don’t have a lot of research chops on your team. Or, you’re the No one is going to become the perfect moderator overnight. In the weeks and months ahead there will be cringe-worthy leading questions, awkward silences, and dozens of precious “why”s left unspoken.But this isn’t life or death, and some learnings are always better than none. With practice, repetition, and a few best practices, your product team can transform into a team of the best user researchers ever.The newer you are to research, the more important it is to come prepared with well-crafted questions about the topics you want to explore. It may feel a little stiff reading them off at first, but it’s better than trying to make it feel organic and ending up with biased findings.This falls into the “minute to learn, lifetime to master” advice pile. It’s essential not to bias the interview by embedding your own assumptions into your questions, but it’s easy to do it unconsciously– especially if the answer seems obvious, or you’re on the spot and didn’t formulate a non-leading question beforehand.2. Good research is about understanding 3. Ideally, an interviews should In addition to thanking your interviewee for their time, breaking the ice with a little small talk, confirming they’ve signed the NDA, and getting permission to record…Use awkward silences to your advantage. The juiciest insights often happen in the spaces between all those well-crafted questions you prepared. Your interviewee wants to fill the silence just as much as you do, so let them!Not leading users isn’t just about asking open-ended questions or putting words in a user’s mouth. One of the most tempting and dangerous ways to get responses that belong in the discard pile is to ask about something that This is an extremely tempting question to ask (especially after your interviewee has reacted positively to something you’ve said or shown them.) But asking this questions is going to give you false positives that can end up mis-informing your design process.Some questions you can ask instead:You can’t ask a recording what they meant later, which is why it’s so important to clarify and dig into what your interviewee is saying Here are some good places to start when it comes to clarifying and probing during an interview:Paraphrasing: great for conversations, bad for interviews. Why? Because you’re essentially putting words in your subject’s mouth — words that are embedded with your own assumptions. Unless you get it totally wrong, your user probably won’t correct you (too much effort, you were close enough…). But just because they don’t correct you doesn’t mean you got the whole story. Instead of paraphrasing, try clarifying questions that are less likely to bias your interview:Confidence is key! If you’re unsure during the interview, your user will be too. Start strong, end strong, and speak clearly and confidently throughout (even if you don’t feel that way yet , you will soon!).A few things to keep in mind:It’s hard, but try to force yourself to listen to your interview recordings so you can reflect on what you’re doing well and what you can get better at. Don’t be scared to ask your teammates for their honest impressions and feedback, too (they’ll especially be able to notice things like your tone and body language).When it comes down to it, user research is all about practice, preparation, and UX  Narrative Building. Co-founder 

VIPER architecture for iOS applicationsAny iOS developer will tell you that iOS apps are built upon the In developing We stumbled upon an architecture called VIPER, which seemed to fit the bill. VIPER was developed by the guys over at Mutual Mobile and they have a nice As stated by its creators, VIPER provides a guide to building an application architecture and can be adjusted to fit individual applications. This will be a discussion of what VIPER is and how we’ve adjusted it to fit our needs.To best understand VIPER, forget everything you know about MVC. VIPER is a new kind of beast (or reptile) and if your mindset is still in MVC land, you’ll have a difficult time accepting VIPER. Imagine that you are starting from square one and have no idea how iOS apps are structured. There is no spoon. There is no MVC.VIPER aims to separate out application concerns into one of several roles:In practice, we’ve found that we use a few additional roles, adding on a data-manager and service layer.Below is a diagram of a typical VIPER “stack” (more on this later) in our app and depicts how we think of VIPER. Each box represents a separate class and each line represents a reference between instances of the two respective classes.Think of each of these classes as a worker in an assembly line. Each class only knows how to carry out a limited set of actions and relies on other classes to aid in completing the task at hand.Let’s first go over the responsibilities of each class, then we’ll give an example of going from user interaction to displaying data to the user.View responsibilities:The view is told by the presenter what to display and it tells the presenter when an event needs to happen.If the view should display an error to the user, the presenter might call a method on the view like:It is then up to the view to display the error as it pleases, which could be in an alert view, a label, or any other way. The key thing here is that the presenter isn’t concerned with the details of how the error gets displayed. It just cares that it If an event occurs such as the user tapping on a “Log in” button, the view might call a method on the presenter like:As we had before, the object making the method call just hands off the task to the next worker in line once it’s completed its job. As far as the view is concerned, it completed its job to detect the user interaction and it is now up to the presenter to deal with the event.Presenter responsibilities:The presenter tells the view what to display and it handles events accordingly.As we just saw, one of the presenter’s duties is to tell the view what to display. To accomplish this task, it also acts as a decorator, or a “presenter”, to format the data for the view so that it can be displayed in a meaningful way.Looking back at our previous error example, the presenter likely received the error in the form of an error object. Instead of handing off the error directly to the view, it determined the appropriate message to describe the error and handed that off to the view.The presenter usually receives event type method calls from two sources: the view and the interactor.The presenter is notified of events by the view and part of its job is to handle those events accordingly. This usually means asking the interactor to retrieve some bit of information or carry out some task.In our log in example, the presenter would have been notified by the view that a log in attempt event had occurred with a specific user name and password. The presenter would then ask the interactor to carry out the attempt by calling the appropriate method on it:You can probably guess what the presenter does now; Nothing. It has carried out its duty of handling the event and it is now up to the interactor to carry on the task.The presenter can also receive events from the interactor. This would happen when the interactor finishes carrying out some task and the user should know about the result.For example, if a log in attempt failed, the interactor might tell the presenter:The presenter would then take this error, convert it into a string that is meaningful for the user, then tell the view to display an error using that string.Interactor responsibilities:The interactor is what performs the business logic of the app that revolves around data.The interactor is the one that knows how to carry out the events that the view notifies the presenter of.For example, suppose that in your app some event occurs that requires two synchronous network requests to your backend API. That is, request B cannot be executed until request A finishes because request B requires information that is in the response of request A. This would start out with a call to the interactor from the presenter:One thing we must bring up here is that the interactor itself does not deal with network requests directly. In fact, it doesn’t even know that network requests are occurring. All it knows is that it can get data in the form of Here we see that the interactor calls the necessary methods on the data manager and then calls back to the presenter with the result. The key thing here is that the interactor Data manager responsibilities:The data manager is the one that knows where to retrieve data from and if it should be persisted or not.As we saw in the interactor example, we should be able to query the data manager for data and just get the correct entities back. We don’t care where the data comes from because the data manager handles that.The data manager knows exactly where to retrieve specific data or carry out certain requests. For example, the interactor might request a user object from the data manager:If this is an app that is backed by a backend server, the data manager would know that it has to eventually make a network request to retrieve user data. If this is an app that is not backed by a backend server, the data manager might retrieve the user data from a local persistent store instead. For network requests, we like to have the data manager query Service objects:We’ll get into Service objects soon, but the key here is that the data manager knows what service to use to retrieve specific information. Once that information is received, it relays the information back to the interactor.Persisting data is also concern of the data manager. It knows when it should store data such as data fetched from the server that it might store for caching purposes. The main thing here is that no other class knows that any data is persisted because the data manager abstracts that away. A simple example of this is a modification of the code above:Let’s break this down:Persisting data is a huge topic all on its own and can be implemented many ways. This example just serves as a simple instructional schema, but the idea of abstracting all of this behind a data manager is one of the points of VIPER.Service responsibilities:Service objects are not necessary in VIPER, but one that we have found very useful.We’ve found Services to be a nice way to keep code concerned with network requests For example, you may have a Service for a user entity. The header file for this class might look like the following:This service knows how to create a user, log a user in, and fetch a user object. Something like fetching a user object for a given ID is something that is likely to be used in multiple places in an app, which is where service objects come in handy in keeping things DRY.Entity responsibilities:Entities are pretty straight forward and what you would expect. They embody some type of data and act as the “payload” that gets passed around between the other classes. For example, the data manager returns an entity to the interactor, which returns an entity to the presenter, which then uses that entity to tell the view what it should display.Wireframe responsibilities:The router/wireframe is what glues all of the other VIPER components to one another and handles navigating from one view to another in the app.You might be wondering how all of these VIPER classes get instantiated and wired up to talk to one another. That’s where the router/wireframe comes in.In VIPER, every “stack” consists of a view, presenter, interactor, data manager and services (for us anyways), and entities. This “stack” is what VIPER refers to as a For example, one use case that is common for many apps is allowing the user to log in with an account. For this, we would have a VIPER module specifically for the “Log in” screen of the app. This module would have:As you’ll notice, the view, presenter, interactor, and data manager are very specific to this module. That is, they only know how to deal with things related to logging in. The services and entities on the other hand are very general things that can be used throughout many different modules. In this case, the service might be one that knows how to hit all the endpoints related to Users on your server. This might include logging in, signing up, or just retrieving general User data. Then entity you might use here would be a User entity, which just represents a User object. It’s easy to see that this entity can be used in many places in your app.Now that we’ve explained what a VIPER “stack” or The wireframe’s other alias, router, is what makes up the For example, suppose you have an initial screen in your app that is your typical home screen for an app that requires user accounts. This screen would have a button for “Sign up” and a button for “Log in”. This screen is a module; let’s call it the registration prompt (naming is hard). The use case here is that the user should be able to see their options before being logged in to your app. When the user presses the “Log in” button, the typical flow is:Now, the registration wireframe will instantiate the log in wireframe, thereby instantiating an entire VIPER module, and present the log in view over the registration view (maybe as a modal).After using VIPER, we’ve found it to be very beneficial in many ways. Let’s get back to the list of things we set out to accomplish when architecting our app to see if VIPER addresses them.One thing that is very helpful in adding features to an app is knowing where new code should live in relation to the old code. VIPER does a good job of this with each of its components having a clear set of responsibilities that doesn’t bleed into one another, which makes it easy to decide where to put new code.I often find that when I’m adding new features to a module, it almost feels like an everyday routine because I already know where each piece of code should be placed and it’s just a matter of getting it done.That being said, we do run into situations in VIPER where we’re unsure of where to place some piece of code and we have to make a judgement call. For example, if the user can select multiple items in a list before performing some action on them all, should we keep this state in the view, presenter, or another other class in the VIPER stack? Once you figure out what makes most sense to you, you can bypass these problems in the future easily because you’ve solved them already. Then everything becomes routine again.VIPER makes working in a team surprisingly easy. Because use cases are separated into different modules, you don’t step on other people’s toes since all the code for one feature is usually compartmentalized into its own module.In practice each of the VIPER components interact with one another via an interface. In objective-C this is just a protocol. The nice thing about this is that you can define the interface between two classes and then separate people can work on those classes individually. We’ve had much success with this by defining the view-presenter interface ahead of time and having one person work on the view doing purely UI work and another person work on the rest of the VIPER stack doing purely “backend” work.With each VIPER module abiding by the Single Responsibility Principle, VIPER naturally separates out concerns among classes. This is what makes the former two points (and the last point) work out so nicely.By having separate components that follow the Single Responsibility Principle, this also makes things easy to spec. It gives you the ability to spec specific functionality while stubbing out other dependencies. For example, if you want to test your interactor logic, all you have to do is stub out the presenter and the data manager to eliminate the dependencies that can make writing specs complicated. Then your specs will only be testing the interactor and you can write separate specs for the presenter and data manager.Overall we’ve found making the switch to VIPER to be very helpful and beneficial to us for the reasons mentioned above. There are of course many obstacles you will encounter in using VIPER that will require you to mold VIPER to your needs, but that is true of any architecture you choose to go with.I would definitely recommend others to try out VIPER and also to take a look at the other blog posts on it. Hopefully this post has been helpful and gotten some of you excited to try out VIPER.Additional Reading:Restoring our democracy, one line of code at a time.

When a digital product launches, one hopes it’s met with user elation, high retention rates, and feedback that lets you sleep at night. The following story is about my experience when this does not happen and the critical role user testing can play in unifying a team to react and rise to make the hard decisions necessary to improve the product.During my first week as a Product Designer at We had metrics which told us there were problems, but they didn’t provide enough insight to justify a major product pivot. We required the “why” for the drop off rates — was it due to the visual design, content, or interactions?The team had varied opinions on what to do, but there was growing concern that something needed to change. We were faced with a critical product decision: did we have enough information, understanding, and empathy to change the product and improve user retention? Or did we need to go back to the drawing board, starting with user testing on our launched product?We concluded there were more questions than answers and we needed to go back to our users for future direction. The team had done some pre-launch user testing via usertesting.com, but unfortunately not all the observations were acted upon before launch.Herein lies one of the most common issues I’ve run into around user testing— lack of documentation and support across the team. If user testing was going to be our main tool for moving forward with this product, we had to be sure it involved the entire team and that everyone was behind it.This meant that user testing had to result in a clear understanding of the problem, but most importantly, it had to be the primary instrument for unifying the team under a common direction. Until Codecademy, I had not seen how important this second factor can be and while not revolutionary, it’s a small change in the process that can have a massive impact. We set up the user testing in two rooms and hacked the rooms together using You don’t have to be a designer or researcher to observe a user testing session. Yes, it’s critical that the person conducting the test is well versed in this usability practice, but the more observations you get from varied sources, the better. We encouraged participation by emailing everyone in our company with a schedule of the sessions, and let them know in team meetings that we wanted their feedback during each session.As we learned before this process, without documentation and exposure, user testing quickly loses it’s impact. Good documentation happens before the first session begins, by telling all team members who join exactly what is expected of them. Once the session is over, we close the door and go around the room to register each team member’s observations on a whiteboard.At the end of the small batch of user testing we had half of our entire company involved (yes we’re only 25, but still!) This made for stronger clarity on the problems we set out to solve and a shared agreement on the priority of features amongst developers, designers, founders.At Codecademy, user testing is becoming an integral tool in our product development and we look forward to sharing more stories and getting feedback on our process!Product Designer Lessons learned while teaching the world to code

Personal essays are very popular on the internet right now. Like This guide comes at you in the form of questions. None of these questions have right or wrong answers, and ultimately I do not have any stake in whether or not you or anyone else eventually publishes a personal essay online. This guide is essentially a refined version of the questions I ask myself before sitting down to write a first-person piece of nonfiction writing for publication on the web. The thoughts contained herein are necessarily informed by the highly specific condition of existing online and in the world as me. Existing as you is different, so I can’t really promise anything more than a set of concerns that my own experience has proven worth highlighting. Both feelings and the internet share an unpredictable volatility, so your own results will almost certainly vary.Before you sit down to write your personal essay for eventual publication online, it is useful to interrogate your motives. There are lots of reasons people publish stories about their own lives on the internet for others to read: in pursuit of glory, for attention, to vent, to share joy, in hopes helping others, in hopes of helping them self, out of spite, out of financial necessity, out of political angst, to prove they can do it, to one-up an enemy, or in order to exact revenge. These reasons and others are entirely valid, but in the vast majority of cases, a published essay is not the most efficient or effective means of accomplishing them. Which introduces the question:You’ve broken your leg. You call your mother crying, and she tells you to go to the hospital. At the hospital, you fill out forms before seeing a doctor. Later that week in therapy, you express frustration that you will need to wear a cast to your friend’s wedding. Fifty years later, at the couple’s anniversary party, you browse old photos of the wedding and laugh together about how stupid the cast looked with your outfit.The above situation tells several versions of the same story, each accomplishing something different. The phone call to your mother serves as an immediate emotional response to the situation, or rather, a literal cry for help. The hospital forms tell the story of the leg-breaking in the sparsest terms possible, with many facts and zero analysis or emotion. At therapy, you analyze the experience and your various frustrations in a self-gratifying way in hopes of coming to terms with the situation. The eventual retelling at the anniversary party is highly romanticized, glossing over the initial pain of the experience for the purpose of generating some bonding nostalgia between friends.Just like each account of this incident accomplishes something different, so would a retelling in the form of a personal essay.Allow me a technical moment:In this sense, the essay is a good match for many personal experiences, because often in life our personal experiences don’t end in a way that is fully finished or easy-to-understand. That said, a good essay is hard to execute, especially when it focuses on something of intense personal value.Anything you write must contend with the fact that readers read selfishly. You are a reader right now, and there is no doubt you are reading selfishly too — looking for ways that the information from this guide can be of relevance to your own life and interests. This is not to say that all personal essays should be relatable, but rather that care should be taken to make sure that the personal information is presented in a way that offers sufficient value to a reader. Think of the broken leg stories from before. The crying phone call makes sense as a phone call, but but would likely feel too irrational masquerading as an essay. Similarly, the hospital forms would read as too dry to hold anyone’s interest. The therapy session is too self-serving for an outside reader to feel any investment of their own, and the nostalgic story is too specific to be enjoyed by anyone who wasn’t there when it happened.Aldous Huxley called the essay a three-poled tent, suggesting that a great essay includes: 1) something personal to the writer, 2) something factual or objective, and 3) something analytical or universal. Unless your story is wildly exceptional (most stories aren’t) or your voice is wildly unique (most voices aren’t), your experience probably won’t thrive as a personal essay without two or more of these poles in place. To consider the broken leg example again, an essay about how you broke your leg and cried is probably boring. An essay about breaking your leg and waiting for ten hours in the failed American emergency room system offers a more factual, newsy approach. An essay about feeling powerless and frustrated in the face of bureaucracy could ground that factual, newsy approach in a more universal idea, making for an essay that has all three tent poles in place. Not every essay needs to appeal to every reader, but an essay with all three poles will probably be rich enough to appeal to readers who do not share your exact same lived experience.Essays, like songs or sports games, are filled with moving parts that accomplish different things. Not all personal experiences will make sense in those terms, so finally, ask yourself:If you’ve considered these ideas, and still feel like publishing a personal essay, congrats! In A Pandaemonium Revolver Collection. Season 2 stars 

You know that feeling when you discover If you find yourself enjoying an app or a service and you keep coming back to it every day, it’s most likely because you trust that your actions and intentions will be Learning products are meant to build trust. Learning is not a game. It can be playful and contain game-like elements, but that’s just part of the mechanics of it. The ultimate goal, the promise of what you can do when you master what you’re studying, cannot come in the shape of a small app. It comes from a whole ecosystem of products, materials, services and experiences in real life.Now, quickly bouncing back to delight, A great app, a beautiful device, an outstanding service, a solid brand; all of them have something in common: If you over do it, and when everything is playful, how do you expect users to find a new source of delight? Or more importantly, how do you echolocate said Emotions are a very personal thing, and Note that you could even replace these binaries of Want/Found with Need/Learned, Request/Received or Expect/Experienced and still have a valid argument. The gap-closing principle is the same.After a decade of working on storytelling, animation, branding and product design, I’ve had a good exposure to ideas and actions that I can now share with you. Below, you will find 6 principles that I always keep at hand when I build products. These are not formulas or universal truth, but they will These principles might not bring you all the answers to the diverse design challenges we all face when we create meaningful experiences for people, but it will help you to quickly build a ‘check list’ to see whether you’ve been spending a bit too much time thinking outside the box.How can you use these principles? The easiest way is to turn each one of these lines into a question when you’re going through grooming stage with your team, sprint planning or retrospective meetings. Think of these as the outermost layer of your enclosed experience. You have to flesh out the details and add more substance to each one of these.Good luck! ☺Creative Director at 

Interaction Design never fails to present interesting aspects of human thinking to me each day. Especially, how we as engineers and geeks think about our users.Quite often I’ve had my developers pose the following questions to me when I’m pushing hard for a new feature.Initially these questions bothered me. In fact, once we rolled out an ugly “Flag as Inappropriate” way before we had a “Like” button! How crazy is that?!Now such questions just amuse me! For one simple reason-In this essay, I investigate why users create junk and present my argument on why I believe we should all trust our users.A lot of times we leave our users in the dark trying to figure stuff out on their own. In their ambitious quest for understanding your app they inevitably create junk or unwelcome content.That’s exactly what users feel, left alone in our seemingly “intuitive” app!Just having a sign-up tutorial with a jazzy image carousel usually does not make the cut! Our users deserve more directions to create greater content.Great content apps typically use two techniques to incentivise their users.One technique is by giving out direct incentive like “credits” for creating quality content (Ergo — Unless users understand the incentives of creating quality content, they would usually create crap! Simple.Face it. Power users are the only family your early-stage product has! They help nurture your pixels and code into a quality content platform. Hence, it’s really important that such power users feel important and special in our app.Giving out extra capabilities to curate  moderate content being generated could be a good start (a la StackOverflow, Reddit). But I think it needs to go another step further. We need to provide prime placement to such power users where they can show off their creations. Many successful content platforms are already doing this, for example Showcasing content not only directs the community toward your ideally desired direction, but also educates new users by example. This becomes crucial for new content platforms to avoid junk.In conclusion, if there is one lesson from this essay I’d like you to take back home, It is this —Find me on Twitter Until next time. ☺Designer 

I love learning. When I find a new perspective, or I’m taught something new, I feel like I’m growing. A usability test is used to identify where users struggle to use a product for its intended purpose. For my usability test of Quora, I kept an open mind about how a user might encounter Quora the first time. I recruited five potential Quora users according to these qualifications:I asked the participants to explore Quora as if they were alone at home, speaking their thought process aloud. I recorded their actions and comments in order to categorize their pain points and identify patterns in the way they used the product.Click Before diving into the details of my recommendations, I want to provide a quick recap of Quora’s on-boarding flow.Note: users who sign up with Facebook will skip steps two, three and four and go directly to step five. Only one participant signed up with Facebook.The current design was not successful in convincing the participants Quora would provide enough value for them. Three out of five participants said they would not continue signing up if they were at home by themselves.I recommend placing a link to the “Top 20 Questions” on Quora on the landing page. This would allow users to preview the Quora experience before they commit to sign up.The current topic picker is not effective in generating a relevant feed, becauseI recommend changing the topic picker to allow only sub-topic level selection. In addition, I recommend adding a search function so that users can quickly find topics of their choice. This change will allow users to choose topics that more closely fit their interests which will in turn improve the quality of their feed.Quora uses Facebook information to generate more relevant feed. But, unfortunately, all applicable participants forgo this step.The current value proposition speaks to human’s tendency to conform to the social norm. However, my study demonstrates that this is not an alluring enough reason—zero participants connected their Facebook accounts. Instead, I recommend providing tangible examples of how Facebook friends info is used to improve the feed.Alternatively, I recommend removing this step completely. Considering that the participants have intentionally chosen not to sign up with Facebook on the landing page, it may be difficult to convince them to provide Facebook credentials at this step. A/B testing can be used to evaluate if removing this step results in more people completing the on-boarding process.Participants chose not to follow these recommended users because their credibility was unknown.This can be improved by displaying the objective qualifications of these recommended users. Examples include achievements on Quora or professional experience imported from the networking site LinkedIn. Figure 6 shows an example.(It seemed that Quora was doing some A/B testing on this. The dialog only showed up to three out of four participants who chose to sign up with Google account or email.)Some participants were surprised to find unanswered questions appearing in the feed. They expected Quora to impress them with high quality content instead of asking them to contribute right away.My recommendations are:This way, we can still surface the unanswered questions but can also avoid surprising first time users.Implementing changes to a product is a risk, but further analysis and usability research can mitigate the risk.I am a firm believer in the Lean cycle: Build, Measure, Learn. Iterating this way helps ensure that products continually improve. I recommend Quora:I hope my suggestions are helpful to their team.Product Manager, Life long learner

We pulled our notes out of Evernote and posted them here as a list of experience mapping tools for ourselves — and for you too.Experience mapping is best learned by doing, but these tutorials are a good resource for your first experience map.A list of books to learn more about experience mapping.Introductory videos about experience mapping.Tools and mobile applications to record customer insights, convert maps into digital formats and capture images of your Post-it note covered experience map.Mobile applications to help your customers record their service interactions for use during the experience mapping workshop.Free templates and downloads of experience maps.A list of common materials required for an experience mapping workshop.Experience mapping can also be called:Service Design Director at Articles on customers, service design and creativity.

A friend recently sent me an email with screenshots describing KP.org’s workflows for sending a message to a doctor. He was telling me how painful the process is. Of course in my head I thought “it’s 2014…how bad can it be.” After reviewing his screenshots, I wasn’t entirely sure it could get much worse.How bad? We’re talking GoDaddy 2006 type of bad. Network Solutions (pick any year, ever) type of bad. A total disaster.Let’s start with the following user story and evaluate the workflow process: “Let’s look at some ‘before and after’ redesign screens for KP.org. For a more detailed understanding of the type of criteria we evaluate for user experience, go here One thing to note is that Kaiser probably has legal text mandates that must remain intact. As much as we might like to remove large blocks of text to clean things up, I’m sure their legal department would have a lot of things to say about that.After I’m a paying customer, I don’t need to be ‘sold’ much more stuff. I don’t need to feel the ‘vibes’ of KP.org. For me as a paying customer, my intent has changed from reviewing plans and information (consuming content) to actually doing stuff related to my healthcare (utility). We can replace the messages list with a modern interpretation that is much more informative and useable. With a new interface we can:To start we’ve moved all the disclaimer and help text to the right column. We also end up with a the form above the fold. We’ve added a special ‘Reply’ view that shows the existing conversation above the form so we have context when replying. We’ve also made the action buttons more visible.Author of Rocket Fueled Process (

As a A good practice for solving This is only the tip of the iceberg. If you are interested in joining this movement, I’ll leave you with one of the sharper statements I’ve come across in José Argüelles’ foundational work on this subject:— José Argüelles, Author of Time and the TechnosphereCo-Founder Stories dripping with non-causal relativity and wonder

I work in the startup world, a world of minimal viable products (MVPs). When launching a new product, the general rules are shipping first, iterating later and remembering ‘function before form’ throughout.I strongly believe in all of the above, but I can’t help but feel that this formula could be drastically improved…There’s no better feeling than when you’ve jumped the gun and launched a product before your competition, especially when it’s a product with a beautiful, intuitive user experience. Throw in some well-crafted functionality and that is a winning situation right there, right? Well, I think it could be better. I think you can achieve all of the above, without skimping on design. People seem to forget; what does a user do before they use? They see.You have to start at the beginning. A user’s first experience of your product is how it looks, before they get chance to interact. From that first impression, which takes only seconds, does that product appeal to them? It should if they fit into the target audience category. Does the design portray the brand, it’s values and mission? It should if you’ve done your research. Is the product clearly defined? Have you improved the overall user experience and flow? All of these questions should be top of your list. This process of constant evaluation is an essential mix of creativity and logic, which falls under the label ‘design’.So why, when it comes to MVPs, do so many people think it’s alright to ship and iterate but leave out the essential factor of design? Why do I keep seeing it? Or not seeing it, as the case may be…How can you afford to miss out such a huge part of a new product? Design is how you target your audience and connect instantly with them. Without communicating to the right audience, how will your product succeed?My favorite example would be I think the formula is strong but it needs that missing factor. By all means, don’t stop shipping things quickly or putting function before form, but also make sure that the solid design aspect is there too, from the very start.What does a user do before they use? They see.Founder of  UX Designer at 

I’ve been asked this question again and again.We all have experienced poor product. Software with missing important features, website’s navigation which sucks and very confusing, physical product which could not make up your expectation. A poor user experience can lead to feelings of frustration, anger and confusion.This is just a glance of how UX is linked with Psychology. There are many other psychological areas directly relate to UX including social influence, memory, decision makings, etc. UX with psychological perception helps in giving users an enjoyable experience with social relationships and emotional engagements.Entrepreneur. Designer/Developer. UI/UX Consultant. Photographer. Coffee Connoisseur. Purveyor of fine mischief. All things about UX and how can we improve it?

Recently there have been some interesting articles about how the graphic user interface we’ve had on our screens for many years is gradually being replaced by a new user interface — the conversation.Earlier this month, Matt Gilligan wrote on his Medium And just a few days ago, WIRED magazine had an article titled “Some of this is a result of the fact that people are more often using the web on their smart phones and tablets than on laptops and desktop computers. With bigger screens, the older devices have more room for a nice graphic interface than smartphones — even the newest smart phones that always seem to be bigger than the previous generation.And many people communicate much of the day through conversations that are composed of text messages. There’s a good listing of some of the more innovative text apps in “The idea of a conversational interface is also a reflection of the use of various personal assistants that you talk to, like Siri. These, of course, have depended on developments in artificial technology, in particular the recognition and processing of natural (human) spoken language. Much research is being conducted to make these better and less the target of satire — like this There’s another branch of artificial intelligence research that should be resurrected from its relative oblivion to help out — expert systems. An expert system attempts to automate the kind of conversation — especially a dynamic, intelligent sequence of questions and answers — that would occur between a human expert and another person. (You can learn more at In the late 1980s and early 1990s, expert systems were the most hyped part of the artificial intelligence community.As I’ve But expert systems work didn’t disappear altogether. Applications have been developed for medicine, finance, education and mechanical repairs, among other subjects.It’s now worth raising the profile of this technology much higher if the conversation becomes the dominant user interface. The reason is simple: these conversations haven’t been very smart. Most of the apps are good at getting basic information as if you typed it into a web browser. Beyond that? Not so much.There are even very funny videos of the way these work or rather don’t work well. Take a look at “In its simplest form, expert systems may be represented as a smart decision tree based on the knowledge and research of experts.It’s pretty easy to see how this approach could be used to make sure that the conversation — by text or voice — is useful for a person.There is, of course, much more sophistication available in expert systems than is represented in this picture. For example, some can handle probabilities and other forms of ambiguity. Others can be quite elaborate and can include external data, in addition to the answers from a person — for example, his/her temperature or speed of typing or talking.The original developers of Siri have taken what they’ve learned from that work and are building their next product. Called “Personally I like the shift to a conversational interface with technology since it becomes available in so many different places and ways. But I’ll really look forward to it when those conversations become smarter. I’ll let you know as I see new developments.Senior Fellow, Intelligent Community Forum; Co-Founder, Gotham Innovation Greenhouse.  Former Director, Cisco IBSG Public Sector  CIO Westchester County, NY

I was listening to Design Details today and Jon Lax brought up a term I hadn’t heard of yet. “Jobs to be done”. Its a “framework” that Clay Christensen and Bob Moesta came up with. A way to figure out what “Job” we as comsumers are hiring our products to do for them. A couple things that Jon said that stuck out to me were:He points out that as designers our job is to figure the problem. Designers need a box. They need constraints. We need to know the problem we’re trying to solve or the goal we’re trying accomplish then we can roll up our sleaves and get to work.Jon also referenced this quote:What he was getting at hear really was customers are buying the outcome, not the tool. Its our job to understand what our customers problem is, customers can’t always articulate well what that problem is, they just know that they have it. We need to figure out what they’re looking to accomplish and we can work through how to get there.The more I think of User Experience Design or Product Design or whatever you want to call it. This is what its about. Figuring out what the experience that needs to be had. When I figure out what that problem is, refining solutions to solve that problem in creative interesting ways becomes so much more fun. I can see the path to solutions more clearly. When I know the “Job” my product is getting hired for from the consumer. All the experiments, features, apps, etc. have more meaning because I know that if the product just fulfills that job I know it will be sucessfull.Husband  Father of 4. Mobile Product Designer 

A discussion about modern consumer product or experience design will rarely occur without reference to some sort of computer interface. Whether screen based, bio-metric or gestural, ambient or any mode among of myriad of emerging interface types; modern consumer experiences are heavily shaped by interfaces. Given the important role interfaces play in consumer marketing (and society at large), it is no wonder that intelligent groups of people; from marketers and product managers to designers and business strategists, hold endless dialogue regarding interface design. A question that I find often lacks consensus is, “is the practice of designing user interfaces a truly creative one?” I have my opinions, but I keep an open mind. First let’s define our terms. A widely accepted definition of “creativity” involves, “the use of the imagination or original ideas”. Despite my skepticism around the prevalence of truly original ideas, when a truly original idea enters the world it inevitably contains a certain amount of risk. Regarding user interfaces, the specific risk in implementing a truly original concept is whether or not people will understand how to engage with it. Lack of precedent often leads to misdirection and ultimately user frustration. Demanding that people learn an entirely new behavior is risky. A user must see significant benefit prior to engaging with a product if they are to consider exploring an unknown interface. And thus the notion of pure creativity in interface design should be examined closely before deployment.I am reminded of the incredible hype around the app, Color. Given the notoriety of its founder and the unprecedented level of capital raised prior to the formation of a clear product concept, many of us felt compelled to give Color more than a fair chance when it finally came to market. Alas, most of us never really understood the value of the app and On the flip side let’s look at Tinder. Tinder employs a somewhat Despite fan fair in design communities around Tinder’s unique UI; this was not the reason why the app was so successful. I am reluctant to even call the UI creative. The success of Tinder was an As we begin to design interfaces for all sorts of new products and services I want to hear your thoughts on the role of creativity in the practice of interface design. Is there a role for creativity or does objectivity reign supreme? Sure, innovation must live in the objectivist’s toolkit, but need it be called upon in all instances or, is the interface designer’s main objective to become elegantly invisible?Spending too much time thinking about things since 1977. Thoughts are my own and do not reflect the ideas of anything that is not bald.

by Marti A HearstA couple of years ago I was miffed about search. I was designing an application like Google Play. Users could come in, view and review applications, and add them to their list of apps.I looked everywhere for design patterns on users searching in applications, faceted search, and advance searching. All I heard was, “Look at Google” or “Look at Amazon”. I love me some Google and Amazon, but their design patterns establish them as paragons of best search practices for the big guys — how about us small guys making a difference to a few thousand users (and not the whole world). Luckily I do have some friends who work for the giants in the industry. Here is what they all told me, “go read ‘They were right.This book is the most comprehensive explanation of all things Search. It is one of the top five books that I regularly return to. There isn’t a web app out there these days that doesn’t deal with the complexity of data and being able to help the user navigate reams of data in an easy to understand way. This book helps me every time.The biggest thing that people get out of the book is a good explanation of information foraging (Chapter 3). Think about all of us being hunter-gathers in the wild of information overload. We use the “scent” of information to help us find what we are looking for. Constructing an interface that supports a user detecting an “information scent” is critical for a good user experience. This book explains the research to help support that foraging.Additionally, here are a few key nuggets I got out of the book that I regularly use. The first nugget is what to do if the user’s search results aren’t on the first page (or at best, the second page). It turns out that research shows that users don’t go digging through pages, they reformulate their keyword search. This seems intuitive, but arguing it with developers (“WE NEED TO WORRY ABOUT THE 5th PAGE OF RESULTS” they shout at me) has been costly. Instead, I just point at the reseach and they simmer down. Here is another gem, faceted search is only as good as the facets. Again, seems intuitive, but if you have a dynamic data set, creating “standard” facets can be difficult.Here is the thing that might make you worry. It was writen in 2009. That is at least a few years old and the research inside of it is even older. Have no fear. It turns out that searching is kind of a complex thing and research that is even a few years old is still really on-the-mark. But, if you are looking for a book to show really beautiful visual design patterns, this isn’t going to be the book for you. Most of the interfaces are prototypes and definitely aren’t the prettiest princesses in the land.The truth is that we can’t ignore search. Look at iTunes. It used to be about listening to music and finding the music in your library. These days it is about navigating its extensive music-related capabilities and People know us. We are important. We have many UX books and our homes smell of coffee and usability studies.

If you are a If you are a It is unnecessary and it is confusing. If you are a User Yes, all you have to do, is walk into your utility store and pick up a white board, a couple of non-permanent markers and a wipe. The you will use it to write your ideas and sketch out your thoughts very rapidly. You probably think that it is a waste of your precious time, but trust me, when you have spent 24 hours designing one high fidelity render on your favorite Photoshop instead of the 2 hours that I normally spend, you should know that need to start your UX Journey on a white board. If you don’t want to use a white board, it is perfectly alright, you can continue being inefficient.A freebie for all members of Smashing Magazine – outline is a set of 28 printable sketching and wire-framing papers (in PDF) for seven mobile platforms. With Tapsize, you can determine the optimal tap area without having an actual device. Just print the screen you need.According to their site – MindNode makes mind mapping easy. I prefer to say that Mind maps are a visual representation of my ideas, starting with a central thought and growing from there. I use it aggressively and it allows me to brainstorm  organize my thoughts in an intuitive way, so I can focus on the idea behind it. It has also been featured by Apple as an “App Store Best”, MindNode has helped students, artists and project managers to be more creative with less effort. If you want to work like a UX ninja, you need Mindnode in your itinerary of design tools.Rumor has it that millions of people use XMind to clarify thinking, manage complex information, run brainstorming and get work organize for their UX projects. What I discovered was that XMind is not only an open source project, but it is also free to download and free to use forever and ever, Amen. XMind shines as a mind mapping tool that doesn’t get in the way as the ideas come flooding out of your head. The mind maps and other charts it produces are attractive and simple to create.Usability testing is a technique used in user-centered interaction design to evaluate a product by testing it on users. This magical UX tool that is developed by the team at ClearLeft, Silverback is a user-testing tool that enables you to run cheap and simple usability test studies with only a Mac computer, but of course, every designer in the world uses a Mac. Some claim that its downside is that Silverback is a Mac-only application, but I beg to differ. If you are designer and you are on a Mac – you need to seriously start thinking about your future and make the right decisions. You need a Mac. Full stop.True to what the makers claim, UXArmy platform is a complete and comprehensive UX testing solution that enables you to elicit feedback from real end users over the Internet objectively, quickly and at low cost. This awesome platform even goes as far as tracking and capturing sampling users’ interactions on your websites, as well as the time they spent on the site, the number of clicks they made on each page, users’ navigation paths on the site, their preferences over different designs, and their mouse cursor movements in order to give you a little big data from where to build your UX Case study. If you thought that you could get away from building real UX Case studies in your budding career, think again – its is part of the job.I was very skeptical about this software and its methods of collecting usability data – but after a couple of projects, I was very pleasantly ejected from my misgivings and it has become one of my favorite tools. You just specify the tasks that you want users to perform.They recruit my target audience from a panel of a million odd users. And I feel like a boss as I watch videos of users on my site or app explaining where they get stuck.No UX expert should be called one if they do not know or have never used A/B testing. It is very simple: You create two variations (A and B) of a page and then determine which one produces better results measured in terms of purchases, newsletter sign-ups, or other factors you value, which reflect a better user experience and help you decide which areas need more work and which ones are spot on. There no equal to Optimizely to act as your on-demand technical team, with technology that turns my creative changes into instantly generated and deployed code, I cannot survive without it.Wireframing focuses on what a screen does, not what it looks like. They can be pencil drawings or sketches on a whiteboard, or they can be produced by means of a broad array of free or commercial software applications. Wireframes are generally created by business analysts, user experience designers, developers, visual designers and other roles with expertise in interaction design, information architecture and user research.As I have discovered, the highly collaborative approach to UXPin as a tool puts everything I need at my reach. It makes the tasks of designing and editing as a team an exercise in the unbelievably awesome, with its built-from-the-ground-up collaborative methodology and the many follow-on features that support this, like real-time collaborative editing, chat, and dozens of other useful tid-bits that save me hours every day! Trust me, Interface Designer, you need to use this tool to graduate and become that UX guy that you have always dreamed of becoming!For that bustling UXD that has a lot on his plate, you got to love this absolutely minimal and extremely versatile UX wire-framing tool. In short, it is a must for every UX designer in the world worth his salt.Do you want to rapidly communicate and share your ideas? Then InVision will quickly become indispensable. It quickly transform your designs into beautiful, fully interactive prototypes complete with gestures, transitions  animations for web, iOS  Android. It is not only 100% Agile-friendly, but it will simplify the feedback process by having clients  stakeholders leave comments on the design on the fly.Notism is a collaborative tool that lets you share designs and obtain efficient feedback on visual projects from co-workers and customers, create interactive prototypes, add notes to discuss the projects with editors and reviewers and is a great Task management tool.With proto.io you can create high-fidelity prototypes that work exactly like your real app would. Select devices and add components to create your interface. Proto.io was specifically created for mobile, so it can emulate screen transitions, orientation changes or touch gestures. You can now preview your prototype on an iOS or Android device natively, without obstructions and irrespective of the device it was designed for! Download the free app. Turn your wireframes and mobile mockups into amazing interactive prototypes. Filled with rich media, animations and touch events.Axure RP gives you the wireframing, prototyping and documentation tools needed to make informed design choices, persuade any skeptics, and document your design… and maybe win a few fans along the way. Choose the Standard edition for prototyping or go Pro to add documentation and collaboration features.I first stumbled on this awesome tool from a designer called Meng To. Thank you, bro. It easily creates complex shapes with state-of-the-art vector boolean operations and it take advantage of extensive layer styles. It is vector-based graphic design and wire-framing on jet fuel. Fast, accurate, high fidelity and simply awesome.The tools I use on a daily basis are Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator. Photoshop is awesome for on the fly editing of graphics and Illustrator can be used for creating rapid vector graphics. InDesign is unparalleled for creating magazine layouts or building high-fidelity renders of web apps and applications User Interfaces.Kuler is the best online tool for creating the color combinations to use for designs – in fact it is simply priceless. You can even capture an image, upload it to Kuler and it will extract the colors for you.Wikipedia defines UX Design as the process of enhancing customer satisfaction and loyalty by improving the usability, ease of use, and pleasure provided in the interaction between the customer and the product. User experience design encompasses traditional human-computer interaction (HCI) design, and extends it by addressing all aspects of a product or service as perceived by users. User experience is any aspect of a person’s interaction with a given IT system, including the interface, graphics, industrial design, physical interaction, and the manual.The tools outlined in our lengthy article will transform you as you use more frequently and as you read up more articles like this one you will find your methodology changing and perhaps you will change from being just a user interface designer to a fully developed User Experience professional. Yes, you have to learn most of these.Stare long enough at this web architect, social media and brand engineer — I swear youll see my eyes move. Writer at When Only The Best Will Do

Animation has been used as a medium to leverage our wildest dreams in the film and television industry. From creating worlds with castles and dragons; to disparate, cold worlds of technology-driven tyranny. Animation probes our imagination and immerses us in story through motion.In the last two to three years animation has begun to sneak into our digital lives and play with our perceptions, most notably through recent integrations into mobile operating systems and apps. Recently, Google rebranded and incorporated motion even deeper into it’s design ethos. These are attempts at creating ecosystems that leverage time and motion to build unique and more functional experiences.As our devices become more connected and integrated into our lives, people will be looking for seamless experiences. Moments that mirror the physicality we are accustomed to in our day-to-day interactions. If good design is less design, then maybe our integrated products should incorporate the tone of voice they would naturally take if we were to physically interact with them. The flow of things we interact with from the kettle to the temperature of the house, our magazine collection or podcasts and so on all “feel” natural. As if we are just turning another nob or flipping another switch. With this seamlessness we make a digital interface easier to use and easier to discover. We start to blur the gap between physical and digital.Animation in the context of interactive products should be motivated to define functionality, reward, guide, and encourage discovery or exploration. If there is no benefit to your users you run the risk of adding noise to your interfaces and convoluting the experience.I think that considering animation at the beginning of a design process yields a more meaningful integration than if it’s an afterthought. In the beginning you can leverage affordances like feedback or orienting motion to help you make good decisions in the flow. Also, in a prototyping sense you get to see how things could work as a full flow by creating a vision video of a user flow. Prototyping how transitions and certain feature sets work in context will help you make meaningful decisions as you iterate. Leaving animation to the end of a process will reduce the chances of any motion having a retainable impact. It becomes a glitter, something that is interesting but adds no value. That’s not always a bad thing, but I think we can design better software if we consider impact and motivation from the start. You are delivering more delight and functionality and designing for unmet needs by pulling in animation early.The two high level ways animation can influence a project are through voice and functionality.With it’s voice, an app like Mint tells a story that should be trustworthy, communicative, accurate and safe. On the other hand learning a language from the Mindsnacks suite should be fun, engaging, supportive, friendly and rewarding. Establishing how animation works in the context of your app will help you pull users through the experience and tell the brand story.Through functionality you can solve problems about discoverability by creating an animated hierarchy. Maybe some buttons animate more colorfully than others. You can teach users how to navigate using hints instead of meaty on-boarding flows. You can even convey a story about the brand just by dictating that all motion will be fast, mechanical and precision based.The voice of a brand can influence the type of character the motion adopts. A lot of bounce will emit a playful, trustworthy, or maybe even a naive, childish feeling. A sleek ease in or out coupled with little to no overshoot, can make a brand feel sleek, clean, and elite. Snappy motion can create a cold, technological, proficient feeling. “Thundercats”, for instance, is solidly drawn and doesn’t contain much squash and stretch. It feels solid, mature, and sharp. “Tom and Jerry” on the other hand is full of squash, stretch, exaggeration, and all the animation bells and whistles. Creating a more accessible, happy, safe, comedic vibe.Animation at its core is like any other artistic medium, a tool used to tell a story or express emotion. It should delight, it should surprise, and it should most importantly have motivation. The two extremes are playful and tactile; their motions tell different stories. The important thing is to understand how the motion feels. Does it feel aggressive? Soft? Heavy? Sad? Dopey?Motivation is key to all meaningful motion. This motivation will dictate the voice of your animation, and in turn your brand. Is your brand about handmade toys for toddlers or are you showcasing ancient culinary knives from Japan? Your motion decisions should align with the tone of the brand to ensure clarity of the message.Consider the bouncy nature of an app like YouTube Kids or Toca Boca or even interfaces in Mario Kart. There is a good amount of squash and stretch, a healthy dose of anticipation and exaggeration in the movements. It feels soft, playful and accessible. Games are a great example of ecosystems that have more of the playfulness we have come to expect from animation.In the example below you can feel the character and the tone of the ball’s bounce. Cheerful, energetic and warm, perhaps your menu could shoot out from a center point and bounce into place. A play icon could enter and exit the screen. There are a lot of possibilities, but the idea is that this type of motion will yield a specific perception from users.What about apps that have a more serious tone? Like a bank or productivity apps? They are a bit less playful. Clear, Any.do, Mint, or Vsco Cam are utilitarian and give off a more mature, elitist, maybe even trustworthy feel. They are still using motion in a motivated way, but they avoid convoluting their intended experience by not utilizing specific motion qualities. Sharp movements, shallow ease curves all shift the tone into a calmer, particular zone.The below examples feel tactile but have a reassuring quality to them that could exude a friendly vibe. On the left you have a subtle overshoot and some ease toward the end of the movement. This makes it feel a bit more friendly in nature than the example to the right. This is a much more rigid motion that feels cold and utilitarian, almost lifeless in a way. Think about how your menu’s enter and exit. Consider your button feedback or your submit forms, your error messages and so forth. They all have moments that can translate a message to the user about functionality and the voice of the product.When designing an interface we should give context to the user flow. If a navigation sits inside an unconventional menu, how do we teach users the interaction model? Animation gives us framework to push and pull users through time and show them the in-between states of point A and point B. By showing the in-betweens you start building a high level layout of the ecosystem. Google Inbox does a great job of orienting you by always giving you an idea of where you are going and where you have come from in the app.Motion can also help enforce your information hierarchy. It can provide visual feedback and clues to help guide users (A lot of the functional affordances have been outlined beautifully UX choreography uses 5 of the classic animation principles of Disney and applies them to UX and design. The high level overview of those principles includes:A little disclosure: my background is traditional animation, pencil  paper, light disks and To extend a bit on what Rebecca went over, I’d like to add the use of Most things don’t travel in a straight trajectory, they travel in an arc. Consider a baseball pitch — that sucker curves. Even when thrown straight it will dip slightly. When we swing our arms, all the follow through in our limbs create an arched motion path. This is natural, which is also why it’s so pleasing to see. Using arcs will create harmony in motion, they are pleasurable to watch and beg for our attention. Tying back into what I opened with, what is the tone of voice things would take if we physically interacted with them? How and why do these things move? Can we leverage the reality of physical movement to create seamless interactions?In the examples below there is a pleasurable experience in seeing the arcs of the boxes as they expand. Our eyes will follow even a subtle arc, and so utilizing this in our decision making will help orient users to important content. With this knowledge we can make the decision to have specific content move in a way that calls attention to it.Without proper timing, your movie, animation, user interface can be annoying. Timing and spacing dominate all aspects of moving objects. The amount of ease, your holds and oscillations all affect how objects feel and what type of character they have.In a literal sense, timing is important for user retention and noise reduction. Sounds obvious, I know. Since animation is still a budding UX consideration I think it’s worth addressing. Mobile technology is providing affordances in these digital spaces and making our wildest ideas possible (without the use of Flash). We have to be careful to not include animations that don’t make sense. It’s not about the “wow” factor, it’s about the story are we telling, the emotion are we trying to convey. Be careful not to beat your users over the head with flashy animation that takes a long time to load.As designers we should be aware of how long it takes to perceive motion. If it’s too fast it becomes noisy and distracting; too slow becomes annoying to wait for. Avoid getting too deep into glitter and sparkle early on. The experience should be delightful but it should also be functional. As my own rule of thumb, I’ve been creating transitions that are between 0.5 - 2 seconds long. Transitions should orient but not at the expense of a user waiting. Simple gestures and clue’s will more often suffice in orienting.These are merely considerations and thoughts on something that I find exciting. The merger of digital and physical worlds is just insanely cool to think about. Not only are we doing this with the devices in our home and on the go but also in a virtual world as well. It makes sense for us to start trying to use time and space and the affordances of animation to make the digital products we create “feel” seamless.As with all design decisions, ask yourself, “Why?”. Just because we can make something bounce or flair out with ellipses doesn’t mean it makes sense in the context of the brand or the usability of the product. We also can’t animate every button without having a purpose to the life we give it. What is the motivation? Form follows function, and you must consider what function the animation is serving. Are you rewarding users with a delightful badge after they complete 10,000 steps? Is the purpose to orient users to their next point of interest in a user flow? Perhaps they are flipping a switch with heavy implications and so the switch could “feel” heavy. Or maybe it’s to help users understand the functionality of a certain interaction.It’s becoming more apparent that we want to bridge the gap between digital and physical experiences. Considering how motion can help you create a friction free digital ecosystem in the physical sense will add to the blurring of those lines. Motion design is more than making things exciting and beautiful through motion. It is creating a “feel” we are accustomed to in reality and that is important.Designer / animator, coffee, adventure, adventure, adventure. Art Director for 

The aim of this article is to highlight some user experience (UX) problems present on the web today, and provide some potential solutions. To get the ball rolling, I started a sticky note wall in the office to get a gauge what was frustrating people and offered them a chance to provide a solution! Here’s what we came up with.It’s easy when working in a technology based business to assume that everyone has relatively decent broadband. The reality is, a Source: Well, Europe is somewhere in the 15–30MBit spectrum, while it may seem fast you have to remember it’s an average. Residential areas will have much greater speeds, but some businesses in rural or industrial areas could have speeds 5MBit which is cripplingly slow. We should always build websites with the worst possible internet connections in mind, to ensure we maximise usability. That, and it’s just good practice to have a website with a great page load time.I attended a talk recently by Ben Cooper (Front end developer at Sky) which went into page load time in some depth. Essentially, 1000ms is the ‘budget’ we have to work with. Now, that poses as quite the challenge if a website relies on media that will take longer than a second to download on a poor internet connection. So, how do we fix this? There are a couple of things you can do.This can be as simple as introducing a ‘skip video’ button. If the user makes a decision to interact, thinking they’ll get to the next step of their journey quicker, it’s a win. Sure, they’ll miss that awesome video you’ve made but if they aren’t receptive to watching it in the first place, it’s likely it wouldn’t have made an impression.Source: There’s a Also worth a mention when it comes to compression are websites like Introducing scroll-based frame animation is an incredible way of implementing motion and interactivity into your website. Not only does this load quickly due to not needing as many frames as a full video, but it engages the user allowing them to interact with motion more intuitively.See for yourself, the guys over at Lily have put together a neat little example.Source: This problem relates to the previous issue and so the same solutions apply. The UX issue here is the user’s landed with an annoying spinning loading wheel before they’ve made the decision that the content they’re waiting for is worth it. Now, if a quirky and creative animation is built into the pre-loader, it’s likely the user won’t mind having to wait at all as you’ve captured their attention.Start with a still image with a play button and if the user likes the look of it, they’ll hit play. Again this goes back to my point about interaction and if they’ve made the decision to watch, they won’t mind waiting (as much) because they want to watch at this point of their journey.You’ll have to do things this way on mobile anyway, as auto play isn’t a feature in HTML5. So to keep your desktop and mobile experience consistent, design with this in mind.Source: Sometimes pre-loaders are unavoidable, if we a website is transactional and going to require interaction with a database it is likely this data processing will take some amount of time. So, if that’s the case, why not make a feature of it as part of the design? If it’s seamlessly integrated into the web design, the user won’t become as frustrated having to wait for the page to load. It’s great to incorporate a progress bar too, so your users know exactly how much longer they’re being asked to wait. This example from Source: We’ve come to understand that in terms of marketing, popups are effective and ‘Subscribe to our email newsletter’ is a phrase I see all the time and I always think to myself, why should I do that? What are you offering me in return for my data and how do I know you’re not going to spam me or give it to someone who does? It’s safe to say that the user needs reassurance of this. Here’s an example of a great popup design: it makes use of a bold, obvious statement, reinforced by the 3 circles that show the benefits, what I need to do as a user and then a really nice touch of a personal call to action. There’s even a little disclaimer to acknowledge they respect my privacy, all bases covered.Source: It doesn’t matter where you are on the page, it’s always a great idea to give the user controls to jump to sub-sections or indeed, another page of the site. Too often websites are designed with horizontal top navigations that don’t follow you, meaning if you’re on a rather long page have to scroll all the way back to the top just to keep reading more content. It doesn’t make much sense in the user’s journey, having to travel backwards (up the page) to make progress.It’s incredibly simple to do, and means you always have navigation control regardless of page size. This can be in the form of a fixed header, sidebar or even footer. Here’s an example from the Rosenbauer website we designed — it makes a effective use of space that looks great and gives the user total control.Source: These can sometimes be a nice addition to a site if fixing the navigation isn’t an option. A fixed header offers a more preferable solution, but a scroll to top button is a solution nonetheless.Source: One annoying trend that keeps popping up on various news sites lately are paginated news stories. This is when you’re reading an article that says ’50 ways to improve your website traffic’ for example, and then it only posts 7 ways to do it on each page. So to read the entire article, you have to click 8 times.The only real logical explanation as to why websites do this is to bump up the number of impressions for adverts. By doing so, however, it’s absolutely ruining the users’ experience. It’s a simple fix, but of course if a website prioritises impressions over user satisfaction, it’s a problem that I don’t see going away any time soon.Source: When you think about what a user wants, they want all of the content in one sitting without having to be lead down a path constantly picking at breadcrumbs to get more of the story. It makes it easier to read, easier to find specific parts and generally an easier experience all round.If you can relate to any of these frustrations please let us know in the comments below, start up a conversation on twitter or share with your followers on Facebook. Great design does indeed come from solving everyday problems, so the more we understand about user experience, the better we can design every project going forward!Designer and Web Developer at Fantastic Media

By Cruce Saunders, Founder of The era of customer experience management (CEM) is well upon us. The customer is calling the shots and technical communicators are scrambling to deliver the goods across an expanding buffet of audiences, devices and channels.Executive teams realize that positioning involves many channels of storytelling and the means to deliver the organization’s story and promise to customers, and to involve customers as players in the organization’s story.The CEM vision has to be tied together and made operational. The vision cannot remain disconnected from the technical reality of your projects. It all must be aligned.Missing any part of the continuum introduces unsustainable project risk for CEM initiatives, and many technical communicators are considering what new practices to adopt, such as content engineering, to allow for successful cross-channel, and eventually personalized, publishing.It’s hard to know what to ignore. Customer experience matters. App stores and native mobile apps matter. Search engine results matter. Social matters. On-site search matters. Offline experience matters. New devices and channels make the landscape more complex each quarter. To reach diverse channels that content consumers use, every content asset must adapt. Whether text, video, images, tabular data, or audio, content and metadata, it all must meet consumers on the consumers’ terms.Content engineering aligns the right team members to implement a solution that connects content to strategy, creative strategy, and visual design to platform technology.Think of a content strategist (CS) as the CEO of content, and think of a content engineer (CE) as the CTO of content. Each contributes a different perspective and through workflow and governance they help define the “people” and relationships to support content through the entire content lifecycle.Content strategy is about what content gets to which customers, at which touch points. Content engineering is about how content gets to customers.Many technical communicators are already actively engaged in the CE role yet may not identify with the title. CEs work closely with content strategists and developers but remain distinct from these functions. These individuals naturally bridge business strategy and content strategy with design and implementation; who work to marry content technology and content management to the total CEM vision — these are the prime candidates for the content engineering role.The CE translates what is required from the content strategy, and determines in detail how it can be done most effectively. He or she specifies how different audience segments should receive content, how different devices should display content, and how to specify content depending on up-sell or cross-sell potential. The CE develops a detailed content model and taxonomy that provides the framework for these capabilities to be implemented.The developer will take the content deliverable and taxonomy created by the CE, and use this to implement the functionality in code. Normally, the developer will not have the experience in audiences and marketing-oriented business requirements, or expertise building taxonomies or content structuring, and will rely on the CE to specify these requirements.The content strategist, information architect, and CE all play starring roles in crafting personalized customer experiences.CEs add value to CEM projects both in terms of direct responsibilities and deliverables, as well as adding value by collaborating and helping facilitate deliverables from other members of the CEM project team. It certainly takes a village to architect nimble customer experiences.Great CEs are multiplex thinkers, capable of pattern recognition among multiple strata, and multiple dimensions. These individuals naturally connect to the content strategy at a visionary level and map that strategy to all the enabling technologies. Above all, insightful and comfortable communicating between disciplines, they are able to use their cross-functional abilities to see relationships and build information structures others might find daunting.To find the natural born CE’s for your CEM teams look for those who have at least some background as generalist web developers and who additionally exhibit the following characteristics:· They might not be deep · They might not be deep · They might not be expert · They might not be deep · They might not be · They might not be · They might not be · They might not be expert · They might not be Of course the CE must be trained on content modeling, metadata structures, markup, schema, and taxonomy. These elements form the foundation of how content relationships are defined and communicated.It takes simple changes to existing standard workflows to integrate content engineering. So, adding in content engineering simply adds a role, minor process additions and some deliverables to existing process. Moving from static wireframes to interactive prototypes (using Axure or other interactive prototyping tools) is indispensable for CEM. The prototypes are a meeting place for Content Strategy, IA/UX, Content Engineering, Design, and Development to meet and collaborate.Adding content engineering need not disrupt years of careful process development and optimization; it augments and enhances existing process. However skipping content engineering effectively removes the scaffolding for every implementation stage within an effective CEM initiative.Some examples:· Without a content model, · Content authors get stuck into working with static chunks, taxing the authoring process and locking content up into unwieldy containers.· Without a taxonomy and metadata model, the CMS configuration offers no related content organization outside a hierarchical set of content folders, essentially trapping content to an isolated location.· Without identification, and incorporation of schemas and content standards into the implementation, content cannot syndicate across the Internet or be consumed and presented richly by important search engines.For advanced content marketing, content engineering is not nice-to-have or optional. For effective customer experience management, it’s essential.One of the challenges for developing a content engineering program comes in defining the CE’s role in comparison to the market’s evolving definitions. [A] holds that the role of the content engineer is key to success for any complex content-centric project involving content production and software system development.Once the organization is ready for content engineering, it must build a practice and center of excellence around content engineering skills, disciplines and process. Most organizations will find that building a content engineering discipline best starts at home. Find the raw aptitude internally. Train the skills. Augment from the outside. And grow a CE, or multiple. Then start to document and build the practice around those newly minted.To find a CE internally, consider staff aptitudes and interests, and introduce the concepts, seeing what resonates. Key candidates will recognize the role immediately, and gravitate to learning more and practicing in the space. You might find your CE in a business analyst (BA) or marketing analyst, or an experienced web developer that carries strategic and technical perspectives.Build towards talents able to unravel the complexity of your disparate content technologies and strategies. The CE should become a pivotal component of your CEM process; working with internal marketing, agency creative and strategy, and platform and implementation partners.Personalization and a strong customer experience strategy built on adaptive content and responsive design is possible. With help from a CE, the implementation team can bridge the integration gap between content strategy, content management system planning and platforms, and CEM technologies and initiatives.Content engineers and content strategists are often senior members of the CEM team, but ultimately both should be integrated into the development workflow.Teams where the strategists develop solutions working with business stakeholders exclusively, and then simply issue them to the development teams, are less likely to succeed. Integrating CSs and CEs into the development cycle improves project success.Content engineering fits well into either an agile or waterfall development lifecycle. Because of the tight alignment between strategy, and application development, integrating everyone into a single workflow ensures communication and integration of disciplines.For more traditional waterfall cycles, content engineering can be considered a phase following content strategy, and then running concurrent to development.In general, for agile teams, a Scrum methodology seems to work well. CE’s get integrated into daily team standups; they also work against a backlog, and tackle work in sprints. They can see their inputs mapped to outputs, and influence ad-hoc decision-making on the part of development teams.It’s important for organizations contemplating developing a content engineering practice to understand that content engineering adds significant time and cost up front, but saves even more time and cost on the backend.Whichever methodology is chosen, just know that content engineering is iterative and collaborative, and best played as a team sport.Content engineering is a critically vital piece to the CEM puzzle that no one knows they need until it’s missing at the end — when it’s too late.If content is electrical power, content engineering provides the wiring. When constructing a building, would you add beautiful lighting fixtures, powerful appliances, and power outlets but no electrical wiring to connect them? No transformers to move current from one state to another? Inconceivable, and yet the number one complaint we hear from agencies, integrators, and in-house marketing departments is that executive decision makers do not understand content engineering and are not willing to pay for it.Let there be light.Here are a few of the reasons that executives must embrace investments in content engineering:Without content engineering, we are asking software engineers to spend time on configuration and strategy rather than developing software. This makes reduces efficiency, and lengthens development cycles while reducing quality in CEM projects.CEM software is expensive. Implementing it poorly is even more expensive. Leaving valuable marketing functionality underutilized carries opportunity costs. By investing in content engineering, the return on investment (ROI) for CEM accelerates, while effectiveness improves.Even If utilization of all potential CEM strategies is a far-off dream compared to the current level of maturity in the marketing department, having a well-engineered content platform in place ensures CEM is possible. Without that strong platform, CEM will always be a far-off dream.4. 5. 6. 7. You can introduce the concepts and start collecting perspectives from marketing, IT, C-suite executives, and partners, all of which can feed into a feasibility review.Consider:· How can you streamline your CEM projects with a content engineering function?· What can you do to introduce and highlight the value of the content engineer in your organization?· Who among your existing team would be appropriate to cross train as a content engineer?· What would need to change in your current process to include content engineering?· What problems will content engineering avoid in projects? And what benefits will it bring to your environment, and how can you communicate those advantages?CEM desperately needs content engineering. Marketers can learn a lot from Tech Comms. Technical communicators are well-positioned to take up the content engineering charge inside their organizations. Seek to highlight the valuable role of the content engineer and lead the discussion on content engineering in your organization. Together, we will make the content engineering role and process a mainstream norm.Content engineering should have a place in your organization. It just takes some simple actionable steps, a bit of advocacy, training, and some trial and error.The long-term rewards to building a content engineering competence in your organization will far outweigh the costs.The best time to start is now. Start by building a content engineering practice internally at your organization. Content engineering isn’t easy, but it can become simple — once you get started.Entrepreneur, Simple [A] founder, content engineering, content management (CMS) and experience management (CEM), analytics, distributed teams, speaker, author.

What does User Experience mean to you? To a designer, it means “how my product looks and feels to the user”. To a product developer, it means “how quick and fast my product is when the user is using it”. To support personnel, it means “how can I solve the issue the user is having”. To a product manager, it is a method of gauging how successful the product is. To a marketer, it means how easy their job is going to be today. To QA engineers, it is the whole reason they exist…The field essentially stems from ISO 9241–210 — “The ISO goes on to say that User Experience includes all the users’ emotions, beliefs, preferences, perceptions, physical and psychological responses, behaviours and accomplishments that occur before, during and after use.Systems teams DevOps is still in its infancy, it didn’t exist when I got my first job as a support technician when I was 18. It popped up, almost overnight, as a way of bringing together development teams and systems (or Operations) teams into one coherent unit with one purpose — The concept of DevOps is well documented and I will not go into the core concept in depth. But I fear that, without recognition by industry professionals, the field of User Experience will fly past DevOps, who will remain focussed towards the systems from inside the company, without heading one step upwards and looking towards the systems from the view of the User. We will be losing one of the key things the Development side of the relationship brings to the equation — the user-centric focus on the finished product, and how it “feels” to use the product.The field of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) is something that has held my interest for some time. The fact of the matter is that mostly everything we build is intended to be used by humans — a species that has, in common with every single species on the planet, A User with the end goal of logging in to the product will become annoyed if they are unable to find the login screen. This is The same user encounters a better-designed product that allows them to login more easily — however when they try to login they are greeted with the message And that’s where Systems teams come in…I’m passionate about ensuring that a user has a good User Experience with any product that I am involved with. As a backend developer and systems administrator, sometimes that objective can feel somewhat out of reach — I don’t provide the user interface, I don’t provide the primary method that a User interacts with the product, so what is my role in providing a good User Experience?It’s probably not what you are thinking, either. Sure, I need to ensure my API is responsive and deals with requests in a timely and efficient manner. I need to ensure my API is available within the limits of the SLA. I need to ensure that I publish notifications of downtime ahead of time, I need to ensure I take backups, etc. These are all in my job description. Yawn.Let’s take stock for a second and step back to the fundamentals. My product is That leads to the conclusion that I am actually serving the Developers — and while that is strictly true, my end goal should be to ensure that the customer is the one having the best User Experience possible.That comes down to a few fundamentals which should be in the minds of anyone involved in the design and implementation of an API.Following the principles of But what if a standard doesn’t quite fit your product? Spend some time and Our users (This has multiple benefits across a wide range of areas. To name but a few:This change also has a major knock on effect on the User Experience of the Customer too — less requests means faster load times, which means less data usage for them, which means less money spent on data transfer, which leaves more money for them to spend on your product!Obviously this Easier said than done? I’d be tempted to disagree. Systems teams, as developers ourselves, often don’t take the necessary time to look back on what we have achieved and where we want to go next. Often this is because of workload, but when we do reflect, do we often have developers from other teams in that room with us creating the new specification? Why not? Is it so outlandish that we should entertain the notion of involving the primary consumer in the design process of the product that they will be using to create their product? We might actually get an implementation that we all agree on?That’s positively Developer and Systems Admin (

If you haven’t heard, there is now a Before starting the group, I did what any User Experience person would do, I spoke to potential users. I started with the question, “if there was a Design (digital — UX, Visual, UI) Debate Club, what topics should be debated?” One answer I received can be summarized as “mostly nothing.” The reasons given were that User Experience design is based on psychology which is science and thus not debatable, some aspects of design are subjective and debating those areas would be useless. The one area this person did allow would be open for debate is process. This did not bode well, but I moved on to asking others what they thought of the idea and the advice I got was basically to start a group and see if anyone joined. So I did, and people joined.During the group’s first Meetup, we examined the question “Is there anything debatable in UX?” — along with a host of other topics covered in a spirited and lively discussion. Besides an unanimous vote that yes, indeed there are topics within UX up for debate, a few themes became clear, included were:The topic of why start this group and how the idea came about also came up in the Meetup. There are four main reasons for starting the group:The enemy of any movement or profession is dogma. We need to continually examine and reexamine the cornerstones and pillars of our profession to be sure they still hold water. We need to continually look for new ways and measure their worth against trusted established methods.Usually, I love what people have to say on stage. Sometimes, I don’t agree, but respect the presenter’s opinion. Occasionally, I’m left wondering what the hell. I heard one speaker spread FUD (fear, uncertainty and doubt) and another spout of something that was factually incorrect and easily researched. When this happens at a conference or Meetups, it is usually not appropriate to challenge a presenter’s thesis without looking like…well…a jerk.Look, I understand that speakers and presenters are human, and all humans can make mistakes. But we are a profession that prides itself on being research and data driven with roots in science, so we should be able to handle a little fact checking and resist cherry picking research to some degree.A debate, particularly one based on the Oxford format, is a great way to do all of the above, allowing us to collectively look at problems, questions, or theories from both sides. It allows a way to challenge ideas (not people) in an open forum while having fun and shed a light where and when we need it.Any profession runs the risk of becoming too insular. UX borrows from many fields, and it would be great to invite people from those fields to debate how we are doing things. For example, how do Customer Discover and user research mesh? Or, how good are our data collection skills in usability testing when compared to data collected by an applied behavior analyst — both are measuring human responses.A no holds bar battle royal, where two UXers enter and one leaves…actually, it’s not like that at all. It’s a night of UX shop talk with some passionate, but moderated discussions on the topics that we care about. While these are still a work in progress, here are the rules:1. Talk about UX Debate Club. Share your ideas and feedback. Most importantly, tell others.2. Have fun, but keep it civil — we challenge ideas, not people.3. An Oxford Style debate format is used, which looks something like this:Just to give you some idea of what’s coming up next, a few of the topics in the works are:Be sure to signup for the The UX Debate Club is off to a great start with a lot more to come. Providing the UX community an open forum for examining ideas and practices.Digital Product Design  Strategy. Award-winning designer  product leader, delivering user-centered solutions  products. Founder of 

Design industry is seeing a major shift not only in terms of the design methodologies but also in terms of how the clients are engaging with varied touch-points of a product lifecycle, what they expect from a design agency, and what ultimately give their users Here I’m trying to put across the thoughts, discussions and readings that happened over a period of time to identify what are the essentials to design a good User Experience.Yes, there are rules written and there are best practices followed, but essentially I believe in the three pointers mentioned below which will help you enhance that Experience for the users and keep your client’s satisfied.It is very important to connect with users emotionally and make them feel comfortable wherever they are. This helps trigger intimacy and receptiveness, making them tolerant to minor difficulties that might crop up.We all agree that the foundation of a good design is all about understanding the following key points:Defining a user persona addresses the last two factors. However, it’s equally important to define their cultural values along with their personality, goals, desires, limitations and behaviour. This will help instinctively identify what can work, and leave a good first impression, or connect with their mental model instantly.How we recognize, address and engage our users emotionally makes it captivating for them. This in turn will result in a pleasant engagement, eventually giving the users a memorable experience.The Wiki definition states that, ‘a motive is what prompts a person to act in a certain way or at least develop an inclination for specific behavior.’What will a rat do, if it finds itself in a situation where it has to choose between the following options? a) A small pile of food on one end and b) A big pile of food on the other end, but with an obstacle on its way.According to a study that behavioral neuroscientist John Salamone conducted, rats with lowered levels of dopamine (a hormone and neurotransmitter that triggers motivation and mindset, behavior and cognition, attention and retention in our brain) almost always took the easy way out, choosing the small pile instead of jumping the fence for the greater reward.As Salamone explains, “low levels of dopamine make people and other animals less likely to work for things, so it has more to do with motivation and cost/benefit analyses than pleasure itself.”So to summarize the above experiment, focus on a design that can increase the dopamine level of your end user! Work on the motivational factors that brought them in. Always address that with your design.If required, place fences (challenges) on their way just to give them a sense of accomplishment. Because it’s not always about the pleasure that we (UX designers) try to bring in our users’ journey, it is also the challenges and the associated rewards that motivate everyone.Behavior model highlights three core motivators — Sensation, anticipation and social cohesion. Each of these motivators has two sides: pleasure/pain, hope/fear, and acceptance/rejection.Let your design motivate the user with pleasurable sensations (delightful interfaces), with anticipation of something good to happen (achievable challenges), while helping them gain social acceptance (rewards for participating).It’s the little things that count, hundreds of ‘em — Cliff ShawMicro-interactions engage us on a daily basis, in several subtle ways that we don’t even realise. Something as simple as automatic water dispensers, using the scrollbar on your phone, or the tinkle that indicates that you have unlocked your phone can be a micro-interaction. These interactions are so common and integrated in our routine that we tend to overlook their utility.It is important to make mundane activities interesting to the user to ensure that they stick to the product for a long time.Humans are fidgety creatures often prone to repeating little actions. What if we can provide unexpected, pleasant results with this innate human need to fiddle with things! We can use intelligent interfaces, micro copy, tactile transitions and interactions or even sound, used at the right moment with the right intensity.While it is hard to prove the ROI on a small moment of delight in a design that requires a little extra time and attention, there are two benefits of adding a little joy to the overall experience:a) excitement about the product  brand, leading to increased engagement, andb) creating a memorable experience that people will share with others, tentatively creating more potential users.It’s always a good idea to identify a signature moment with a micro-interaction in your product, which in turn could act as a brand ambassador by itself.The ‘You’ve got mail!’ micro-interaction will live on long after AOL has been forgotten!**************************Well, hope you had a good read and would continue your journey to the Best User Experience keeping in mind the pointers mentioned above. Let me know your thoughts and I will be happy to interact with you!Happy designing 2015!**************************Credits:Co-founder  Design Director at INKONIQ

The successful track record of two person partnerships is well documented. From music, to film, to technology, to comedy there’s never been a shortage of duos that have elevated their collective output by working closely together. Until the last couple of years though, I hadn’t experienced the benefits of it myself.To be clear, I’m not just talking about collaboration in general, which is generally a critical component to success, but specifically working with one other person who’s as focused and invested as you are in working towards a common goal.It’s like a marriage in many ways — you need trust, empathy, humor and respect to make it great. And if the combination is right, it can yield some extremely rewarding results.My path to finding successful collaborations has taken me through several phases of working alone and working with larger groups. Those experiences have helped me understand what works, what doesn’t, and what a good partnership looks like for me.The following are eight experiences and learnings I’ve had that helped me understand the value of this type of relationship.For a large chunk of my early career I worked in a fairly isolating role as a web developer. I worked on teams at various companies, but even in those group environments my job lent itself to long hours of working alone.Eventually I went freelance and expanded more heavily into design and user experience but still did a majority of the work by myself. While I did develop one particularly strong relationship with another guy who owned a small web design firm in the Los Angeles area, we never actually met face-to-face. It became an ongoing joke for us. But whether through laziness or fear of messing up what we thought worked well, we kept things separate.Keeping those connections at arms length kept my business simple, but it also eliminated a chance to build a relationship that could have grown my overall set of skills and created new opportunities.I created my first tech startup solo. It was a calorie counting service that let people track their food intake via text message. Because it was all based around text messages, I often referenced Twitter (this was 2007, about a year after Twitter was founded) to friends and family as I pitched it to them. I quickly realized nobody knew what the hell I was talking about.Despite that, I forged ahead and built a working prototype. I even managed to get a small number of users to sign up for subscriptions, but not quite enough to keep it alive long term.In my head, the concept was easy to use and provided great value. I was a bit blinded by my excitement to take advantage of this new use of technology and could picture thousands of eager users jumping on board. In reality, the market timing and concept probably weren’t quite there. A proper business partner may have spotted some of those issues early on, ultimately helping my pitch and my product.Because my work was so technically minded, I always sought to balance that with creative outlets. Over the years I wrote several screenplays and TV scripts (strictly comedy), an album of songs, and tinkered consistently with drawing, painting and photography. And while I always loved to share this work with people I rarely collaborated with anyone on it. Instead, I opted to toil away for long hours alone, creating, editing and reworking before it ever saw the light of day.With my writing I would get enough solid feedback from family and friends to catch major issues and oversights. I also got good feedback via an assortment of competitions. In one contest for television writing, I was selected as a finalist and received some incredibly helpful feedback from industry folks. But that all came after the fact, post-submission. Outside of my wife, who saw the blood and sweat that went into my work and is much too sweet to cripple me with harsh criticism (usually), there wasn’t one consistent person to give in depth reviews throughout the process.Having that consistent, objective voice to help critique your work not only gives you insight to make your work better, but also gets you in the habit of explaining and defending your decisions. Sometimes merely talking through your thought process with someone is enough to open your eyes to improvements. In my case, it could have meant the difference between being a finalist and being selected as the winner.I had three key experiences that helped educate me more deeply on the impact of group collaboration.The first was an animated series I created after being inspired by an intersection of two sitcoms; BBC’s The Mighty Boosh and HBO’s The Life and Times of Tim. The former inspired me to write a script based on two semi-directionless best friends and the latter inspired me to animate the concept myself.While this project started as a solo effort, I soon found myself recruiting my actor (and non-actor) friends to do voiceover. Later on I hooked up with two amazingly talented artists — one an animator and one a working director for several animated shows on FOX.What I discovered was that while I loved doing the writing for my series, hearing my friends’ interpretations of the words brought a whole new level of enjoyment with it. And then seeing it come to life through the animator’s creative lens with input from the director took the entire project to another level.This experience flipped a switch for me. I finally saw the magic you could get through collaboration and I wanted to seek out more opportunities to explore it. I ended up creating 13 episodes in total (along with a music video) before deciding to move on to some new projects with new challenges.The second experience was my next tech startup endeavor. This time, I was invited into a small team of four (and eventually five) with the fairly ambitious goal of providing online marketing and payment services for individual health and fitness providers. My role was the Head of Product Development which meant handling all the user experience (i.e. understanding our customers and translating their needs into a functioning service) and the design.This taught me a lot about how to deliver work that I believed in and also satisfied the other members of the team and their vision. My teammates were just as invested and passionate as I was, but it didn’t mean we always saw eye to eye on every decision. We pushed and pulled on things, always trying to make the product better. Sometimes we’d go in circles and get frustrated. Other times, the collective would all be harnessed in the same direction and it felt like you were a part of something that could be big.I learned an incredible amount about product design, business and project management through that. But one of the overarching take-aways from that experience was that when lots of decisions needed to be made, especially at those early stages, it would have been better to have fewer cooks in the kitchen.The third experience that helped inform my perception of group collaboration came from my work at a digital ad agency. I spent four years running projects, teams and ultimately a department during my time there. That experience exposed me to yet another level of dynamics that come with coordinating the output of a large group of folks across many disciplines.Working in this environment gave me some of the most fun working moments of my career. Some of the brainstorm sessions were as close to being in a writers’ room as I’ve ever come — surprising and challenging one another, making each other laugh to tears. That type of environment done right can bring out the best in a group.On the flip side, if the dynamics aren’t in balance, the participants won’t feel enough trust to truly open up about their ideas. As a result, the creative potential of the group can be wasted — an experience that’s more frustrating than fun.In an agency environment there’s generally a wide variety of disciplines characterized by an equally wide range of personality types. Some of those personalities are much less comfortable in group situations like brainstorms. And if those leading the meeting aren’t actively supporting the rest of the group, you can end up with a couple outspoken members dominating the room, and lots of kernels of potentially good ideas getting swept aside.My first real taste of working in a two-person partnership came via a friend who I’d known and worked with for several years. We were both interested in comedy and writing, so as a side project we decided to develop a pilot together.We worked on it in our off time for about a year and got a solid first draft together. But just as we were about to dive into the next round of revisions, we paused because we’d found another project that really interested us — a mobile app concept. I would once again take the lead on product development (UX, design) and he would handle business and marketing.We’d found through the writing project that we’d developed a level of trust that went beyond our existing friendship. We shared ideas freely and even more importantly learned to edit one another in a constructive way. There were still moments where we’d challenge one another, but that’s exactly what a healthy, productive relationship requires — both parties bring value to the table and together you create the best collective version of those visions.The final example is the user experience consultancy I’ve co-founded with my other business partner. We knew each other through the agency where we co-led the production team. During our time there we spent countless hours poring over every detail of how we wanted to shape the department from establishing a vision, to mentoring the individuals of the team, to defining processes to help the team produce great work. It didn’t take long to recognize how much we had in common and how well we got along.When we both independently decided it was time to move on from the agency, we naturally thought about joining forces. We didn’t immediately jump to the conclusion that we would keep it to two — we talked with a couple close friends about creating something larger — but ultimately, the particular vision and timing of what we sketched out spoke specifically to the two of us.We’ve since created something we’re incredibly proud of: Collaboration is a tricky thing. For it to work well you need trust, empathy, humor and respect with the other person. The more people that are involved, the harder it can be to achieve alignment on all of those fronts — not only in terms of your relationship with each of them, but also their relationships with one another.Reducing the number of people involved doesn’t just reduce the number of variables but it allows you to really focus in on the deeper aspects of your relationship with the other person. How do each of your strengths and weaknesses overlap and when do they complement one another? The more you can dig into those elements with someone the more you’ll benefit from working together.If you’re a solo artist, find someone you trust and build a relationship so that you can get feedback early and often. Maybe offer up an exchange of critique/therapy sessions so that you can maintain a proper balance of feedback-power with each other.If you’re part of a bigger group or company, seek out someone with whom you can build an informal partnership. It could be someone from another department so that you can exchange feedback influenced by different aspects of the business.If you run a company or department, try using two-person meetings at times. Create mini-brainstorms or working sessions where a couple people can hash through the bulk of the challenges and then share with the larger group for feedback. It can speed up the process, reduce meeting waste and build stronger individual relationships overall.And if you’re ready to start something totally new, think about whether you could do it with just one other person. You can always grow in size once a strong foundation has been established. And for building that foundation, a well-matched pair is much stronger than going it alone.Thinker, designer, and builder of digital stuff. Inspired by my amazing wife and son. Partner and Co-Founder at Map  Fire (

You may have recently seen an abundance of puking rainbows and bug eyes on Snapchat. You can thank Looksery for that.Looksery launched last year as an entertainment app based on face recognition technology and special effects.Founded in 2013, Looksery went on to raise money for its They were I (JC) took some time to speak with lead designer Lidiya Bogdanovich (LB) about their design process and how user experience testing transformed their app from good to GREAT.LB: Looksery was always meant to be an entertaining app that demonstrates the technology of face detection but in a fun way, like a video-messenger for you and your friends.LB: Since the very beginning of Looksery I was the only designer. On later stages (post launch) our design team grew up to three people.We were a small team and we were doing everything possible for our product to blossom, so we didn’t have very strict responsibility borders of or clearly defined roles.Startup members usually need to be able to perform multiple tasks and we were lucky to have the “crème de la crème” of design society.LB: At first we on speculation and past experience, relying on our professional knowledge and more than ten years of design experience.We wanted our app to appear as innovative as possible so we used trendy UI features. It looked awesome.It was design made by designers for designers and that is not what we wanted.The first user testing showed that people didn’t get how to use it. At the end of the day we wanted all users to enjoy our technology without even thinking about UI.LB: We tried a lot of approaches at first. But step by step we figured out what our mistakes were, and proceeded with our “polished” method.First we defined our audience. If we’re an entertainment app, who do we entertain?We decided that the main audience would be teenagers, students and young people who are active in social media.Every week we were communicating with our audience in both private testing (when we are talking about UI) and general testing (we were gathering people all together and showing them our special effects, to define which ones they’d use)While one on one testing we were trying to create a friendly relaxed atmosphere, giving our user simple tasks and asking them to comment everything they do while drinking coffee and eating cookies.That way you really see what your user is about, not when they feel like they are a lab mice.We did at least small testing every other week, that gave us flexibility to react, in case we are doing something wrong.We ended up changing the UI completely after we started testing. At first we wanted to be like all those apps with awesome design, which screenshots people post like that much on design web sites. But it appeared that those apps come and go, and really awesome ones, that people like and use on an every-day basis, those ALWAYS have a very simple, easy to use design.And this is what we wanted to be. Not a screenshot on a UI design gallery, but an app that you open every day to chat with your friends.LB: The main problem was that people just wouldn’t hold camera the right way, so the face wouldn’t detect and the technology would reveal itself — users needed strong lighting to capture their face sufficiently.We needed to simplify the experience — instruct the user on what to do without being annoying or making the app look complicated (because no one wants to play with a complicated app).We tried tons of concepts and none of them worked.But after enough testing we figured out that the best results were using walkthrough screens. So we decided to work in that direction.We hired a model and a photographer and created new screens. The results were much better this time, but there were still room for improvement.What did we do then? We reduced the length of the titles, and added a “hint” arrow, showing what to pay attention to.We still were getting some funny results but it was working much better.LB: Another problem was with a placeholder-picture that illustrated the photo-filters — the instagram-looking ones that are currently present in every camera.After looking through lots and lots of pictures we decided to go with a parrot one because it had the best color scheme and the most optimal contrast and detalization.That brought up other issues. We started getting “why I am I pressing it I’m not getting a parrot-look” complains but that is part of the learning process!LB: A few things…In our case, people didn’t want to take selfies or test the sharing option on our devices, because they were afraid that those pictures can go public or used in the wrong way.Our optimal amount of users is 5–7 people and certainly no more than 10. If you have major problems in your app, you’ll realize it after 4th or 5th person.Why are people are not sharing? Is the sharing button hidden? The button doesn’t look like a sharing button? Or people just don’t want to do it on your device while you are watching?As of a few weeks ago we are now part of a Snapchat team. Lot’s of celebrities are now using the app, such as Miley Cyrus (My personal goal is to share our design experience, showcasing our mistakes and attempts to make it better, to help others in their design process.People may or may not do user testing just rely on their own design experience, but I hope my experience will help someone in creating new awesome projects.Creative and creator. Digital Designer and UX Enthusiast.

In the past few years, design has been facing the issue of how to convey a good User Experience (UX) across the range of devices we use everyday.An efficient solution to design good websites could be breaking UIs down to their This can be crucial from an adaptability perspective and from the point of view of user experience, which should be cultivated at every level.These fundamental components are called ‘In the words of Brad Frost, who first defined Atomic Design:What does atomic design consist of exactly? It’s simply about designing a web’s fundamental components first. If we break any design into smaller parts, we will always get the same results:- - - - - - - Leaving the layout aside, atomic design focuses on the styling of these essential components.The bigger, reusable, combinations of atoms are the From groups of molecules joined together, we get Typefaces, white space, colors and textures, taken independently from the rest, help create the “feel” of the website and its “visual identity”. They don’t depend on layout to convey emotion or empathy, as they will be “felt” on every different device regardless. As After the building blocks, theAll the building blocks described above come together to create Finally, a With Justinmind, you can implement your own design process in the wireframe editor. In fact, Justinmind gives users the possibility to use Atomic Design principles to create web and mobile wireframes.When you open the editor, you will see that many of the pre-installed Let’s take, for instance, theThe best platform to define web and mobile apps with rich interactive wireframes 

At any stage, product managers have the difficult job of deciding which features will best support their current and future users. The risks involved in a product buildout are even more imminent for startups, who often have limited time and resources at hand to distinguish and prove their product’s value in the marketplace.Your first few product releases set the stage for your brand and offering and provide an important foundation for the growth and future build out of your product. Paring down features of your MVP will let you to focus time and money on your product’s core value proposition. Remember, if you can execute on one highly relevant function or feature and offer a leading user experience that’s better than the existing ones out there, you’ll sustain a competitive advantage. Your primary goal at this stage is to secure your core user base and position your product for growth and success for version 2.0 and beyond.At Determining your product’s core features and experience can be more challenging than it sounds; it’s also super important to your business model, so it’s important to answer these questions early on. To clearly identify features that support core functionality, we recommend that you build a master wish list of all the features you want your product to offer. From there, start to cross off the ones that aren’t a necessity, and work your way down to identify the fundamental, functional pieces that you’ll need to offer in your MVP.It’s crucial to clearly identify who are your primary users; you may even want to develop “personas” to better understand their needs and wants. From there, you can pinpoint which features to prioritize for this primary user base. Ask yourself, “who will be my product evangelists and how can I better serve them?” Your primary users will give your product its legs, so it’s essential to serve their needs from the get-go. This should be a fundamental goal of any MVP.Refer back to this question to help you pare down your master wishlist of features and functionalities. This is also useful to ask yourself again later on, after you receive user feedback, and need to prioritize demands to decide what is most important to incorporate next into your product experience.If you haven’t accrued a significant user-base for your product, some of the features that are included in your master wishlist just won’t be relevant or useful to users yet.Write these features into your product roadmap for later in your timeline, perhaps when you hit a target number of users.Features that might fall into this category often include: elaborate user profiles, search functions, peer-to-peer communication mechanisms, and other sharing and social features.The “how” of this question should get you thinking about your user experience. What elements of your design, architecture, and on-boarding process will support and guide users to execute on key value functions? Making these experiences are excellent will help hook and maintain users.You don’t want to cut corners if it means investing in something that will contribute to the sustainable and continued growth of your product. Doing it the right way the first time around will ultimately save you money and time, even if it means investing more resources now.It’s important to understand the context in which your product will be used. In what setting will users will most frequently access your product? Is it at work mid-project, at home when they’re browsing content, or in the field when they’re gathering data? Also, consider what devices your target audience will use to access your product based on this context. If your product aims to get users to browse or consume content, you’ll want to build your platform so it delivers an optimal experience on a tablet, since research shows this medium supports this type of user behavior. You want to make sure that any feature you build out in your MVP or early-stage product will support the primary use case of your core audience.Perhaps the best investment you can make early-on in your product development is to implement feedback channels so you can continuously receive input from users on an going basis. Not only will you gain useful information by investing in these features but it will also support your users’ experience and let them know their voice is being heard. This can go a long way towards their patience and loyalty. Putting feedback loops in place will make your users more forgiving when usability problems arise. If the features you’ve built out so far as strong but you’re missing a few that your users are looking for, letting them know that it’s in the pipeline just might keep them from dropping off.Good luck! If you find that you could use some help building your product roadmap, prioritizing features, or delivering an excellent product user experience, The pulse of the Boston Tech Scene!

Robots  digital actors as the new frontier for experience designIs a new category of digital products emerging, defined by their ability to create physical change in the world, as opposed to the purely virtual outcomes we currently associate with digital experiences?There are many products which fit this description, from ‘helper robots’ descended from science fiction fantasies to seemingly mundane home appliance controllers. However, is this specific characteristic of having a physical impact on their environment a sufficiently unifying factor that it should define a new approach to their user experience?Generational shifts in technology — the type significant enough to require new design approaches — are infrequent. They are often proclaimed by marketers, but rarely happen. They are also easier to identify with hindsight than to predict in advance. Looking back through the 20 years I’ve been involved in digital industry, there have been a couple worthy of consideration:The significance of these changes is obvious with hindset, but what can we extract from this historical knowledge to help us evaluate an emerging landscape we might call ‘digital actors’ — those products capable of impacting their physical environment? I’d include within this everything from driverless cars and performative architecture to industrial robots and personal drones.There are some signals we can look for, which we know represented big changes in previous generational shifts:The unease is perhaps the simplest to address. There is an overwhelmingly body of evidence emerging in mainstream media, academic research and early user stories that the moment a digital experience is capable of moving itself, altering the physical environment or otherwise creating a result outside of its own space, users start to react differently. That ability for a product to be an actor in both the physical and virtual world raises questions of trust, expectation and consequences which simply aren’t present when a product is limited to the virtual sphere.Self-driving cars provide a useful example of this illogical unease. There is quite convincing evidence that self-driving cars are less likely to crash than those driven by humans. Logically, it is easy to see why: computers react faster and do not suffer from the random distractions which afflict humans. They can also be supported my multiple levels of failsafe redundancy — equivalent to a human driving a car alongside multiple co-pilots capable of intervening if they failed to notice something.Yet, still, humans are almost unanimous in their sense of disquiet about self-driving cars, born of unfamiliarity with the technology married to a very real image of what could happen if it did go wrong. Every human knows what it means to be in a car accident, almost none know how self-driving systems are designed to make those accidents less likely.Driving is at the far end of the spectrum of unease, shared with other scenarios where handing control to technology is perceived to have sudden and serious consequences for safety. Medical is another area: no matter how much evidence is presented that a robot surgeon is more accurate and reliable, who can blame someone who feels more comfortable knowing the grey-haired, friendly doctor will be taking care of their operation?What of the second test, the ability to change lifestyles? The majority of humans once spent the majority of their time gathering enough food to survive. Technology has gradually abstracted individual humans from the basic necessities of life. It has begun to chip away at things like distance, weather and the weaknesses of human bodies as limitations on how we can shape the world and our roles within it.However, almost every one of those technologies — especially those small and cheap enough to be present in our personal lives — remains in the virtual realm; they’re capable of assisting our interactions with the physical environment, but not yet carrying them out themselves. Crucially, they also come with a latency of supervision, meaning the new things they allow us to do or the speed at which we can do them is always offset by the new time we have to allocate to programming them.Today, most people can make a video call to anywhere in the world using the computer in their pocket, but they’re still physically taking out their own trash, adjusting their home thermostat and opening and closing their own doors.How would our lives change if the time we spend today on utilitarian tasks — things from which we derive no pleasure — was freed up by digital actors? We only have to look back to the impact of the agricultural and industrial revolutions to understand the sweeping changes to lifestyle which become possible when humans are given more leisure time — for better or worse!The question of whether we need different design approaches is the most opaque, and the one I hope to explore in detail at MEX.Consider an experience like a personal drone. Technology is emerging which could, in theory, allow each of us to carry, employ or host a drone companion capable of hovering beside us, equipped with cameras, environment sensors and the ability to fly off on errands. It makes me think about digital manifestations of the animal daemons in Philip Pullman’s Dark Materials trilogy, popularised as The Golden Compass films.Just writing a description of such a thing highlights the scale of the design challenge. The language alone is a minefield. How would you describe the human relationship with a digital actor like this — is the correct term ‘carry’ or ‘employ’ or ‘host’ or ‘control’ or some other word language is yet to provide?There are existing design principles which could provide a starting point: for instance, an obvious need for deep ethnography. Similarly, the tools which have emerged to support multi-touchpoint experience design are relevant here, as a digital actor like this would necessarily exist as part of an overall experience combining numerous devices, and gaps between those devices.However, I think there’s something else here, something deeper. Something changes when a digital actor becomes capable of crossing the line between the virtual world, where the consequences of its actions are by definition limited, and the physical world where it will be sub-consciously evaluated as much for the subleties of its body language, etiquette and relationship with its environment. It is elevated from the inanimate — the realm of tools under our direct control — to a form of being — the realm of entities of which we have behavioural expectations.When that line is crossed, the design challenge evolves from one primarily defined by the efficiency and aesthetics we strive for in the virtual sphere to something more complex. It will have elements of behaviour shaping, consequence evaluation and long-term planning which — by virtue of their new and massively expanded importance — probably require new tools, and certainly a reorganisation of the toolkit.I don’t yet know what that balance between new tools and re-purposing of existing techniques looks like. That’s what I hope will grow from discussions within the MEX community, online and at our events, but I’ll leave you with some half-formed thoughts which might serve as initial lines of enquiry:I run MEX, the initiative for mobile user experience: events, analysis and consultancy.

Writing about Usability and User Experience (UX) in web design is explaining the process of studying the habits and reactions of the users and how to convert those patterns in conversions and gaining a recurrent costumer. After all, how are you going to sell a product which cannot be sold by it self?A good example is what’s happening with the convenience stores. For example Wal-Mart realized the market was demanding them to go smaller and so they did, understanding what the buyers want and how. They created “Wal-Mart to go” mixing a smaller store with an e-Commerce so now they are expanding even more.Combine Usability and User Experience in a website is delivering the best package to the user and converting them in a regular costumer. There is a saying that the best piece of marketing is the package and the label, this is what is all about.The experience you feel when you go to a supermarket, convenience store, retail store and you enter and understand the layout and the personal attention you receive from the vendor it’s exactly the combination between Usability and UX.It’s being one step in front of the rest like the Cirque du Soleil did when they started, they believed in the idea to innovate the traditional circus presentation and put it in a new level giving the spectators a never before experience combining new types of acrobatics, illumination, music and now different themes so the audience wants to see all of them and wants more themes to open.Being able to watch a few years ago “La Nouba” the Cirque du Soleil in Orlando open my mind to new kind of ideas of thinking outside the box that anything can be done and since then I apply that thought everyday with the designs. I have always thought that website with a strong design based on the best practices of Usability and User Experience could become easily in the number one sale force for any company or person.It doesn’t matter if your goal is not sell in the internet because you don’t have products, is about the feeling you projects and give to your potential customers. The best practices talk about color psychology depending the line of service you are in, the calling actions (buttons) have to have certain color to increase the rate of clicks, navigation flows adapted or created specifically to your brand, lean design is so important and people often forget it, the typography has to be understandable and in a good size, to name only a few.What we all want is to have a unique presentation that says: “This is me and I’m the best!” and the rest is preparing yourself to manage more conversions that you even thought. Don’t be afraid of not belonging in the pack because you have a unique product with a unique presentation or even better a common product but with an outstanding presentation.SimonSharing my views on Usability and User Experience 

“..and we are just getting started”. Words from Tim Cook as he summarised the announcements on Apple TV. Well, it’s about time!Spring forward to this fall and I am sure we will be looking at an all new Apple TV. A completely redesigned UI, more powerful processors and for the first time, downloadable games!As Jobs said, every product category had a breakthrough in user experience that lead to it’s mass adoption. It was the mouse for the PC, multitouch for smartphones and this…..for game consoles? I hope not.It’s 2015 and we all know that the next big thing is....immersive VR. Nope.The living room is different. Living room has to be fun, social and local. An experience that transcends age and gender.The Wii and Xbox Kinect were bold efforts with limited success. As consumers we are still in search for that breakthrough product.Apple, I beg of you. Do your sorcery and fix this aberration. Hypnotise us to burn down those virtual farms and show us what our living rooms can be.For if you fail, end up as candy crushing toilet gamers, we will.Avid Learner

If you want to design a public park, lay the grass and watch where people walk. The natural paths people create will tell you where to put the side walks, ponds, and playgrounds. Beautiful design is utility.User experience (UX) design is not graphic design or art. Rather it is the science of understanding people — anthropology, cognitive psychology, socioeconomics, and ethnography — in order to discover and solve for pain points and design products and experiences that improve the wellbeing of users.For example, take A seemingly simple design change can have a massive impact, and UX unearths and implements those findings. Here’s one UX project I did.Our client is starting a company that wants to own the entire new home process — from building to selling and owning a new house. They store all the data about the new home — warranties on appliances, types of interior and exterior paints , etc. — in a mobile application so homeowners can fix broken things and do home improvement projects.My job is to design a section of the app to for home projects.These are the major things we found through the UX process.These are the five UX methodologies we executed to unearthed those discovers.There are the major design considerations we gave the client based on the methodologies and discoveries.The client wanted us to design the entire app after that. It was going to be a web app designed for iPad according to the client’s specifications.I first outlined the user flow on the white board, then talked with Brian about it — he was outside of the user experience part of the project so could give unbiased feedback.We then did the same process and sketched every screen on the white board and I took pictures for the wireframes.Then I used Balsamic to create the wireframes of the app explaining every detail, button and flow. We could show digitally with links how the app worked. By detailing every button and user flow, it took uncertainty out of the minds of developers — communication is key.The biggest pain point we found is that homeowners spend time and money — making multiple trips to the store — because they forget something. Designing for that pain would have been key — no other company in the home improvement space was doing this.Normally, we would start user testing, but after three iterations of mockups and after the client liked the wireframes, the project ended for me because I began working at Unreasonable Group, a cohort of companies and global accelerator program that helps entrepreneurs solve big problems, like iron deficiency.As seen with Lucky Iron Fish, UX practices can be a powerful tool — unearthing counterintuitive or hidden discoveries and designs. And from my work with social entrepreneurs via Unreasonable, this tool can be especially powerful when integrated towards missions that aim to solve big, meaningful problems.This is the first post documenting my learnings and observations as I endeavor on my adventures in UX, entrepreneurship, systems thinking, and big problems. I’m blessed with Experientialist, instigator, and student

Designers and engineers at For example, the You can get a taste of this user-driven approach by taking an online course that every new hire at Citrix has to go through as part of Ignite — an internal on-boarding program. Citrix Customer Experience team together with the Learning  Development team has run close to 30 in-person workshops with over 1,000 employees to-date, and now we have made it possible for you to take it online — self-guided and at your own pace. You can either facilitate this By the end of the 2-hour, rapid, high-immersion session, participants will have:This crash course is based on a virtual class from Senior Lead Designer 

There’s a reason we don’t have perpetual motion. It exists at every level of our physical world: Friction, in that sense, is You’ve felt it — you’re online trying to decide where to eat dinner, and you find what looks like the perfect spot. You click over to their website and… WHAM! You can’t figure out where to look for their address. It’s not in any of the usual spots on the page. No phone number either. The likelihood of you actually going there to eat becomes slim to none.If you’re that restaurant, you want to reduce friction on your website as much as possible. You want to make it clear where you’re located and that you take reservations. Maybe you even let visitors make that reservation through an embedded portal on your site. It’s like greasing a wheel. The gear turns more smoothly, and you’ve got a paying customer at a table.This isn’t about laziness. This is about eliminating steps that could be avoided. That’s why a lot of us like keyboard shortcuts. When we’re typing, our fingers are already on the keys, so it’s much easier to click ⌘ + c than to move away to the trackpad.Think about how you can give your customers the information they need in the least number of steps possible.Study after study has shown that multitasking is actually a lie. You’re not really working on two tasks at once — you’re mentally switching between the two, albeit rapidly, and therefore being less effective at them both. It was a revelation when the Kindle introduced an included dictionary, so when you’re reading and stumble over a word, you can immediately highlight and look it up.No need to get up, hunt down the ole Webster’s, remember the alphabet… nope, I got my answer right from my comfy chair and can get back to the plot at hand. What’s your equivalent to the Kindle’s dictionary?The menu is a one-pager rather than a book. If you don’t like anything on it, then that’s tough. But as long as you do, it’s less exhausting trying to order and you can get to fun part of eating more quickly. Extensive drop down navigation options are the Cheesecake Factory behemoth menu of the web. You don’t need them.You don’t need to care about the friction that keeps scientists from building a perpetual motion machine, but you Ask yourself, “Is my website as easy to use as it could be?” If not, we should talk.Curious, squiriferous, audacious.Thoughts from the Nine Labs team.

Years passed i used to work for a video studio as post-production assistant. I had a chance to interact with an archeologist called Dr.K.P.Poonacha who was helping some production house as a subject matter expert. During my short discussion i was asking about Hampi, one of the UNESCO identified World Heritage Site in South India and the place of Hindu temple architecture.I asked Dr. Poonacha what was the reason behind such huge temple complex which consist of market area,dance floor, am phi theaters, trading center,water pool etc apart from place of worship. He explained the social scenario of 15th - 16th Century,those days the only place where people used to meet was in temples and marriage parties. Temple visits were mandatory for Hindus. The kings / ministers wanted to leverage this custom and engage people in trading,entertaining, gathering to collect taxes (ROI) so they built such huge temple complex not just a place of worship, but for social gatherings. These places were also used for public announcements, as there were no means for communication. So to drag people to the site (not website) the temples had great carvings with beautiful designs. The carvings tell stories of an ancient war /art of love making etc which could be an education for others during that era. Few pillars make a unique sound where musicians love to hear, so the design was targeted for different audience.People use to buy and sell, Entertainers use to entertain people.So the complete B2B /B2C activities used to happen at social gatherings.Now, what we are trying to use Social Media for the same activity. I started thinking in terms of usability and compare the current webdesign strategy with old Hampi and i felt the same.There might be similar structures which were built using common sense, what we call today usabilityThanks for readingLaxman Shivashankar

AVP Sales  Marketing 

I’m planning on speaking at a few upcoming events and trying to discover something original to talk about (other than process, tools etc. that seem to engulf the conference circuit). I’d only really talk about something I’m passionate about, that being, UX design, digital marketing and cycling.I’ll save my thoughts on cycling for another time (or just check out cycling-heavy Through my research, I stumbled upon the Reminding ourselves what the two disciplines do (thanks Increasingly now, we’re calling apps “products”. Product designers now include people that design websites, mobile apps and the like. The From my point of view, UX and marketing are things that customers experience, but they are distinctly different. Over time, it may be that we’re not marketing to users (selling to users), we’re meeting their needs through an experience which includes digital marketing.Marketing products nowadays includes making videos about apps — like the one This example shows that they are still separate disciplines, but some companies seem to ignore marketing altogether. A great example of marketing and UX being one and the same can be found in the collaboration app Is UX and marketing one and the same? No. Do some products and apps sell just through the fact that they are awesome? Yes.I love both. I love good online experiences and I love creating (and consuming) good digital marketing that comes out of it.Are there any examples of companies that don’t market their product at all? How do people get to hear about them? Would love to hear examples in the comments, or Tweet me at Senior UX designer, videographer and bicycle rider.

Prescriptive personalization has a navigation structure and search facility, the main difference is that the user experience changes dynamically based on a number of factors. The best prescriptive personalization relies upon a multitude of technologies to help companies predict users’ likely behavior and then personalize interactions to hone their marketing offers. Let’s examine some of the ways that personalization can be implemented.Online-to-Offline (O2O) is a business strategy that draws potential customers from social-mobile channels to physical stores. O2O identifies customers in the mobile space, such as through location-based advertising and mapping services, and then uses a variety of tools and approaches to entice the customer to leave the mobile space, incorporating techniques used in digital marketing with those used in brick-and-mortar marketing.Very recently, I was in an Apple store where I was introduced to the Apple Store App, using which I could order online and then go and pick up my item from the nearest Apple Store. Many years ago, I had a chance to implement “Click and Pull” — This trillion dollar opportunity, that includes everything from localized online display ads to local product search — anything that will influence users for what they search and buy offline, is heralded as the next big thing in China, India and growing in North America and in the Europe.Digital marketing is a force of evolutionary progression. Startups and established companies alike are using the online world to grow at rates never before imagined. But for many, the online world also causes negative knock-on effects in the offline world. Fortunately, there is a lot happening to bridge the online and offline worlds, bringing fully integrated marketing based on customer preference and sales processes together so that both sides prosper. Existing recommender systems, a key component of the digitization of the O2O feature, are based on the idea that people often get the best recommendations from someone with similar tastes to themselves. Collaborative filtering, a machine learning technique for such recommender systems, matches people with similar interests on previously viewed items or on conversational systems that interact with the user in a simplified dialogue to perform a task. Here, an implicit model of a user’s preferences is inferred from items that he or she has rated — The system, in addition, has an inherent bias with several types of distortions: a) a tendency to rank content or product sets similarly (halo effect); b) avoids extreme responses (central tendency bias); c) a user often get conditioned to modify or improve an aspect of their behavior in response to their awareness of being observed (Hawthorne effect); or portray themselves/their organization in a more favorable light (social desirability bias).These factors game the system away from users and their preferences, generally with extension filters such as “Customer Also Viewed”, “Customer Also Purchased” and “Comments” that are very clearly, if not fake, copied and pasted from other sites or news articles — In contrast, personal agents extend intelligent agent-based systems with personalized assistance. A significant aspect of the personalization comes from the agent acquiring knowledge of the user and using it to direct its activity. This knowledge can include models of the user’s preferences over what to do and how to do it, preferred ways of working, and degrees of autonomy, as well as models of the user’s knowledge and skills, intentions, and so forth. Interface agents — At the other extreme of interactivity, personal assistants operate transparently to the user, intervening only when necessary. Systems are designed to augment memory skills for those with mild cognitive impairment. For instance, opportunity knocks, a system to provide cognitive assistance with transportation services to improve the efficiency, safety and independence of individuals with mild cognitive disabilities, takes the form of a smart mobile phone that helps plan your route with public transport. Two critical design goals have to be met (i) no explicit user conditioning and (ii) robustness in the real world. First, the agent must learn the user’s routine without requiring the user to explicitly provide information about his or her preferred choices. Second, it must provide proactive or in-advance assistance with planning, progression and possibilities by recognizing and recovering from user errors.The primary role of preferences in these agents concerns the user’s mode of learning and the nature of the help desired. The agents personalize contingent on whether the users are expert or novices at a task, whether their learning style is more inductive or deductive, their emotional state, and whether they like continuous context-sensitive hints or prefer more focused but attention demanding help after they have explored on their own. Often, these preferences are acquired — In effect, shoppers and content users move closer to “one-click” — The models for prescriptive personalization of O2O shopping concerns not only the base task — First, the degree and nature of the interaction must be tailored to the specific need and the context. Would shoppers use a navigation system that suggests the best route to a store, if they have to first answer a battery of questions to seed a preference model? Prescriptive personalization in digital marketing is of limited value if the application is difficult or tedious to use.Second, the acquisition of preferences is a central challenge in such interactive systems. Shopper preferences of sufficient breadth and fidelity must be acquired for the reasoning — Third, the interface design should account for feature preferences, users’ trade-offs and pay-offs. The design must respect requirements stemming from the use of preferences, for example, it must provide a mechanism to express preferences. Further, the design should exploit the learned models, delivering not only product or content options but also present all the benefits of customization in way to make a profound impact — Prescriptive user interfaces (PUI) move beyond the pervasive “one size fits all” paradigm of UX design. By learning and employing models of the user and his or her environment, personalized UXs customize the interface to the user’s tastes and the context of the interaction. PUI forms a sub-layer within the adaptive user interface, which collectively adapts UXs to a broad range of contexts, including characteristics of the user (for example, identity, current task, level of ability, emotional state, preferences), the device (for example, screen size, bandwidth, available input methods), and the environment (for example, noise level, comparisons, presence of other agents). For each application, a different subset of the full context is relevant to adapting the interface. PUIs focus on systems whose relevant context includes a user’s preferences and current task. This change from the existing online only systems could be quite daunting. A better way to change such a system, as once Robert Redford said, is to work through it as a bottom-up insider, quietly chipping away at standard operating procedures, creating small opportunities to do what you really want to do, until you achieve real success. Then you can break out your agenda in a larger way. But this method takes a long time, and in an industry is an even tougher nut to crack than in a single organizationSince all these elements are inter-related, user studies are necessary in the iterative design and evaluation of such interactive application. In the case of preference elicitation, for instance, the elicitation strategy that is best theoretically may fail to elicit the model if the UI renders it unintelligible to the user.Many users change preferences because there is rarely an outcome that satisfies all of their initial preferences. Two frequently encountered cases often require preference revision: (1) when a user cannot find an outcome that satisfies all of his or her stated preferences and must choose a partially satisficing one, or (2) when a user has too many possibilities and must further narrow down the space of products or contents. Even though both activities can be treated as the process of query refinement, the real challenge is to help users specify the correct query in order to find the target item. Here, one would present a unified framework of treating both cases as a trade-off process because finding an acceptable solution requires choosing an outcome that is desirable in some respects but perhaps not so attractive in others.References:Decision Scientist. Founder Partner @ StatGraf

SYDNEY, Saturday: Just months after the launch of a new ‘Opal’ smart card ticket system for the state’s public transport, a forgetful Sydney man has racked up $4.3 billion of fares on his card, single-handledly covering the entire cost of running the state’s busses, trains, ferries and trams.The new system requires travellers to ‘Tap On’ with the smart card when they get on a bus or tram, and then ‘Tap Off’ at the end of the journey. If users forget to ‘Tap Off’, then the maximum fare for that route is charged.The man’s complete and continuing failure to remember to ever ‘Tap Off’, has led to the blowout in charges against his card, which now runs to several hundred million dollars per week. Previously, his weekly transport bill came to $23.“It is a bit more expensive than before,” he said, “but I suppose I’ve only got myself to blame. No matter what I do, I always forget at the last minute to ‘Tap Off’”“I’ve tried everything to make me remember. I tried holding the card in my sweaty hand for the whole journey. I’ve tried balancing it on my head so that it’s the only thing I can think about. I’ve even tried pinning it to my eyeball with a thumbtack, but no matter what, I always forget.“It’s as if I’d prefer to concentrate on getting off the bus safely, rather than accommodating to the needs of a soul-less computerized ticketing system whose user experience is fundamentally at odds with the way humans behave on public transport.”A spokesperson denied that the Opal card system was a sophisticated plot to strip public transport users of billions of dollars. “There’s nothing sophisticated about it,” the spokesperson said, speaking from a Jacuzzi full of $100 notes.“Sure, there may be a few teething problems. The average commuter may forget to ‘Tap Off’ the first thirteen or fourteen thousand times, but once they’ve lost their worldly possessions, their car and their home to the maximum route fares, we have found that ‘Tapping Off’ becomes a front-of-mind issue for them, and it no longer is the biggest problem in their life.”Despite the extra charges, the forgetful man says the Opal card is a mixed blessing. “Sure, it’s costing me hundreds of millions of dollars more per week, but it’s got automatic direct debit from my credit card, so it’s not all bad.”The Roast, The Chaser

As a core member of the software and analytics team, you’ll help define and create new product features and experiences for our rapidly growing customer base and workforce. Our team is responsible for Off Grid’s core platform, Surge, the “operating system for the business.” Surge provides much of the magic behind the three key areas of the operation:Off Grid is creating opportunities for thousands of local workers to participate in a high tech startup, and Surge enables us to do this with extreme efficiency, scale, and reliability.As ourWe need you to help us transform our user experience, including:Send us info about yourself to Off.Grid:Electric - The worlds first distributed clean energy utility, currently in TanzaniaThe path to a million solar energy-equipped homes

Here’s a text message I received last Saturday:Although I had a generally positive experience in the ATT store, I didn’t like this survey message.— “we’ll text you”. What if I don’t want them to text me? Can I opt out? Don’t take the feeling of control away from the user. Also, who will I be receiving this text message from? Is it ATT corporate, is it my local store in Seattle, is it Aldo?— “shortly”. This means ten minutes. It took them nearly three hours. I had already forgotten about the original text. My first instinct upon receiving the new text was “spam message”.— “for some feedback”. how much feedback, how many questions are you going to ask? If I respond to the first one, will you send me more? Why not provide bounds around the communication, like “for three short questions”.— “(SURVEY TEXTS ARE FREE)”. No need to yell. As my telecom, they should be able to see that I’m on an unlimited text message plan. Something like this makes the entire message feel less personalized, and therefore less likely for me to respond.— “for your mobile servicing”. Was I getting my car repaired?— “JONATHAN”. You don’t have to shout my name.Given these problems, how would I redesign this message?Three hours later, I receive a text from ATT with this question:This question uses a “net promoter score” framework, a common marketing strategy for identifying three groups of customers. The first group is those who give a response (score) of 7 or 8. These individuals are usually ignored. The second group is those who give scores of 1 through 6. These are the “detractors”. A marketing specialist may be assigned to provide extra services and care to these customers. The final group gives scores of 9 or 10. These are the “promoters”. These individuals are exceptionally loyal and likely to “promote” the brand to friends.I first learned about the net promoter score a few weeks ago. I was struggling with the question of how to assess “utility” instead of “usability”. When interviewing users, how do you measure the value of a product to them, above and beyond discovering usability problems? I approached a senior UX researcher following a UX event in Seattle. The researcher suggested a few ideas, one of which was the net promoter score: ask users if they would recommend the product to a friend.I researched net promoter score further. Here’s what I found on Wikipedia:I never responded to ATT’s text. So I don’t know whether ATT would have asked me for an open-ended elaboration.Most of all, I was pissed that I did not consent to a survey.An ATT sales rep could stop me as I’m about to leave the store and ask:Is it more costly? Sure. ATT will have to pay a real person to ask these questions. However, the data they gather would be actionable. Currently, ATT is utilizing the GIGO method for marketing research. A poorly worded question over a means of communication ill-suited for surveys will result in virtually useless data or worse. Garbage in, garbage out.Here’s a sample answer to these questions:— “I was trying to buy the new iPhone 6.”— “I assumed that the Apple servers would be so overwhelmed that my chance to buy the new phone would be better in-store.”— “I didnt like the fact that nobody greeted me when I walked in. I stood around for at least a minute, until someone [a store manager] came to me and said ‘hi what can I help you with’ followed by ‘okay take a seat you’re going to be #2 in line’.”— “I also wish he gave me a rough estimate of how long it might take, like ten minutes, so I knew whether I should dive into reading a book, or just wait around. I don’t like waiting for an unknown amount of time.”— “Probably a seven. It was a good experience. The customer service rep who handled my order was very friendly and down to earth. He made ordering the new iPhone fun. However, the whole process took longer than I anticipated.”How could ATT benefit from an in-person survey?While I’m certain an in-store survey could improve the customer experience, would this data drive growth for ATT as a business? Not materially. Telecom customers are sticky. They are probably willing to put up with less than stellar customer service because perceived switching costs are high. This is especially true if customers are on a family plan, where all members of the family would have to switch to another provider. There are often break-up fees for terminating a contract.However, ATT can grow their business financially by doing two things: dissuade customers from leaving and encourage new customers from other providers to switch to ATT. This is why a net promoter score framework is so appealing. It allows ATT to identify the detractors and the promoters. The company can respond by tailoring a marketing strategy to each group. For example, ATT could target known promoters with this campaign: “get a customer to join ATT, and your next month’s bill is free”.If ATT improves their survey response rates by a fraction of a percent, they’ve suddenly identified thousands of new net promoters and detractors that they previously did not know about.How might they do this? Assess whether a revised survey message results in higher response rates by using an A/B test. One sample group receives the original ATT survey message (the control) and one sample group receives the revised message. Measure response rates to each message.This kind of information could be used by a marketing department to stem the flow of customers leaving and add new customers to the service. It’s a simple way for ATT to utilize user experience design to grow their business.UX designer  researcher. Seattle transplant.

Most applications I know of are made to be used by humans. Good applications are supposed to provide value. In order to provide value to a human, an application must (A) do something, and (B) get used by a human.As an app-creator, its very easy to focus on (A); what an app When we think about (B), it’s often within the context of design. We know what we want the app to do, and we know that we’d like our user-interfaces to be aesthetically pleasing. However, it’s difficult to put ourselves in the shoes of a stranger experiencing our product for the first time when we’ve become so familiar with its every detail during development.This may be the single biggest obstacle in acquiring, and more importantly, retaining early users. It’s why user testing and measurement are considered so essential for growth. It’s why the startup community has embraced Paul Graham’s unofficial motto, Compounding the challenge are the average user’s tightly-budgeted attention span, unforgiving memory, and slender chances of giving actionable feedback.Given these conditions, and with functionality being equal, what differentiates really good apps?The single most important way to improve a user’s experience is to remove the biggest obstacles from their path. The first tough task they must accomplish is understanding what your product does. Their next challenge might be getting through the sign up flow, after which they’ll eventually have to learn how to actually This is a huge missed opportunity.The initial moments after sign up are the ideal time to go above and beyond by guiding newcomers via a A good visible example of a company successfully employing user-onboarding tactics is Pinterest, record-holder for fastest growth of a standalone website ever. When new users sign up, they are put through a highly engaging series of steps intended to help get them up and running immediately:All of this serves to communicate the core value of the product quickly, and teaches one how to access the features of the product as intended. Each step is brief and focused on accomplishing a specific onboarding goal, with few distractions, and minimal wasted attention-span.Almost any large, successful social network can be taken as a case-study for the impact of user-onboarding. In such networks, individual users derive value from their social connections within the community. Without connections to other people, there would be no content with which to populate your news feed. Therefore, it has been a publicly stated strategy of nearly all the biggest networks to implement user-onboarding processes which guide you through connecting with specific people on the platform as quickly as possible. Life on Twitter begins with suggestions that you follow some brands or celebrities. Facebook uses cues you provide to make amazingly accurate suggestions of people you know and should ‘friend’. These companies learn about a user’s preferences during onboarding, and leverage them to connect people with things they like early and often. This has been statistically proven to increase retention and sharing.The process of targeting your audience, learning about them, and helping them accomplish their goals in your app, can make a huge difference at any stage of your conversion funnel. The creative presentation and contents of any given onboarding flow will be very different from app to app, but the fundamentally important thing is that these are powerful opportunities to personalize and focus every user’s early experiences with your product in ways that can influence whether or not they come back.We have found that building and optimizing your user-onboarding flows can be complex and time consuming — that’s why we built Visit us: orContact us: We’d love to hear from you.User-onboarding as a service

“We make your customers love you.” As one of the pillars at Salesforce, this not only applies to our customers’ customers, but to our customers as well. For Salesforce employees, this means being highly focused on customers, and as marketers, we believe this relationship begins on the web. Whether a user landed at It may be more important to first define what kind of web experience you want for your user.As part of the Salesforce digital marketing team, the Web Experience Manager, or WEM, partners with various groups to deliver 1. Help our customers understand, learn and experience our brand2. Assemble a journey that guides visitors from being a prospective lead to becoming a customer and eventually becoming part of our Success CommunityThe success of any web initiative on the company website is due largely in part to the WEMs and their broad skillset. They advise and consult on strategy and technology in the project’s planning and concepting phase; they coordinate with stakeholders; and they are hands-on with the build and delivery of the content, assets, and web pages themselves. All this work is done with the goal of delivering the best web experience for our customer. Think of us as a “Throughout this process, the WEMs collaborate with a cross-functional team of partners. Within our digital marketing team, these include:They also work with our larger marketing and sales teams in product marketing, industry marketing, campaigns, PR, etc. with counterparts around the world to support 18 separate websites in 13 different languages.This unique mixture of creative, technology and business helps us deliver a world-class digital experience on What do you aim to achieve with your public website? How is your digital marketing team structured to deliver a compelling web experience for your customer?The Customer Success Platform

It is not a new concept say that technology has been changing the human being. Digital medias are making easier to find information and also improving the communication process. Those transformations have impacted also in the economic value. According Joseph Pine and James Gilmore So, we moved from an agrarian economy to an industrial economy. Well, what then happened over the last 60 or 70 years, is that goods have become commoditized. Commoditized: where they’re treated like a commodity, where people don’t care who makes them. They just care about price. Now, there’s an antidote to commoditization, and that is customization. On Joseph Pine first book, called “Mass Customization” Consequently, we moved from an industrial economy to a service-based economy. But over the past 20 or 30 years, what’s happened is that services are being commoditized as well. The Internet is commoditizing not just goods, but services as well. What that means is that it’s time to move to a new level of economic value. Time to go beyond the goods and the services, and use, in that same heuristic, what happens when you customize a service? What happens when you design a service that is so appropriate for a particular person that’s exactly what they need at this moment in time? Then you can’t help but make them go “wow”; you can’t help but turn it into a memorable event, you can’t help but turn it into an experience. So, we’re shifting to an experience economy, where experiences are becoming the predominant economic offering.A great example of this economy value journey is a grain of coffee and Starbucks. Coffee when treated as a commodity is worth three of five cents per cup. When treated as a good it will cost ten or fifteen cents per cup. However, when treated as an experience as Starbucks offers for their customers, can worth four, five dollars for a cup of coffee.Joseph Pine spoke about the economy valued change process at TED 2004 The first one is related with who has the responsibility of creating these experiences. As Lou Carbone said once:The customer/user experience has always existed, and it has been executed in different areas such as: information architecture, communication design, interaction design, marketing and technology The second big change is happening right now. With the creation of: ux design process, ux designer jobs, ux design department and also ux design agencies, businesses with a good user experience is becoming commoditized. However, the progression of economy value will never stop change and according Pine and Gilmore, the future of economy will be “Transformation”.The economy of Transformation happens when businesses provide services, products and experiences that are so amazing that can change behaviors of their users and improve their lives. Take a look to the picture below to see how the economy value progress has changed As you could imagine, it is a tough job create experiences that will change people’s behaviors. It is not easy, although if you fancy someday be in the hall of fame with Tony Fadell, Larry Page, Sergey Brin, Joe Gebbia and other names of design and technology, you should know more about what is behind unforgettable experiences.I know that this question is so broad and probably there is no right answer for it. However, in this part of my thesis, we will delve deep into the user experience design process, even though each professionals follow a distinct ways and methodologies of work, my goals here are: Let’s start with one simple question: What is UX Design?There many definitions for user experience, but according Russ Unger and Carolyn Chandler What is interesting is that one of the most exciting developments of the past few years has been the ability to merge the elements affecting these different senses into a richer, integrated experience. And, the development of this ability is the area that this piece of work will focus on, how can we provide richer and integrated experiences through storytelling.To create unforgettable and wondrous experiences, a UX designer needs to understand how to create a logical and viable structure for the experience and needs to understand the elements that are important to creating an emotional connection with the product’s users.As a good writer, a UX designers must have the ability to immerse yourself in the worlds of potential product users to understand their needs and motivations. To be truly connected with the users’ universe and to come up with memorable idea, UX designers usually follow a common process structure that we can find similarities with Design Thinking, Service Design and Human Centered Design approaches.According the book The The The The final phase is called Before delve deep into all these tasks inside the Double Diamond steps, it is important to know that they may vary, as may the degree to which they overlap and the way information is documented. However, the general activities in each steps are common to all three traditional approaches: A The second approach is called Agile A traditional Agile model calls for small teams whose members are located next to each other physically with little focus on defining formal roles between them. The advantage of this model is the flexibility to change and the high level collaboration between team members. Consequently, Agile approach optimizes time, because all members discuss together before start to documented everything, throwing out useless documentation. On the other hand, this model needs all members 100% focus and present to move forward, so with someone miss one discussion or one step of the process, this could lead the group to fail. As my personal experience, I have worked in groups with Agile model and one member our team missed an important meeting, after that he got completely lost, making question about previous steps again. Consequently, we had to spend a lot time to explain what happens and do it again to put him on the same page as us.The digital world change our way to work, it is easier to find information and also to develop idea than ten years ago. However, you should be asking yourself how designers move from an waterfall approach, which favors detailed documentation and takes weeks or months per phase, to an agile approach, which favors quick decisions making, without getting lost?To answer that question, we will delve deep into the third approach: Lean UX.In order to understand what kind of documentation we can discard in the process to earn time the Lean UX was created by Jeff Gothelf and Josh Seiden. This approach is about:Some of the principles of Lean UX include: focus on validated learning, continuous loop of Build-Measure-Learn Knowing these three approaches is essential for creative professional. It helps you to lighten: your expectations on how project team members will collaborate, the level of detail needed in your documentation, important milestones that involve approval from stakeholders and deployment to different groups. Personally, it helped a lot to understand how the industry is using UX Design process during my interviews.Aiming to get out of theory and see how the practice works, during those 6 months I have been chatting with UX designers in order to understand how agencies are applying the user experience process to help them to deliver digital product and services for clients.As an outcome of my six interviews, I have found three different scenarios: As you we know, all those three places are really traditional on the communication industry. Although they have distinct process and methodologies to work and a huge structure with more than twenty employees, they have a similar scenario when you are looking to the design approaches and the experience design department.First, all of them follow the Second similarity is: they born with a business strategy and business communication focus, so the structure and the design process inside them are not new and not focus on digital deliveries. It will take a while for them to in fact implement a well structured UX methodology, but they don’t have time to test it, and also, they don’t need to, because it is easier to build partnership with UX Studios to help them in specific jobs.As consequences of this structure, the UX designers there do not follow exactly a process on their job, they work as a consultant. Ideally, they work as a bridge between the planning department and the creative department when the job has a main digital focus. However, be invited to follow a project since the beginning not usually happens. The common daily scenario for them is either receive final ideas from the creative department to analyze how they can deliver in the best way possible, or receive concepts from the planning department to develop and give suggestion for transform in digital solutions and then move forward the brief for the creative department.In this scenario, Ive noticed that a good storytelling it is necessary to keep a project connected. Although those kind of agencies follow a waterfall approach, they move forward fast, the time pressure is constant, everything should be delivered “yesterday”. Consequently, UX designers must show their work and documentations through stories, because rational bullet points presentation will be easily forgotten and the chances to deliver a not user centered project in the end are really big.When those agencies come up with a complex digital solution, usually who deliver the final product is our second business model: The During my time as a master student at In my opinion those Digital Studios have the most efficient structure to work co-creating digital solutions. Lawrence explained that their product teams work together with clients under an Agile approach, iterative design and development process. Usually we can see that all teams have: a designer, a UX designer, a developer, a project manager, a business strategist and a copywriter. The team works together since the beginning until the end, they discuss ideas in group and define which way they should follow. Using sprints to test their assumptions, learn, fix and move forward, they have more speed to execute an idea than What is interesting about this studio model is that you not necessary creates for a client. Sometimes teams focus energy to build new platforms and services for society or for entertainment, as the game “For this business model, storytelling is everything. Storytelling is inside Personas, Story Maps and Customer Journeys. They are not focus on document everything they have found, but they are really focus on telling an unforgettable story about what they have developed. Summing up, a good storytelling can not only helps them on present those concepts, but also helps them on the process to come up with new brands, new platforms and product.To conclude the second chapter of this piece of work, I will present the final model: To understand more about those advertising agencies that had born digital, I interviewed three amazing UX designer: Christopher Lee Ball, UX Director  UK Head of UX at Digital agency born to guide brands through this new connected world. They understand that communication has changed, consequently, for brands be remembered, they need more than cool films on television.Those agencies go beyond the advertising, they think on ecosystems, they think on platform and services that can connect brands and customers, as an example we all know The concept of an Accelerator is: specific teams that get together to come up with future ideas for clients or for the agency. They normally work on an Agile approach and develop solution focused on business transformation through technology. An awesome example how you can make accelerators even more fun, it is how I guess I don’t need to say how storytelling is important for this business model. Basically, they have the same needs of both previous model and as they have more focus on communication than UX Studios, they need to work hard to create amazing transmedia campaigns as well.How professional storytelling techniques can help the design process to create unforgettable digital products / services?

Even during the Middle Ages, there was genuine concern with user experience and interaction. Governments, churches and even fishmongers relied on a complicated hybrid language of text, pictograms and color to “share data” amongst its mostly illiterate users. As illiteracy waned towards the end of the 14th-century, the intersection of user experience and interface — user engagement — saw greater experimentation with design and representation of text and picture. Icons morphed into abstractions, narratives transitioned in prose laden with textuality and art expanded into new dimensions; there was more “data” available to readers than ever before.Information became an art.To further demonstrate the prowess of medieval new media pioneers in the 15th-century, Perhaps adding further injury to 21st-century digital agencies, “immersive” content and a structural approach to user interface was well in practice before the first light-bulb flickered on. While this is not a discussion of the divides between At its most basic reduction, user experience and interface as a framework for the transmission of information has been in practice for nearly 40,000 years. One of the first known examples of humans creating visual information clearly demonstrates critical thought about presentation and interaction. Not only were the walls scraped and smoothed at Chauvet-Pont-d’Arc Cave to achieve a more uniform color and surface, they were etched to give them greater visual depth and impact. One of the first human artists seems to have been a user experience designer as well. But even our friend in France was bested by another; the journal Perhaps that’s what is most troubling about consumable nature of mass audience data. Unlike formal art housed in temples of cultural religiosity protected from the effects of time, “objets de design” are fleeting, disposable by nature and created for immediacy. Advertising, as it turns out, was just as brutal and deep in ancient Pompeii as it is now. In fact, the walls of Pompeii acted as a modern day Twitter and Foursquare as graffiti Looking outside of the history of the West, perhaps the most proficient interface and experience designers are found in Africa. The Metropolitan Museum’s The struggles of interface and experience designers has always been a question of relevance. User interface patents now make up The allure of user interface and experience was the approach of bringing in ideas and reimagining products from user-centric perspective. “Applications with functional deficiencies will not be saved by interface or experience design. If Consider the In an ironic twist, interface and experience design amongst other design principals has become  Operations • Print • Writing 

Now that we have relocated to Dubai, we decided to get our hands dirty with some cooking. I went on to search for a rice cooker on The results were pretty neat — there were filters. I found the Black  Decker one that I was looking for. I clicked ‘Add to Cart’ (AED 145), clicked ‘Checkout’ and then guess what — account creation is mandatory! Bummer.— heard of I went ahead and entered my email address. Then waited for the confirmation email. And waited. And waited some more. 5 minutes and still nothing. Bummed again, I did a resend email. 10 minutes later, I got 2 emails, and then was asked to I was running out of patience…I had also heard about The details page was neat minus social media plugins — same price AED 145, I could clearly see what I was getting, shipping options (I was totally sold. I added to cart, and went to the checkout page. I don’t have a UAE credit/debit card yet, so I wanted to try out cash on delivery.I went back to Souq, since I remembered seeing cash on delivery in the header/footer. I selected CoD on their checkout page (it said AED 4 extra — I was ok to pay the convenience fee). Boom! The price goes to AED 161! I have no idea why until I see on the right side that it includes Hmm why wasn’t the shipping price listed on the details page? I would assume it’s free unless listed.Finally I decided to go back to Jadopado — and I saw the Paypal option for payment. I was very relieved. I just ordered.Next day — while Souq.com was trying to get me back on their site via their email re-marketing campaign, Jadopado was sending me the shipment notification. Folks at Jadopado, I can see the smile on your faces as you read this. Pat yourselves on the back☺.Souq.com probably lost more than just a sale today — they lost in me an “Amazon Prime Platinum buyer”, if I may.Appleified, Stanfordized, 
Startupistic, createive ritenow.in

This year, Triggertrap was accepted into the Microsoft Ventures Accelerator programme. Highly recommended, currently They don’t take equity, and they don’t pay us anything — very unusual for an accelerator. So, what’s in it for them?Microsoft use the startups in the accelerator to do customer development, and to encourage us to use their platforms (especially They also make it clear that they don’t force any of their software or platforms on the startups in the accelerator. Well, with one exception: The Microsoft Ventures accelerator culminates in the Pitch Day, which is where the startups that were part of the accelerator pitch to the who-is-who of VCs, Angels, and movers and shakers of the European startup world. For this particular pitch, the startups So, after having spent weeks on perfecting my pitch in Keynote, I have spent two days trying to re-create my pitch in PowerPoint — a piece of software I haven’t used in the past decade.It has been a frustrating experience, but it got me thinking: Microsoft is big on user development and feedback, so here goes:If you are an iOS user, you’ll have seen several types of patterns. If you use the Mail app, you’ll have learned that swiping an e-mail in a list to the left gives you the option to delete it. Swipe it to the right, you’ll be able to mark it as read. This was something you’ll have learned at some point, and as you get used to it, it becomes an incredibly useful shortcut. The next time you load up a list of things (say, a list of Notes, or a list of alarms set in your Clock app), you grow to expect that swiping to the left enables you to delete them. Lo and behold: It works!These expectations are known as platform design conventions: In a piece of software you’ve never used, because you’re using a platform you’re accustomed to, you’ve already learned some of the things you’re able to do, by virtue of knowing the platform. You know that Apple+Q quits your app. Apple+S saves your document. Apple+C copies, +V pastes, and +X cuts. These are all conventions specific to your OS, and you expect them to work the same across all apps.This, I believe, is one of the things Microsoft gets so profoundly wrong in its consumer software — and especially in the software designed for Mac OS.Forgive me a short detour where I speak about the Microsoft software package I use almost every day: Microsoft Word.Apart from this CEO’ing malarkey, But it baffles me how frequently Word crashes.I think, on average, for every book I write, I cumulatively lose at least two days worth of work due to the app deciding to kick the bucket every few hours. I’ve learned the hard way, and I’m now using It’s not that I hate Word. I love it. I just wish it would Okay, back to the point of this story…As I’m spending the day in Powerpoint, and as it’s been highlighted that Microsoft wants to use our participation in the accelerator to do some customer development, I figured I’d vent some of my frustr… I mean… share some of my suggestions for future development.Apple’s Keynote is one of those software packages that But that’s not what this blog post is about: it’s about design patterns.In pretty much every graphical package I’ve ever used in the past 20 years, you’d expect to be able to nudge things around. What I mean by that: Select an object, and press left or right. That makes the object move left or right by a single pixel. Press ‘shift’ and an arrow, and it nudges 10 pixels at the time.This is true for every piece of software…Except PowerPoint.Yes, you can select an item and nudge it with the arrow keys, but hold shift, and suddenly you’re changing the size of the object. ‘Not a big deal’, you might say — but UX designers disagree: By not following convention, Microsoft is not just frustrating their own users, but also ruining it for others: If, to achieve something basic in two different pieces of software, you have to learn two different actions, it’s frustrating and pointless.It means switching between apps is harder. It means learning new apps is harder. Much worse: You may never learn the expected behaviours and/or keyboard shortcuts, and you spend your entire working day using the menu systems or clicking on menu bars, which has a huge negative impact on overall productivity.One of the biggest problems I have with Microsoft software is that they haven’t implemented one of the most common Apple design patterns: Apple + A. This key combo is used in every other software package as ‘select all’. Except in Microsoft products.If I select a cell in Microsoft Excel and press Apple + A, I expect it to select the entire sheet. It does. Yay.However, if I’m editing a formula in Excel and I press Apple+A, I expect it to select the entire contents of that cell, so I can delete, edit, or copy it. It doesn’t. This is something so fundamental in OS X that not doing what the customer expects is not a design choice at that point — it’s simply Similarly, when you’re editing a formula and you press ‘up’, you’d expect the text indicator to jump to the beginning of the formula. Press down, you expect it to jump to the end. If it doesn’t do either of those things, perhaps it should take you to the cell above or underneath. Instead, it does nothing.OS X has accepted conventions for all sorts of things, and I keep running into them in my day-to-day interactions with Microsoft’s software. Close all windows (Apple + Shift + W), for example, is ignored by Excel, and supported in pretty much every other piece of software I use.Imagine, if you will, that you are using Microsoft PowerPoint, and you have a bulleted list consisting of white text. You have three bullets, but you want four, so you place your indicator at the end of the line, and press enter, then you start typing.Pop quiz: What colour would you expect the text to be?Did you say ‘White’? Congratulations, you win.Imagine for a second that instead of white, your text came out black. You figure this is just because you were at the end of a line, so your formatting wasn’t carried across. So instead, you place the indicator at the middle of a line, and press enter to create a new bullet point. You start typing.Pop quiz: What colour would you expect the new text to be?Did you say ‘White’? Congratulations, you win.Imagine for a second that instead of white, your text came out black. Again. Maybe this is just a one-off bug, you think. You fix it by copying a whole line to a new bullet point, then continuing work.In doing this, you’ve run into two bugs, found workarounds for them, and continued working. Well done, you’re a power user. But, undeniably: All those little workarounds take you out of the flow of what you’re doing. Instead of figuring out why your software is doing something other than you’d expect, wouldn’t you much rather be working on creating your presentation?In my experience, as a Mac OS X user using Microsoft products, this sort of thing is the norm rather than the exception. Instead of being actually Try this one on for size:For my presentation, I had a group of transitions that all happened at the same time, and I wanted them to only go to the next transition when I click the mouse. So…… I can see a list, and options pertaining to an item on that list underneath. I figured I could select the whole list, and change them all at the same time. So…… I click on the list and press Apple+A to select the whole list. Then…… I discover that Apple+A doesn’t work in a list of transitions (why?!), so I select the bottom one, then hold Shift and click the top one to select them all. At least that worked, but…… Now that they are all selected, I discover that the options at the bottom of the screen disappear (why?!), and I’m unable to bulk edit the ‘start on click’ setting. So…… Instead of making a dozen changes with a single click…… I have to click 24 times. That feels like data entry work, and I find myself contemplating whether I should write a script to do all the clicking for me. But no, that would be insane. So I click 24 times, and wonder whether this isn’t the sort of stuff that computers are meant to be Next, I expect to be able to drag animations into a different order…… Only to realise it isn’t clear what you’re dragging where: It looks like you’re overwriting one transitions with another (why?!). The convention on Mac OS X is having a little black bar that appears between two transitions, indicating where you’re about to insert the transition….… Because it isn’t clear what happens when you drag something from one place in the list to another, I give up on re-ordering them. However…… I notice there are little arrows you can click to change the order of the item in a list. Why?! Isn’t that precisely what drag-and-drop is good for?I have a gorgeous Timelapse video — a MP4 file. It plays fine in Keynote, in Quicktime, in VLC, in Pages, in Preview, and… At that point I couldn’t be arsed testing it any further. As far as OS X is concerned, this is a perfectly valid video file. No problems at all. I drag it into PowerPoint…… But the video refuses to play. Why?!…. Instead of being productive, I spend the next 45 minutes trying to troubleshoot, transcoding the video into another format… But eventually…… After 45 minutes, I get frustrated and I give up. I use another video instead. Why?!… The new video, which works fine in Keynote and Quicktime, plays in PowerPoint (Yess…) — but the video playback stutters. WHY?!At this point I give up. I have wasted an hour trying to get a video to play, then replaced it with a video I didn’t want to use, and now I’m stuck with a video I didn’t want to use which doesn’t play properly. But I’m on a goddamn deadline, and if the video stutters during the presentation, so be it.At this point, I’m seething. None of this was a problem in Keynote. Why is it so hard in PowerPoint?! Why am I using PowerPoint again?I have the newest version of PPT installed. It’s called PowerPoint 2011, has a copyright notice for 2010, and feels 5 years out of date.I remember when I first started using Windows 3.1 — all software was expected to have an ocean of tiny idiosyncrasies, bugs, and slightly different implementations of the same features. GUIs were new, all of this was to be expected. Windows 95 came along — but around the same time, I discovered Mac OS (System 7, since you ask), and as soon as I could afford it, I switched.I’m not saying that Mac OS is flawless — but I stopped being interested in Windows for the same reason I don’t use Linux: Computers for the sake of computers are boring to me. I don’t really care These days, I’m using a large number of tools that Through using reliable operating systems and solid software over the past few years, I’ve unlearned the ‘I hope this works’ feeling as you try to accomplish something on a computer. That’s the reason why I use a Mac. And that’s the reason why using Microsoft Powerpoint is so painful: Keynote works — and it works in exactly the same way, using the same conventions and same keyboard shortcuts — as all the other software I use all the time. PowerPoint does not.Unfortunately for Microsoft, I doubt that getting PowerPoint to work a way a Mac OS X software application If you run a startup that’s coding software, the #1 thing you can learn from this is that platform conventions are This is also — perhaps especially — true for desktop applications. Deciding to be aware of the conventions for the platform you are developing for is a fundamental decision — one that needs to be applied as a constraint on your software before even a single line of code is written. The last thing you want is for your customers to give up on your softwareCEO at ScreenCloud, founded Triggertrap, wrote a load of books, public speaker  fan of 3D printing, crowdfunding, scuba diving, reading, and photography

Exploring the User Experience and Design Decisions behind Microsoft’s latest Operating SystemAbout a year ago, Microsoft released Windows 8 to much hype. The Redmond-based company basically said touch was everything and the only thing to think about. But most of Windows users are still on non-touch laptops and desktops so Microsoft tried to integrate the keyboard-mouse experience into Windows 8. Most reviews had said that the company had failed and that the traditional interactions are awkward clumsy. As a result, I didn’t upgrade — until now.After a series of partition-merging, hard disk-crashing events, which is an interesting story on its own, I had fresh hard disk to start from scratch. I decided give Windows 8 a shot. This is my take on Microsoft’s As soon as you startup Windows 8, the interface looks much, much cleaner. Microsoft is known for its sharp-edged corners and there isnt a single rounded corner on sight. I dont find it annoying or anything but you might think otherwise. I like the lack of extreme gradients, making it easy to focus on the content instead of how the application looks. As the saying goes — Good Design is Invisible.It wont take long for you to understand that Windows 8 is heavily biased towards the new, modern apps. Almost all the default apps inherent the new look and opens up in immersive full screen. The most obnoxious default app — to me — was the new calculator which takes up all the screen space for doing some simple calculation. If you feel the same you can use the old calculator which has been included out-of-the-box with Windows 8. Other than that, the new apps are pretty good. I especially dig the Music app (Xbox Music) which does some clever wizardry to download unprovided album art and other information. In the end of the day, the app feels much more premium and polished to use when everything looks so nice. Software not optimized for the new look runs on the traditional desktop which, by the way, acts like just another app.The whole story with Windows 8 is the Start menu, a tiled grid, each representing an app. When done right the Start menu is invaluable, giving you useful information at one central place. Those apps of course have to be configured to support the live tile functionality which many apps lack still. But those who have it are pretty good. For example, The email app (which works with my @erubai.com email address) gives me notification for new email; the weather app shows me the weather alongside a beautiful background image; the Flipboard app tells me what is happening in the world and the Skype app tells me about missed messages which absolutely awesome because I use Skype as my primary method of communication with my peers.The Windows 8 experience can be summed up into one word — The only complaint that I have with performance is that the Pictures app is kind of slow even though I dont have a single picture on my hard drive that it needs to load. Windows 8 also has this auto-booting up problem that makes it incredibly creepy. The other day, I had shutdown the computer and went to get a glass of water. Upon returning I saw the computer boot up, login to my account and then open up Chrome — all automatically! If you happen to know what the problem might be, let me know.One of the best things about Windows 8 is how tightly integrated OneDrive (Formerly SkyDrive) is. Anything and Everything has the option to be synced and backed up by OneDrive. You get 15GB of space with a free account so you should definitely backup all your stuff.Windows 8 has been great so far and I hope that doesnt change. The key to using Windows 8 — in my opinion — is to give live tiles and the default applications a fair shot. I have seen too many times that people switching to Windows 8 and using it like Windows 7. There is nothing wrong with that but does not make for a good user experience. When using Windows 8, try to use Reader for reading PDF; the default Music app for listening to Music; the Facebook app for Facebooking and the Twitter app for Tweeting. 2 weeks in, I definitely prefer Windows 8 over 7.Deep Thoughts  Infinite Loops.

or how to save a phone number using android 5.1.1 with nexus 5ok google, let`s go.I need to save some important numbersimple stepsthen I’m trying to find the “I’m sure it’s on a bottom of the page. no!?.maybe here? noso, where this button is???for clear understanding we need “save” or “done” of “finish” button.it’s clear and understandable, and everyone know it.thanks!авантюра з навчанням в School of form (Познань, Польща)

Kurt: The tax world is a very messy place. Every year there’s over 8 million delinquent tax accounts. Last year over 3.8 million people didn’t pay their taxes on time. This is 162,000 more than 2010. There is over 600 billion dollars that is owed to the IRS every single year. In fact our tax code is so complicated that 56% of tax returns that are prepared by a paid tax professional have errors. This paradigm has created one of the worlds most underserved industries.To help remedy the growing pain of the tax industry, we’re creating a new class of software products that is laser focused on creating a painless, delightful, and authentic experience for tax professionals and the clients they serve. Canopy is a refreshing voice in an industry that has been begging for innovation and change. However, that change doesn’t come easily. The challenge that we face is: How do we deliver the best experience for such an intricately complex system?We’re building a sophisticated suite of software products that add utility to several adjacent pain points that practitioners and their clients face. Every product we build focuses on accuracy, collaboration, and automation. The response we’ve received so far from the accounting and tax world has been overwhelming.Today, we offer a platform that facilitates client management and tax resolution (the tax collection process). Not too long ago, clients were still expected to divulge thousands of pieces of data on paper. It took hours to complete and return the information that your tax practitioner needed to even start analyzing possible outcomes. With Canopy, clients are guided through an automated survey experience that is able to tailor and adapt the questions asked of the client, based on relevance and applicability. As soon as clients have breezed through the automated on boarding experience, the accountant is immediately able to review analytics that present all of the possible outcomes straight to their desktop. Basically, this one small portion of our application has ensured perpetual data integrity, saved the client hours of free time, and increased the margins of the tax practitioner exponentially.We’re extremely about passionate making the client experience better and more collaborative, and allowing professionals to leverage their newly found free time to grow their practices.Kurt: As we grow we want to become the most demanded product for all things tax. We want to make the lives of all tax practitioners and their clients easier, so much so that Canopy is demanded in every tax interaction. We want to reshape the way that accountants and tax professionals think about taxes. We have a lot of work to do, and an enormous amount of opportunity in front of us.Nate: We’re moving extremely fast as a company. We’re looking for a user experience designer that can keep up with that speed, and still be able to keep a watchful eye on the most intricate details in the user experience. We’re looking for someone that understands what makes products truly great. The perfect candidate would be able to own a project from concept to launch. We need someone that is extremely passionate about quality and precision. This point might seem trite, but our team wears a lot of hats. Because of that we need a designer that understands all angles of design at a visceral level. They should be able to craft delightful interactions and systems for our users, but still have a passion and aptitude for beautiful visual design. The right candidate is a great communicator and collaborator.Something that’s also really important to us is finding someone that isn’t afraid to make mistakes, and then learn from them as soon as they can. They should have a strong desire to make decisions, and be eager to be accountable for them if they mess up. It’s a part of life. We’re doing something wrong as an organization if we’re always walking on egg shells.Nate: Client collaboration for tax professionals is a unique problem set. We need to ensure that clients are appraised of the right things at the right time. Tax professionals struggle to obtain and keep accurate records. They’re forced into a back and forth paradigm between the client and the IRS. The problem that we need to solve is around equipping professionals with right amount of information, while tailoring an elegant and simple experience for their clients. It’s like a culinary dish: we need the right amount of automation, saturated with simplicity and clarity, with a dash of pleasant beauty.The perfect designer will be able to come on board, and autonomously craft tailored experiences for these problems that clients and their tax professionals face. They’ll be passionate about making interactions that are normally complex and rife with jargon, into something human and engaging. In this industry we are always extremely conscious and sensitive to adoption. Most of the professionals we work with are used to native windows desktop applications. The experiences we create here need to be easily learnable, but still be innovative and modern.Kurt: Culturally speaking, everyone here has a voice. No one has a monopoly on all the right answers, which is why we hire really smart people. That creates a really unique synergy in our team. It removes the politics, and ensures that we’re doing the right things and empathizing with our end users.On Monday morning every week, we have a standup with the entire team. Every other day we do individual team standups — we try and keep those short and valuable. Most of us will step out for lunch, then come back and wrap up with a competitive foosball game.Because we’re moving really fast, we work really hard to keep our roadmap and work in the right priority. We’re constantly iterating our products, and validating assumptions we’ve made with our customers as early as possible. Canopy is a typical fast paced startup, so we keep our feedback as short as possible. There’s a lot of collaboration that happens in our team.UX 

Working at IBM gives me the opportunity to talk with many students and new hires about User Experience Design. And often they want to know how they can find out more about the topic like for example through good books, websites or other styles to learn. That’s why I started a collection with initial recommendations. Please notice that user experience (UX) is a giant topic and many dependencies — it’s not only the way something looks (the user interfaces) but everything the user will experience consciously or unconsciously.There are some “classics” a lot of friends and colleagues have in their shelve. Often you will think this are too old books, but user experience is something which hasn’t changed in it’s core values. You have to understand how people will see a website, a app, a service or product you are going to create or improve. Founding fathers like And most of the It’s time for a bonus! These short articles will also help you to get an overview:The thing with all this new media is that it’s growing so fast. At least since their are services like Twitter everybody can publish content. So it can get difficult not to lose overview. For me I try to enjoy this content without the goal to see or hear it all. Often you will recognize in seconds if this content is interesting to you. And if not: skip it. Eventually it will come back.Still I want to share some places I like to visit again and again:If you need more you also will find a lot of UX people on Twitter. Start searching for the usually keywords and/or follow Look for other like-minded people and talk to them. They don’t bite. Both online and offline there are a lot of smart people willing to share their experiences. You will find them on Barcamps, Meetups, conferences or at university. Often they write blogs or share links via Twitter (see previous suggestion). At first it can be difficult to ask someone strange about a topic you think you have no clue. But we all started this way. Asking questions. Look out for events with a certain topic and don’t be disappointed when you won’t understand everything. And don’t get mad when someone can’t offer you enough time — they have a reason for this (work, life, …) that usually isn’t you. Ask them for something to drink (I go with hot chocolate) and they will give you advice in return.I created my first website when I was nine years old. It was some kind of student newspaper and poesy album. This was the time of Microsoft Frontpage and Lycos Tripod. I wanted to create a digital place for my class — and this was my main drive why I learned things about Webdesign and how other people used this page (their user experience). Since then a lot of code and design was created and even today I would say the greatest learning leaps I reached with private projects. Look for something you don’t like (an app or a website) and start creating. This could end up in sketches, mockups or even your own websites. In this manner you have to search for more knowledge.I think this list gives you a good starting point to learn more about User Experience. For me it helped a lot to find people with the similar interests (but often other ways of approaching the topic). This helped me to find out my main emphasis on this giant topic. I learn most likely when I have a goal (private project, a new job position or similar) and not when I have to learn.Also this list is here to grow. Do you have any recommendations for people seeking for new knowledge? How is your team/company building up skills?Senior UX Consultant  Interaction Designer at IBM iX. My head full of nonsene and the mouth full of chocolate. I collect #Einweggedanken.

The design process is messy and full of things that get trashed in order to achieve focus and clarity. Start with a What is your unique offering? Take hints from your research. List no more then 5 statements. Consider making posters of each principle: you can print them and refer to them as you progress with sketching and visual design. Principles should be focused and not generic.Get your own sketch kit with pencils and coloured + dif weight pens. Use a non-photo pencil for harder drawings, fine tips to sketch in general, fat tips to call attention to details, red fine tip for notes, grey chisel tip for depth and paper with or without device templates.Using large sheets of brown paper, create a canvas (Make use of This will lead to Use Set up a A powerful tool you should use is To understand what impression or feeling a specific screen gives to the user, do a You can keep a Even if everyone in your team appreciates good user experience, sometimes raising some awareness to the needs of user research and testing are important. Here are some good methods to do it:Senior Product Designer 

We live in a world where subjects like user-experience design and user-interface design are established enough disciplines that we feel inclined to shorten them to UX/UI design and people still know what we are talking about. Yet it’s amazing how many times I still find myself on a website and feel my frustration level rising because I can’t figure out how to do what seems to me should be a simple task.I’ve outlined below 5 principles of user-centered interface design, principles to help our websites and applications keep us on track. I am most familiar with website and mobile interfaces, but really these principles can be applied to any interface, or anytime someone has a point of contact with a digital or mechanical system. An interface can be a navigation menu, a search field, a dialog box, a selection pointer, a tools palette, a drag-and-drop feature, a web form, a simple button, and so much more. An interface is also the power button on your computer, and the volume knob on your stereo. And the touchscreen of your iPad. Interfaces are the layers through which we humans interact with our machines. In my world of web design, interfaces are so important because regardless of a website’s content, if someone can’t navigate easily around your site, that great content may never be found. And the world may never know about the video of your seriously… cutest… kitten… ever.Now at first glance the principles below may seem rather obvious. Even so, it never hurts to re-emphasize the obvious when it comes to web design best practices. How many times have you needed to just get a website out the door and been tempted to skip over providing alt attributes for those last couple of images you’re using? Resist the temptation! And sometimes even things that seem to be obvious turn out to have been not so obvious at first. If this wasn’t true then all the interfaces out there would be easy to use and there wouldn’t be any need for people like me to write an article stating the obvious. Okay, you’ve waited long enough, on to the principles…Mitchell Kapor wrote a Software Design Manifesto back in 2002, and there is a quote from this paper that I still like to use:“If a user interface is designed ‘after the fact’ it is like designing an automobile dashboard after the engine, chassis, and all other components and functions are specified.”Now at first glance you might be thinking no big deal, a car’s dashboard or website’s interface can be designed once you have all your core components and functionality built. But this will usually get you into trouble. Why? Because your users aren’t interacting directly with your core components — they are experiencing your system, and all that it can do for them, through the interfaces that you provide. And if these interfaces are designed after the fact, it’s almost impossible for them to be able to meet all your users’ goals. In other words, you need to first understand your users — their needs and objectives — in order to create an interface that allows them to effectively access your system’s functionality.The important questions to ask then in creating a user-centered interface are: Who are the users? What are the main functions that the user will need? Why is the user using this particular piece of software/hardware and what are their goals? Is the software/hardware accessible by users of different experience levels? What is the most intuitive way that the user could interact with the software/hardware?For the typical iPhone owner, they don’t care about the brilliance of the software and hardware engineering that went into creating their device, they just know that it is easy and enjoyable to use. Finger swipe, tap, two-finger pinch, slingshot an angry bird. You can bet that Apple never creates anything without first considering how people will interface with their products, and I would guess that a prevailing philosophy of user-centered design at all levels of their product development lifecycle is a big reason for Apple’s success.For websites, creating an interface that is enjoyable to use may seem less obvious, unless you are creating a complex interface for a Flash game, but being enjoyable can be as simple as a navigation structure that is straight-forward and intuitive. Even so, with more and more applications moving to the cloud and our browser becoming our operating system, creating effective, easy and enjoyable interfaces for our web products has never been more important. I recently switched from desktop based wireframing software (Axure, Omnigraffle) to an online application called Lucid Chart, and the transition was seamless because the authors made sure to create a web interface that is easy to use and familiar to those migrating from desktop programs.An important concept to help the user maintain a sense of spatial orientation, and sanity, is to remain consistent. From the user’s perspective, this means not only a consistent look and feel to a system’s interfaces, but also that actions performed on the interface result in expected outcomes. If the same action is repeated, the system needs to respond in a consistent manner.I still occasionally come across the odd website that actually changes the order of its nav bar or sub-nav links depending on what page you are on on their site. To me this is the equivalent of switching your car’s gas and brake pedals depending on whether you are driving on the highway or a side road. Interfaces need to remain consistent so that they can fade into the background and not require any higher level of concentration to use.I like an interface that speaks to me. Not literally speak to me (although that might be nice too), but an interface that uses terms that make sense and gives me feedback when I need it.In order to ensure that we don’t get lost and can always find what we are looking for, it’s important for an interface to be labeled properly. Everyone understands what a “home” button should do in a nav bar, but not every menu label is always this obvious. For example, let’s say you have a multi-user game on your website that allows people to compete against each other, move up and down leaderboards, chat, form groups, etc. Do you put this game under the “Multimedia” or “Community” category in your nav if those are your only two options? This is when techniques like card sorting can help you figure out the best navigational structure.A feedback mechanism is also crucial for effective interface design: the user needs to feel that their actions have meaning. We are all familiar with filling out and submitting an online form, for example, but have you ever clicked the submit button and just had the page refresh and be presented with the empty form again? Then you are forced to ask if your information went through, was there an error, should I fill out the form again to make sure? Don’t leave any doubt in your user’s mind — give them feedback for their actions. The quickest way to inhibit enjoyment is to create frustration over simple interface and navigation issues. If you’re like me, testing is never the most fun part of the process, but it is vitally important. It’s a competitive marketplace out there, and if your system’s interface has noticeable bugs you risk losing your users, perhaps forever, no matter how good your content is. Interface problems can be more than just software bugs, however, as a poorly designed interface is still a major issue. A good way to test your interface is by watching people use your system in a real-world scenario. Are they able to navigate around and achieve their objectives with relative easy? Is your interface intuitive to both experienced and less experienced computer users?I will forgive a website for having small interface problems that may make me shake my head a little, but time is a limited resource, and if too many problems are interfering with the tasks I am trying to accomplish, sorry, but I’m moving on.I have a secret to share. I’m a sucker for a beautiful looking website. But the truth is, at the end of the day, a site’s visual aesthetics will more than likely have nothing to do with it’s success or failure. If a site looks good, my attention is captured and I can take pleasure in the design, but then it quickly boils down to whether the site can do for me what I want it to. Key factors for determining a website’s success are its usability and utility. Content is king, of course, but content needs to be found and accessed.So I hope that you will consider these 5 principles of user-centered interface design on your current and future projects. There are, of course, many more principles than just these five, but that’s what books on UX design are for. I’m just hoping to give you some food for thought, or to re-emphasize what you already know, so we can all work towards building a world with better interfaces!The great thing about user-centered interface design is that it never sits still. It incorporates so many different disciplines — hardware and software engineering, ergonomics, psychology, sociology, linguistics, computer science, etc. — that it is an evolving and ever-growing subject, and to fully grasp the intricacies involved means that we can never stop researching and learning about it.Usability  UI Specialist // FNB Digital BankingAll stuff Design  UX

I joined RapidValue as UI/UX Designer few months ago. I got to know about RapidValue from my friend Rino. I had heard about this company that it is exclusively for Mobile Apps. I was looking for an opportunity to join RapidValue, because my previous job I was working on front-end coding for native mobile applications in Java and XML. I’m glad that I made this decision to join RapidValue and I am very happy to be a part of RapidValue family. I am learning many new things, especially since I got a chance to work in many projects as Android front — end developer. In Web technology there is always a front-end developer, but in native mobile apps the front end requires UI developers to get the right user experience. Many times, organizations due to the short time span of the project may not give that much importance to the UI. However, things are different in RapidValue. UI plays a critical role in mobile app development. I believe I fulfilled the gap between mobile developers and UI Designers. By building the front-end by UI developers provides mobile app developers to focus more on functionality. This increases the productivity and quality of application/product as well as UI issues raised by QA team is reduced.Now, I am in a position where I have started RapidValue has given me the opportunity to work on many large client projects based in the US. My task involved developing:In all these projects I was expected and I managed to give maximum pixel perfection to the design and applied the best practices that android recommends for UI development.In just few months’ time, I got to contribute in many projects; I am looking forward to an exciting journey here.Do take a look at the Techie blog I have written a blog on Full View : Gems is a design collective from RapidValue, a pioneer in Enterprise Mobility. A launchpad for designers who weave stories through pixels  vectors. 

Cakupan “UX memperhatikan 4 poin utama:Komponen pragmatis (praktis dan berguna bagi umum) dari UX, termasuk efektivitas, efisiensi, produktivitas, kemudahan dalam menggunakan, kemudahan untuk mempelajari, ketahanan, dan aspek pragmatis dari kepuasan pengguna.Komponen UX dimana fungsionalitas sistem memberikan kemampuan untuk menyelesaikan tujuan dari suatu pekerjaan/permainan.-The UX Book (Hartson-Pyla)pengguna adalah yang utama :)Rangkuman The UX Book dalam Bahasa Inonesia

To be clear, I’m not saying that the entire process of creating an engaging user experience is science. I am saying that we can use science to make better decisions, and learn from our mistakes.Usually, the business or stakeholder comes to user experience professionals with a question. Sometimes that question may be disguised as a demand.Armed with a question, it’s time to do background research. A blank piece of paper can be a daunting place to begin. It is easier to start when you have something to aim for. The A persona is an amalgamation of intended (or current) users of a product. This amalgamation is distilled in to an easily digestible template.Persona templates are a measuring stick for design decisions, the center of design discussion and a reference in reviews.Personas can be used across disciplines, such as marketing, design or strategy. Personas are a communication tool to allow “the user” to become less abstract.A persona can easily become the cornerstone of a project, and making one can be a great first step.Personas are a great place to start background research. Personas are a deliverable that involve several different activities that help a user experience professional better understand the intended users and the future product.Some activities include:By the time a persona is created, the user experience practitioner or team has a deep understanding of the product’s users. Empathy is transferred. Through the activities of creating a persona, UX professionals hear and see the stories from the trenches.In addition to all of these activities, personas are a stepping stone to more discovery. Armed with personas, a team can begin to construct an optimal customer experience.No persona will be the same as another, just like the humans the product will serve. There is no “perfect” persona, so don’t be intimidated to get started.Creating a persona can be a full-scale project or a skunkworks enterprise by someone trying to facilitate change in their organization.Persona creation follows three basic steps.Information can come from anywhere. Start by searching for existing information, including:After gathering as much background information as possible, start Broad reasearch like surveys and focus groups allow researchers to get a sense of typical and extreme users. Surveys are great for getting quantitative results. From survey data, a researcher can pull out the median user and the outliers.Median users and outliers are a great place to find participants for user interviews, field observation or diary studies.Even a small amount of research can elicit large amounts of data. Patterns can be big or small. Make note of anything that jumps out. For example:Nothing is incosequential at this point. Find the similarities.Creating a template can be the most difficult part of the process. It is another blank page that needs to be filled. There are several The template can vary, depending on the project, scope and needs of the user. Some baseline information should be included, though:The amount of time and resources allotted to persona development can very wildly. However, this process can be used regardless of scope. Time and resources merely determine the depth of the research.In any case, the end product will A husband, father and tinkering internet junkie. I enjoy a good book, a new challenge, and solving problems.Thoughts from the agency folk 

A few months ago I was working for Cool! But, of course, I still needed batteries for the office so I hurriedly ordered another 12 AA batteries. A little while later I received the following email in my inbox:“What the heck?!” I thought to myself. Either something very strange was going on at Amazon (which I doubted), or I hadn’t been paying close enough attention to what I was ordering. Take a moment to look at the AmazonBasics AA batteries product page, and see if you can spot what kept tripping me up:The quantity selector for batteries controls two data dimensions: both quantity and battery type. When I was looking at this, my attention was only drawn to “4 8 12.Since I hadn’t suspected that the quantity selector would also affect battery type, I continually selected 12.Ben Burton is Pittsburgh-based software engineer and UX enthusiast at CoreSpring.

I set out to write this note not with the intention to criticize Google but to make a list of things that can be done with Google’s search to improve the experience of the platform and productivity of the people who use it.A single text input with a search button is a brilliant idea .Since most people are serious about searching and finding relevant  accurate results fast this method doesn’t help much.The real estate of the front page of google is used up only 20 pc, 10 pc by search module and other 10 percent by links to other google products.A single text input with a single search button is a good method but only one of the methods that could be there .It does not necessarily help you reach the most accurate and relevant link fast .Now I wanted to search articles written by bloggers about koregaon park.The dilemma starts.What keywords do I choose?Phew!not again.Its a long exercise to reach to the right result. There is all probability that I won’t find exactly what I want though it might be out there on the 256th of 4568th page!I have this feeling everytime before I search.About 1,920,000 results (0.16 seconds)1,920,000 results.That’s information overload. No sorry ,that’s information explosion. Thats also called irony.Sorry , It only overwhelms the user and shows that the list of google’s results is not filtered and accurate and on top of it ,it is really really big to sort through.The simplicity ( or the lack of it ) of google’s first page is replaced by information overload with a rigid html page list of millions of links and the complex task of choosing and rechoosing keywords and arriving at the right result which might be on the 30th page.In reality for just one single query siphoning through these many results is a daunting task and might take few years to just go through. Just seeing 1,920,000 results is overwhelming.And only bravest of us dare to go beyond the 10th page or 100 queries.The ones who go to the 500th page should get an award in bravery in search.This braveheart atleast wants google to give him a simplified way of navigating pages and not just a GOOOOOOOOOOGLE with a next button.To reach the 300th page he will have to click the next button 30 times!Going back to the 55th page will be a same ordeal.What a grand waste of time.Billions of precious people minutes are wasted everyday siphoning through google’s search results.Wonder why doesn’t google come out of the caves  focus on the user experience of its flagship product google.com.A. R. Bhatwww.intesome.comIntesome is acronym for Internet, Technology , Software  Media.Less,Simple,Easy,Good.

Here’s the situation you’ve gotten lots of feedback on your product and a few users recommend adding a particular feature. You’re then pushed to create that feature because Personally, this happens to me all time. For all products, we set up many feedback channels and get tons of recommendations without any situational context. Being pushed to create solutions for unknown problems is hard and tricky because not all user ideas are equal.So how can you validate that an idea has merit and should be pursued?Accurately defining the problem and setting the context gives you enough detail to be able to further validate the feedback.There may be a natural behavior occurring that could be the model for a solution. It’s also good to know how the addition of a solution would affect the current user flow.Also, if possible, test in development before you push to production. Even the best prototype can’t simulate everything and things usually change (even if just a little) in the actual product.ux designer focused on enterprise-level applications.

Airbnb: rent out lodging platform, known as the biggest two “sharing economy” products with Uber together. Users can rent entire place, private room or shared room around the world. Also you can apply to become a host.Below is my second guest role recently in foreign countries making user experience after using the product map.— Arrive abroad —6. Before check in7. During stay— Arrive inland —8. After travelAirbnb’s advantage is high-quality lodging, which is the key point to provide a good experience compared with similar products and the entire time during use. However, due to a complete experience proess of Airbnb longer, there are a few events possibly to affect the experience:The first two to keep the hosts’ equity is understandable, if these become more obvious, it may be able to reduce to happen.In addition to the attractive lodging, Airbnb have not additional experience plus points during travel, and appear in the late not by much. Even if it is only a rent out lodging platform, to help guests improve experience is good for users’ impression, sush as provided weather, traffic, network for foreign travelers before traveling and so on. Airbnb can use its own resources in combination to user experience process.This article belongs to week 11, Click Focusing on interaction and experience design · EthonLau.comMake a redesign or concept design every week. Chinese version: 

Games have taken the app industry by storm! Gaming is the number one usage of mobile phones and the most popular app category across all devices and demographics. Mobile phone users all over the world spend at least Taking advantage of the boom in the gaming industry, game developers everywhere are creating amazing games! They are investing huge amounts of time and effort into promoting their games and creating buzz around them. Regardless of the budget, all game developers want to make their mobile game a success. Whether it commands a small cult following or it’s the next ‘Temple Run’ or ‘Angry Birds’, promotion campaigns begin weeks before the release date of a game. Many innovative marketing techniques are used to push their game to the forefront and some of the games even taste a bit of that sweet success. But alas, they wish it lasted longer!A common mistake most developers make is that they do not focus on One rule that all developers must understand and remember is that game players have a very short attention span and can be absolutely ruthless. They do not care whether you took days, weeks or even months to code your game. If they like it they play it or else they just remove it from their phones.Retention is the greatest challenge faced by game developers! To retain your players, your game should pack a punch! It should be fun to play, easy to manoeuvre and be visually appealing!Let’s take a look at few tricks and tips you can utilise to improve game retention:-They say that the first impression is the last one and that holds true for games too! Packaging is as important as having a fun game concept. The first thing a potential game player will look at is your game icon and the provided screenshots. Only if they are visually appealing to the player, he will bother to install your game. Once your game is installed the player will base his affinity to the game on the graphics, the character(s) you have chosen and the animations. A catchy background score and interesting sound effects add to the overall user experience. Be careful of how you place your ads (if showing ads), they must not hamper the game play or be shown too often. Maximum developers struggle with this – in an attempt to make the quick buck, they miss out on what could be much more. All in all, an app that is well-designed keeping in mind the user and looking to enhance user experience makes a great first impression.Incentives appeal to basic human nature, nurturing a sense of achievement. Gamers in general are competitive in nature and are always trying to emerge winners in any game they play. If you give a player a task or a mission to accomplish, it creates an excitement and a competitive spirit. More missions translate into increased user engagement and higher retention levels. Games like ‘Subway Surfer’, ‘Candy Crush Saga’ and ‘Hill Climb Racing’ are excellent examples of using this technique.Customising your game for your players, works as a great retention strategy. Depending on your game you can offer various kinds of customization options. Simple customisation might allow players to change the colour of the car they are playing with, or change the character they want to play as. Character customisation might include customising the clothes of the character and even choosing some basic characteristics like skin colour and hair styles etc. Environment customisation might provide players with the option to change the background or the general hue of game. These kind of customisation features are good for in-app purchases and can get your users hooked to your game. Subway Surfer, again, is a perfect example of game customisation.Tournaments, competitions and matches are part of our everyday life! Players love competing for simple rewards like points or game currency. Imagine how much your game will be played and replayed if you could offer actual cash prizes, gift coupons and vouchers to the winners of your games?Being avid gamers ourselves, we, after a lot of research and understanding have developed a cool mobile gaming platform that enables a rich user experience, making mobile games more fun for players. Appprix facilitates an exciting environment where your users can compete against friends and rivals in exhilarating, action-packed tournaments to win real rewards and money by playing your favourite mobile games! All you have to do is People in general have a low retention and recall capacity. They download many games onto their phone, play for a bit and then forget! You need to constantly remind them of your fun game that’s just sitting in their phone so that it doesn’t become just another icon on their mobile. You can use well designed, attractive push notifications which give enticing messages offering a reason to the players to open your game and play it. Although you must use this strategy judiciously — do not spam players with more than 3 push notifications per week. If it becomes intrusive and irritating, it won’t take them more than 2 seconds to get rid of your game.There’s always a thin line between which side to err upon – product or marketing – it’s very important to not lose perspective during either of the two activities as they both complement each other. You may have heard many a times before that the product comes first, way before marketing. Good marketing may be able to give you that initial push, but it’ll never take you far enough if your game isn’t of high quality or is not engaging enough.One of its kind, discovery platform for mobile games. Host tournaments, reward winners with real gifts or cash, gain more installs, happier users and much more.

We’re in the middle of a digital renaissance that has software eating the world. Like the industrial revolution, the digital revolution might see us eventually becoming obsolete, but that’s okay because that’s what progress looks like. To stay relevant, we need to place the Experience First.The modern architect has her roots in ancient and medieval history. They originated as artisans; master craftsmen such as stone masons and carpenters. In ancient times, there was no clear separation between the role of the architect and the engineer — they were seen as one and the same.In some ways, the architects of the digital world are similar to those of the physical. There are many parallels between the two, although it’s important to be aware of leaky abstractions, and that they are only We’re currently living in an age of digital renaissance. I believe it’s partly a symptom of how efficient manufacturing has become, that we’re experiencing wide scale In my In other words, it’s obvious that we place value on things that fulfill both form and function. The popularity of beautiful user experiences, both online and offline, are the expression of a digital renaissance that is only going to continue growing.Unlike classical portrait painters, bowling alley pinsetters and other jobs that have become redundant, the digital creator seems to be relatively safe.With the rise of website builders like The beauty of the web is that once an asset has been made, it effectively costs nothing to clone. A designer with a copy of Sketch or Photoshop can very quickly design a ‘theme’, have it converted into HTML/CSS by a “PSD to HTML” service (as they’re commonly known), and then sell it on one of these site builders. You could very easily get a beautiful looking website setup and live on the web on Squarespace for less than $10 a month.One thing I’ve learned from my time in Business School, is that humans If creating a website or app is commoditized, so be it. After all, who’s going to design and build the website builder? The fact is, designing a beautiful experience across different mediums will never be automated, not until we have the technology to build incredibly intelligent Sentient AIs. But by then, we’d all Because it’s easier than ever to build a website or app, the experience matters more than ever as the way to differentiate your product or service from the average. When you look to hire a developer or consultancy today, I think it’s important that you seek out the ones that have honed the balance between design and engineering, and have spent time thinking about designing truly delightful online (and offline) experiences.I’ve had a very diverse and varied experience with the web — I went to design school, did a finance degree, and started a This post originally appears on Alpaca expert, developer 

Tech Musings : Setting up Skype for my father - Poor User Experience by MicrosoftSetting up Skype on new Dell Inspiron for my fatherLearner Dad|Passionate about Mobile devices  Internet| Via 

Entrepreneurs are now going away from developing a mobile-friendly versions of their websites to developing apps which indeed add to their bottom line — but doing it well is easier said than done and a big part of why an app does or doesn’t take off is its usability, plain and simple.Below are the key pointers some of which can be hashed out early in the development phase, and a few tips on details to polish just before release.Your users’ motivations counts more than your own. You need to perceive the motivations of your users at a very deep level and plan triggers in their way subsequently. If you live this concept, you have a substantial foundation to do user experience well. If you don’t, then your conversion endeavour and growth tactic experiments are likely just a crapshoot.Some of the hottest app designs are admired for their usability when the customer is not literally online. Many Apps work seamlessly even when the user is not associated to WiFi or another signal. This is a design practice that entrepreneurs and their development teams should think about as they architecture their apps. Brainstorm ahead about how the app works in the offline mode.Even though almost half of the cosmos now own smartphones, that doesn’t automatically mean that they’re adept at using them. For that reason, the mobile app should be so simple that even a rookie mobile user can navigate it efficiently.Once you have a rough design ready, take the most non-technical friend or family member you have and watch them work the app. Is it intuitive? Are there big, easy-to-read buttons? Do you write in tech-speak? Take extensive notes, and pay attention to the places where they get stuck — new users will drop off quickly if you don’t make your design intuitive and easy-to-use.Android owners use their device differently than iPhone owners. Make sure your design principals match the operating system you are designing for. One size doesn’t fit all.Using a grid in your design is helpful in that it keeps everything steady as you move from page to page throughout your app. Grids are an critical design concept that enable designers to maintain consistency, create visual connections and keep the design unified across the app.Every day users approach apps across multiple devices and platforms — desktop, Web, smartphone and tablet — often covering all platforms in one day. Entrepreneurs need to make sure their app is accessible, functional and attractive across as many devices and platforms as possible.With any mobile app or mobile website, the sole concern should be, “Am I making the end user’s life more convenient?” Human-centered design, a common process in the development of physical products, is often left out of the digital space. Don’t design from a cubicle. Design with your end user by seeking input at every step of the way and putting yourself in their shoes.The key to designing an incredible app that delivers a rich user experience is to create a design for your app that emulates the real life, subject or category that your app represents. For instance, if you’re developing a productivity app, study how people are behaving using physical products, and design an app that compliment the usability and experience.The colossal design mistake app developers make is trying to fit too many features onto one small screen. Your app should have ONE primary purpose. Be crystal clear in your mind about what that is, and then hit your user over the head with it. Don’t present the user with options and hope she’ll pick the right one. Instead, guide her through the exactly ONE experience you want her to have.Now that you have understood, what the users would love to see in your Mobile App. Try making a note of these points when you are down with your development team and trying to brainstorm on what to and what not to. This piece of information will help you decide and understand what your viewers precisely need to see in the application.Vajrakaya Technologies is the leading provider of information technology, consulting and branding solutions, dedicated to help every business

In current business environment, every company on the Internet should have a comprehensive mobile web strategy. A global technology company, analyzed data from over 200 million visitors to distinct ecommerce sites, they discovered that 27 percent of site visits came from those shopping on smartphones and tablets. And in specific cases, such as in Brazil, almost half of eCommerce traffic came from mobile devices.These numbers all point to one thing: mobile site optimization should be a priority for businesses of all types. So how can you improve mobile user experience? The following strategies can help you do just that.You understand that mobile devices are small. The issue with this is that you likely have a lot of information you want to share with your users. A smart way to do this is through progressive disclosure, which “shows users which actions they can take to discover the content they’re after.” You may be tempted to put all your information in one place, but resist the urge: it’s better for business if you allow users access just the content they require.Another way to host your content without overwhelming users is to deploy accordions. These drop-down menus, when used in the right context, are a smart tactic for showcasing your content.These assets allow you to showcase hero images and other essential content as soon as users accesses your site. The key here is to ensure it’s clear just how many items are in the carousel, as well as where they are.Though it seems like a minor detail, it’s crucial to recognize that your users have fingers of all sizes. At least 40px by 40px. It’s also recommended to have margins of at least 10px around touch targets.When it comes to designing icons, it’s critical to size them for both retina and non-retina devices. This enables them to be visually appealing without sacrificing space.Don’t just develop viewpoints that match screen sizes of mobile devices — use the browser display size as your guide. It’s decisive to be aware of usable screen size for both portrait and landscape orientation.The only time you should decrease your font size beyond that is for “very precise label forms.”To ensure that your website/ app is optimized for ideal user experience, you need a team of mobile application developer with the expertise to meet your specific needs.Vajrakaya Technologies is the leading provider of information technology, consulting and branding solutions, dedicated to help every business

Three months ago, Martin, Jing and I began working on a project —to build an app that records and stores your travel itineraries. Right from the start, we stressed on a user-centric approach in the app development process. We always put ourselves in the shoes of the user, picturing ‘the problem’ they face, which was our approach to solving ‘the problem’.We believe that by solving a problem we face, we will solve the problems of many potential users. Although this may work, it was problematic in being a top-down approach. Who exactly are our target audience? Do they face the same problem, and is it a pain to them? Therein lies the need for user research.User research is a bottom-up approach that seeks to understand the precise needs of a user. Sure, usability tests when the app is ready will help us better understand and tailor to our users, but what I am raising here is the importance of research before we even get to building our app. What can you get out of it?The findings will give a clue as to whether it is a problem worth solving. More importantly, it will help shape the structure of the app, and hence it should precede app building.We only realised this on hindsight, but we may not have done it differently (hindsight bias at work). It was a top-down approach where we decided how the app should work, albeit with some informal research from talking to friends. Some qualitative and no quantitative data guided our progress thus far. To share with you briefly on what this app is about…

Strava faces a unique issue from a social follower perspective because of the nature of the activities that are the content of the product. Unlike most follower based platforms, the event that is the content is entirely separate from the creation of the event on the platform. Let me explain.On Twitter, if I wanted to produce content, the act of creating that content is the event itself. I type something and click Tweet and the content is published. The creation of the content and the publishing of the content is separated only by seconds.Strava, on the other hand, has a unique problem from a social network perspective in that the activity or event is completely separate from the publishing of the event. An athlete may run in the morning, but may not upload that event until later in the day, or perhaps even days later. The barrier to entry to publishing content is very high on Strava and often involves using cumbersome software and special cables. Technology is improving in this area, but we are a long way off from complete adoption of immediate uploading devices.Identify a better approach to displaying uploaded activities so athletes do not miss activities from people they follow.Strava currently displays the activity feed in reverse chronological order based on the actual time of the activity.What should be noted is this is an absolute time reference and not adjusted for time zones. For example, below you still see three events that occurred in absolute chronological order, despite one time seeming to be out of place due to time zone differences. The time shown is local time, despite the listing order being in absolute time.Strava has made uploading activities from their mobile app a seamless and user friendly process. However, many Strava users upload their activities using devices that are not mobile phones. For an athlete to upload data to Strava from another device, they usually sync their watch or cycling computer to another service through separate software that links with Strava. Although the uploading process from watch or cycling computer to outside services has improved substantially over the years due to bluetooth technology and many services offering data integration, it still requires an extra, often painful step.Because the uploading process from a dedicated device is often time difficult, athletes do not always upload immediately after an activity. Struggling to find time to eat and get to work, uploading activities to Strava usually falls on the priority list. Not only do athletes not just upload data much later than the activity itself, but they often all at once upload several activities spanning the course of days or weeks.Until the market is 100% saturated with automatic bluetooth synchronization, there will always be a gap between activity time and upload time. Strava shouldn’t invest effort in trying to decrease that period to create a more cohesive timeline, but instead display the timeline in a different fashion. Reverse chronological order is the way most social networks sort their content and for Strava, that makes sense to an extent. Reverse chronological order should stay, but the event of publication should be the upload event and not the specific activity.Because the number of upload sessions will always be less than total activities, I argue Strava could improve its timeline by displaying the upload activity as the publication point in reverse chronological order. One upload event of four events would like this on the timeline of athletes that are following me.Even though all of these events were in the same day, aggregating specific events in one upload publication would encourage followers to investigate all new activities posted. A common issue is the posting of an activity a few days after the fact, and it is never viewed by followers because it is buried by more recent events of the people they follow.There are instances of athletes uploading a month’s worth of activities at one time, and if the last event was not within the day, their activities are never seen in the activity feed. Making the upload event the activity of publication would alert users that multiple activities were posted and would encourage them engage with the athlete’s other activities.From a user experience perspective, I would show the most recent two or three activities per upload event with a link to see the rest of the activities. For most athletes that upload regularly, most uploads will show just one event and the view of their activities would look similar. However, for athletes that upload on a more irregular basis, this would allow followers to engage with all activities within a given upload.Even if this were not the default or only way to view your activity feed, there would be tremendous value added to the product if you had the option to sort your activity feed this way. People would engage with specific athletes more and fewer activities would go unnoticed.res severa verum gaudium

I do. But it’s neither intuitive nor obvious, which makes for the poor user experience.Strategic communications consultant, advisor and keynote speaker. Husband, dad, podcaster, proprietor of 

Over the past years we have seen various gamification mechanisms being included into every odd platform, product or service out there, and rightfully so — if properly set, they do wonders to increase adoption, boost continuous user engagement as well as alleviate learning curves. Nonetheless, we must be especially weary while employing these techniques because however tempting they are to use, there’s a very real possibility they may backfire, leading users away from the actual purpose of your product.Recently I had the opportunity to work on a scheduling / info-type web app for a tech-conference, that was held here in Sofia. The goal of the app was to make it easy for people to browse the conference agenda, speakers, session info, provide feedback and plan their conference day.In the process of building the app, a decision was made to introduce a rather heavy gamification layer: Users would have profiles, additional functionality were to be added and virtually anything from commenting on sessions  liking comments to rating and sharing on social media granted you points, leveled up your profile and earned you achievements. There was also a leaderboard, showing everyone’s points, as well as actual prizes for the top 3 contenders in the leaderboard at the end of the conference day: a PS4, an Air Drone and a Land Drone.As one would imagine, when people got wind of the goods in store if they were to make it to the top, heavy competition started to emerge. It turned out the most efficient way to accumulate points was exploiting the comments section under each conference session. You would earn substantial points for commenting, liking comments, and receiving likes on your comment.Having no real moderation apart from a basic spam filter, this effectively nuked the commenting mechanic:The points system was a massive underestimate in regards to people’s motivation to win, so what could have been streams of various conversation topics were now walls of shameless spam, with likes!Probably the worst backlash was that during the breaks and sessions, a lot of people were busy with their phones exploiting the app, hoping to win a prize, rather than talking to each other or enjoying the talks.Despite these mishaps the app did its job well, people logged in and received the information they desired. The major downside was that the rating and commenting sections were tainted by artificial interactions — not the end of the world, but surely a missed opportunity to make people’s time using the app better.Another nice silver-lining to everyone going crazy over points was that one of the ways you would earn them, was to enter a code that you got after buying something from the charity booth. This contributed to an overall higher donation count.Boosting engagement in this instance was not only disruptive, but unnecessary. User engagement would have manifested organically, since the application was the only source of information about the conference artifacts, people that wanted more information or a personal agenda, would have interacted with the app either way.Investing resources in implementing gamification in this case was a waste of time, all cons (insincere ratings, spam comments, meaningless interaction, unnecessary UI) and no pros.Back in 2009 Checking in however, was originally meant to be the foundation of Foursquare’s recommendation algorithm — when people mark where they’ve been, the app could tell where they might want to go. The problem was that people needed an initiative to feed the app their data, so making a game out of the whole thing was an excellent decision, which worked out very well. So well in fact, that it slowly but surely began to hijack the app’s original purpose, which according to the company credo, is to “..help you find places you’ll love, anywhere in the world.”People were using the app but not entirely as intended. Foursquare became the “Check-in” app rather than the “Finding cool places to go” app. This was not necessarily a bad thing as In 2014, the New York based company made a courageous move — it split its creation in two: Foursquare became an app focusing on the company’s initial goal, finding great places to visit, and created a brand new app called The story of Foursquare and Swarm tells the tale of just how much gamification can weigh in on your product. What started out as a fun way to get people to enter data (a means to an end), eventually consumed the entire app, started changing the way people were using it and even shifted the company’s focus.Summing up, you need to proceed with caution and think everything through when employing these techniques into the experience that you would like to deliver, because they just might work. Triggers like these can be much more than mere parlor tricks — they make us want to advance within the game so much so that the desire can potentially override even the most thought-out interaction flow, leading people away from their actual goal, just for the sake of points.In a nutshell, gamification should enhance user experience rather than to enfeeble it, it should be subatomic. Good gamification should be as good design is — invisible.I am Groot

The Universal Exhibition, in short Expo, is a platform for countries to showcase their best ideas, technology and innovations, while promoting culture, art and travel destinations. Above all, it’s an opportunity for nations to get on the world stage and turn the spotlight on their creativity and know-how, especially for those on the margin of global awareness.Visiting a well-conceived pavilion on the Expo is actually the closest you can get to visiting a country without physically going there; you get to interact with local people, taste local food, learn local customs, experience its culture and admire natural wonders while being thousands of kilometers away.If you take into account the estimated 20 million people expected to visit Milan’s Expo, it becomes clear how significant is this opportunity for any participating country. Yet, from my experience, just a few ones lived up to the opportunity. And were not those you would expect.This years’ big hits among Expo visitors were quite surprisingly Kazakhstan, United Arab Emirates, Azerbaijan and maybe less-surprisingly Japan. They all had one thing in common — they reinvented the old  tired ‘museum-exhibition-formula’, where visitors are presented with more or less captivating exhibits they consume and often not — and turned it into engaging, short, super immersive experiences, that grabbed the attention and just could not be ignored.By combining modern technology (3D cinema with moving chairs, 360 degrees projections, hologram videos, big touch screens, robotic arms) with compelling narratives, they delivered fascinating experiences that engaged three, sometimes even four senses at the same time.The effect? Think of it like this: it’s like reading a book versus watching a movie — yes, the book can give you more in-depth information, but the movie is much more captivating.This is not to say visitors do not care about learning new things. On the contrary, people are naturally curious, and love discovering new countries, different cultures and exotic tastes. But you could have the most interesting piece of information in the world, but still nobody would notice, if it was presented in a boring manner. So, the golden rule is —engage the visitor’s attention first, deliver content later.Countries went to great lengths to design fascinating, engaging experiences inside pavilions, but somehow forgot to design what happens ‘before’. You don’t need field research or customer journeys to realize the biggest visitors’ pain is the 3-, 4-, and in extreme cases even 7-hour-long waiting queues under a scorching mid-Summer Mediterranean sun.I’m sure this problem could be alleviated or even avoided altogether, if only organizers and individual exhibiting countries would combine service design methods with modern technology capabilities.As for now, some pavilions closed the queue after it extended for 3 hours, others put physical waiting times signs across the line and more or less everyone had the expected waiting times information easily available — which is all a good start, but much more could be done.One question remains: will the next Expo organizers (Kazakhstan in 2017 and Dubai in 2020) be smart enough to tackle this problem? I certainly hope so.Numerous brands were sponsoring this year’s Expo (in no particualr order: Intesa Sanpaolo, Samsung, Coca-Cola, Tim, Alitalia/Etihad, Illy, Technogym, Algida, Birra Moretti, etc.), yet no one drew nearly as much attention (and visitors) as Coop, the supermarket chain operating in Italy and Central Europe.Coop, in collaboration with Carlo Ratti Studio designed and built an advanced, very much working prototype of the supermarket of the future. Using an intuitive, seamless (“no UI”) user-interface, you could get all nutrition, country of origin and carbon footprint information for real, existing products on a sleek screen, just by pointing to a vegetable with your finger or touching a bottle of wine. As a proof the future might already be here, all products on display were also for sale.It’s interesting how quickly we adapt to modern technology. Basically, we arrived to the point where we expect a screen to be interactive rather than not. As interaction becomes ubiquitous, we expect to have control over our experience — and are quickly disappointed, if we are not.This is why we should have in mind to design interactive and non-interactive moments in a way that users will intuitively know what to expect.Last, but not least a special mention for Expo Milan organisers, who in a spirit of sustainability and superb user experience placed free water dispensers all across the 1,1 million square feet of the exhibiton area.Another proof how one solution can solve multiple problems, from reducing waste of plastic bottles to providing hydration to visitors and ensure a better experience.Runs on a mix of sailing, branding  service design.

최근 모바일 앱이나 모바일 웹, 웹사이트에서는 화면 요소의 애니메이션이나 트랜지션 효과(*이하 UI 애니메이션)들이 많아지고 있습니다.메뉴를 불러오는 것에서부터 시작해서, 페이지를 전환할 때, 혹은 토글버튼 같은 디테일한 부분에도 효과들이 들어가죠. pxd story에서 소개한 적이 있는 pull-down refresh는 그 대표적인 사례라고 할 수 있습니다. 이를 통해 UI 애니메이션은 시각적인 즐거움을 넘어서 기능을 올바르게 표현해줄 수 있는 수단이라는 것을 생각해볼 수 있습니다. 그리고 이런 UI 애니메이션들도 패턴화 되어가고 있습니다.요즘 Dribbble에서는 이런 UI 애니메이션을 보여주는 GIF Animation이 유행인 것 같습니다. 이제 ‘스큐어모피즘’을 지나 ‘플랫 디자인’과 ‘GIF Animation’으로 드리블을 하고 있나봅니다. 저는 이런 작업들을 보는걸 좋아하는데요, Dribbble에 올라오는 작업들은 눈이 즐겁고, 영감을 듬뿍 줍니다. 스큐어모피즘이 유행했을 때도 그랬고, 플랫 디자인이나 UI 애니메이션들을 마음 껏 볼 수 있는 요즘도 그렇고요.사실 Windows나 OSX를 사용할 때는 UI 애니메이션이 별로 중요하게 느껴지지 않았습니다. 그건 아마도 WIMP기반의 화면은 여러 창이 충분히 복잡하고, 여러 계층구조가 한 창에 표시되기 때문에 움직이는 효과를 최소화 하지 않았을까 합니다. 트랜지션이 일어날 일도 별로 없고요. 아, 그래픽 처리 능력의 변화도 있겠군요.대신 스마트폰이나 타블렛에서는 상황이 많이 달라졌습니다. 스마트폰에서는 창 대신 하나의 앱이 화면 전체를 사용하고, 가상 포인터 대신 실제 손가락을 화면에 터치하는 방식으로 사용합니다.하나의 앱이 화면 전체를 사용하지만, 그나마도 작은 크기의 화면이기 때문에 많은 정보들이 숨겨져 있게 되었습니다. 그래서 필요할 때만 표시해줘야 하는데, 단순히 화면이 변경되는 것을 넘어 트랜지션 효과를 통해 실제 화면 밖에 숨겨진, 가상의 영역을 인식시켜 줄 필요도 생겼습니다. 이런 효과가 페이지의 맥락과 계층을 쉽게 인지하고 학습 할 수 있도록 만들어 줄 테니까요. 그리고 손가락을 터치하는 것은 WIMP의 가상 포인터와 달리 실제의 환경에 가깝습니다. 이런 경우 손가락으로 행동하는 것에 맞춰 인터페이스의 인터랙션도 실제에 가깝게 반응해야 더 친숙하게 느껴질겁니다. 물론! 과하지 않아야 하겠죠.이런 흐름에 맞춰, 모바일 앱은 물론이고 데스크탑 OS에서도 UI 요소와 화면 전환 간에 화려함이나 동적인 화면 요소가 많아지고 있습니다. 웹도 마찬가지이죠.웹에서는 이런 UI 애니메이션들이 점점 다양하게 접목되고 있습니다. 플랫 디자인도 한 몫 하고 있지만, 그것과 같은 파도의 흐름을 타고 있는 HTML5, CSS, 자바스크립트를 통해 개발자는 손쉽게 UI 애니메이션을 구현하는 소스와 결과물을 만들어 낼 수 있게 되었습니다. 디자이너는 공개된 소스를 수정하여 손쉽게 디자인을 구현해 볼 수 있는 도구와 창구를 얻게 되었죠. 혹은 서로 반대의 경우도 가능하겠습니다.그래픽 디자인에 Dribbble이 있다면, 프로그래밍에는 GitHub가, 그리고 그 중간 격인 CODEPEN, CSSDeck등의 웹사이트 들도 있습니다. 그리고 요즘에는 여러 웹 UI 컴포넌트들의 애니메이션 효과나 페이지 트랜지션의 패턴 사이트들도 생겨서 훨씬 더 쉽게 참고를 하거나 응용할 수 있게 되었습니다. 웹은 이전에도 그랬지만 인터랙션 디자이너가 코딩과 디자인을 넘나들며 흥미롭게 일할 수 있는 훨씬 좋은 터가 마련되었습니다 :-)UI 패턴 라이브러리처럼 트랜지션/애니메이션 패턴의 예제를 보여주는 사이트들도 많이 있습니다.*참고 사이트하지만 여기서부터는 고민이 되는 부분입니다. pxd 내에서도 문제인식이 있었는데, 현재 프로젝트의 UI 설계 문서는 화면 페이지 단위로 Workflow를 작성하기 때문에 이런 UI 애니메이션을 적절하게 문서화 할 수 있는 수단이 별로 없습니다. 최근 보편적으로 쓰이는 몇 가지만 글자로 표현 될 뿐이죠. 그리고 이런 UI 애니메이션은 누가 중심 역할을 해야 할까요? UI/UX 디자이너 일까요? 그래픽 디자이너일까요? 아니면 개발자일까요. 이런 문제는 프로젝트에서 역할이 점점 세분화 되고, 부서가 나뉘고 분야에 따라 회사가 나뉘며 점점 벌어지고 있는 부분인 것 같습니다. 이전에 프로젝트를 할 때 디자인 컨셉에서 페이지간 전환이 중요한 역할을 한 적이 있었는데요, 그 때에는 웹으로 간략히 프로토타이핑을 하여, 페이지 트랜지션을 어떻게 할까 의사결정을 했었습니다. wipe를 할지, slide를 할지 부터 시작하여 duration이나 ease는 어느 정도로 할지 등을 중요하게 논의한 적도 있었습니다.이제 이런 UI 애니메이션은 앱이나 웹을 구현할 때 배제할 수 없는 중요한 부분이 되었습니다. 그리고 프로젝트에서 이런 부분을 어떻게 처리할지 역할에 대한 고민이 필요할 것 같습니다. 이런 내용을 문서화 할 수 있는 방식이나, UI 애니메이션에 대한 패턴화도 적극적으로 진행되어야 하지 않을까요?UX Designer, Industral Designer, Photograph, HandcraftDaily Experience, or UX

It’s funny how you care about providing a great user experience and you’re only considering iphone users. Regardless, users have become durable when it comes to filling out forms on their mobile device. Not only that, people are use to using email as their log in method. What would you rather give, one of your multiple email accounts or your personal phone number?It would be insane for a startup to abandon their signup form where they capture important information. Startups RELY on these forms to gain leads and make sales. Sure, maybe you don’t need their name… but what affordable tools are there to mass communicate with the phone number they used to sign in? Emails is the cheapest and easiest form of communicating with users for a startup.Anyways, good luck with your idea.You guys ever hear of this internet thing?

We are always testing our designs with users. Most of the time we run individual sessions, we find that a good old fashioned chat is still the best way to understand our user’s behaviour.We use At the start of any user testing session I always explain the importance of ‘thinking out loud’ to the participant and how their thoughts will allow us to discover what they really think about the design. For some, this can seem like a strange request as its not something they are used to doing.The moments when participants are free and feel comfortable enough to let their mind wander a little is when you hear the most precious insight. This is where a good facilitator (the person running the session) comes into their own. Ultimately you only have a finite amount of time to glean the most you can from a participant, so if you let them waffle or go wildly off topic, your session will quickly lose focus. However, you don’t want to shut users down just before they are about to say something valuable. It’s a balancing act. In addition, we have the added pressure of maintaining a narrative that is of interest to the stakeholders, listening in the adjacent room.But what’s trickier than keeping a chatterbox on topic? Ensuring a shy or reserved person opens up. It’s easy to understand some people’s reluctance to come out of their shell, after all, the surroundings are unfamiliar, they are being recorded and they are meeting you for the first time.So, to ensure participants feel as comfortable as possible, and ultimately trust you with their thoughts and behaviours, we have created a list of seven techniques you can use to get the most out of your user testing participants:When someone arrives to take part in user testing, imagine that you are a concierge at a swanky hotel. Open the door for them and greet them with a big smile. Use their name when you say hello and tell them yours, if someone says ‘Sorry, I didn’t catch your name’ then you’ve already failed. As they are walking to the testing room, engage them in a quick conversation, ‘how was your journey here this morning?’ And even if you are not really interested make sure you sound like you are. This will make people feel happier and more trusting.Ok so this one may sound a bit creepy, but try to retain the things the participants say early on in the session and then use them in conversations later on. User testing normally starts with a few warm up questions about the user. Remember as many of the answers to these as possible:• What do you do for a living?From the answers to these questions you will start to build up a picture of the user. Now when you’re mid-way through user testing, weave their life back into your conversation. ‘So is this something you see yourself doing on your commute into London?’ ‘Is this something you do with your wife and kids?’ Just a quick mention of something they told you 10 or 20 minutes ago will help to bring them out of their shell.Maintaining just the right amount of eye contact can make you appear more trustworthy, confident and friendly. But, I’ve found trying to force eye contact with someone who doesn’t really want it, can be unnerving. Adapt to the person you are interviewing, if they want to look you in the eye while you chat then do so back, but if not, allow them to do whatever comes naturally to them. Remember that the environment and situation is unfamiliar.It’s easier to recruit for user testing if you are offering a reward in return. When the user first arrives, get them to sign the consent form and as they do give them an envelope with their cash or voucher inside. Do this before participants start the user testing. This way, the participant realises it’s not a scam and they receive payment in advance of doing the work. Getting paid in advance for something is a great feeling and for some it will encourage more honest feedback.‘TONIGHT ON THE NEWS AT TEN. BONG! Steve is interrogating Julie about his latest app project BONG!’User testing should be a relaxed experience for the participant and the facilitator, after all, you’re not about to read the news headlines. Body language is an important aspect of making people feel relaxed, its a form of communication in itself. Sit on the same side of the table as the user, not on the opposite side. Don’t shuffle your papers on the table and try not to cross your arms.I’m sure every seasoned facilitator knows this one but thought I’d mention it anyway. At the start of the session ensure the participant knows that the product is being tested, not them. Put them at ease by explaining that they cannot do anything wrong today and they will not be judged on their actions.If you’re anything like me your voice occasionally adapts to the person you are speaking to. Try to speak in a way that the participant understands. Of course, if you are clearly not from Newcastle don’t suddenly start speaking with a Geordie accent! But, use the words they use and listen to the way they structure their sentences. By doing this, you will become Make people feel welcome, sound genuinely interested in what they have to say and don’t do anything that might intimidate them. Ensure you are an all-round friendly individual and you’ll be just fine. Remember, just because someone is shy doesn’t mean they won’t have something interesting to say.Steve works at User Experience Design Agency

History is testimony to the fact and so are the · Is it that users are curious to install the software or get a service as quickly as possible and see what underthehood is?· Is it the length of the agreement or complex wording for which one needs to hire a legal expert to understand it fully?· Is it the time constraints which follows a user all over his life?If you ask me? I would sincerely express that I had tried many times to read license agreements to understand them, but every attempt was a failure. I never found them intuitive, user friendly, interesting, easy to understand and what is highly shitty about them is time consuming and lengthy.But what is nightmare to us now, is definitely giving us window to dig deep into this puzzle and try to resolve this and make history.If you are reading/watching news daily like me then it is not hard to remember that latest happenings in the world regarding user privacy issues which had grabbed the attention of people around the world. From Facebook/Google/Microsoft to NSA/Snowden leaks, people are clear that their user privacy had been compromised and when same is being challenged in the courts. It had been found hardly any user had read the agreements before accepting.It is not the fault of the users who are not reading the license agreements and later found themselves in trap. It is the fault of BAD User Experience of license agreements.Every one of us know how much is being written, read, trained and widely acclaimed about User Experience. User Experience had resolved lots of complex puzzles and therefore giving more freedom, contextual approaches,user friendly and every thing which makes sense.I therefore request your great attention and patience to let us think about it and let us share the ideas, and work on it as a common goal. Our mind is the ocean of ideas, whether good or bad, whether small or big. Sometimes small idea acts as catalyst for a big idea and I am sure we lack any.So let us put our IDEAS forward!I m a designer, I design things, experiences, interactions as simple as I could. I believe simple is accommodative, adaptive, universal, intuitive and natural.

This debate has been around for a few years in our industry, but I felt it was important for me, as a ux designer, to share my thoughts.One morning I read a post that was titled “What made this article stand out from all the others I’ve read before is the way they describe how designers need to think about design decisions and how those decisions will unfold an experience — something I can agree on.I think we’ll be in trouble if we dismiss the idea of user experience design — at least for the next few years anyway.The term user experience design provides context to what the designer is trying to achieve and focused on: creating a better experience for the person using their design.Designers who facilitate user experience design are typically armed with specific tools and methods of design that allow them to uncover the things that will make a better experience. Some of which include user research, ethnographic research, card sorting, usability studies, journey mapping, etc.Put user experience design aside for a moment and look at interaction design — a well structured discipline that has existed for a long time that aspires to achieve the same result. (This makes things a bit blurry).Look at the diagram from the book, Far Now don’t get me wrong, I do think what the article above implies is great — the evolution of the web designer into a product designer as we no longer craft websites, but rather products that fit into the lives of the people using it.In an ideal world — one day — user experience design will inherently form part of the dna of all designers, developers and anyone else building products that people will use.So for now, I think user experience design should exist.I speak human. Helping man and machine get better acquainted through methods and principles of design. UX Designer @ Atlassian and aspiring mountain goat.

I really like this definition because, for me, it sums up User Experience Design nicely. There’s one part of the definition that sticks out to me and it’s, “…To design an elaborate experience requires a UXD to have a comprehensive (or at least competent) understanding of each part of a product’s lifecycle. You can’t just be good at research, nor can you only be focused on designing visually appealing UI’s. A true User Experience Designer is familiar with the complete lifecycle and understands that no one piece of the puzzle is greater than the other and that there is no “whole” without its parts.I’ve been referred to as what many people might negatively refer to as a “Jack of all trades”, but in my defense all the things that I do, I do really well and with intention. I learned everything up to this point because I chose to learn it, not because I had to or because someone said that I should. It’s simply because I love learning new things that relate to my personal and professional interests. So to say that it was “a conscious decision” to focus on multiple disciplines wouldn’t be a true statement, because it was a need that came naturally to me and is what’s kept me passionate and hungry over the years. Little did I know that I was slowly grooming myself for User Experience.Instead of “Jack of all trades” I think a more suitable metaphor would be “Mixed Martial Artist of all trades”. MMA is the perfect example of learning and using various disciplines successfully in one arena. Even before MMA, Bruce Lee seen the advantages of borrowing from various martial arts disciplines to create his own fighting system and philosophy in Jeet Kune Do. For me, User Experience Design has that same kind of mentality mixing research, analytics, visual and interaction design and development.To be honest, most UX professionals are rarely masters across all the disciplines that make up UX, even myself. I’m more well-versed in the product, interaction, visual design and prototyping aspect of UX. Others expertise may lie in the cognitive psychology and user research side of things, while another group may prefer usability testing and analytics.Regardless of your focus, the key to being a great UX Designer is remembering who this is all for. The user. By learning how they think, understanding their needs and how they behave helps you empathize with their goals. Having that singular goal will pull you out of your comfort zone to make do what it takes to help your users achieve those goals in terms of your product. Being that kind of advocate for the user helps create shared understanding amongst your team and keeps the roadmap for the project on path.Lead Experience Designer at Home Chef. Passionate about creating delightful web experiences. Often found in random Chicago coffee shops interwebing responsibly.

I recently became a dad. This opened up a new world for me. Fun and exciting times! In this new world there are a lot of small user experience issues you have to deal with on a daily basis. Most of them occur when you’re still half asleep.Being an User Experience Designer, I often think of simple solutions to these small early morning frustrations.Today I’d like to share my solution to the problem of buttoning down an onesie. It is actually quite simple.A common mistake I make is The most common onesies we have here in The Netherlands use a three snap fastener button system. Once you have the middle one in place the other two are easy! So my solution to this UX problem is Oh Snap! The prototype.One less thing you have to worry about. As this is my first medium post I’d love to hear your feedback. I think I might enjoy writing more.Rotterdam based freelance interaction  graphic designer. CKDT.nl, IM A DESIGNER \m/

My 4 year old daughter was just coloring a parrot on an iPad. “Daddy, this is for you!” Since she was in earshot but not actually getting my undivided attention (this only ever happened on two other occasions that I can remember), I told her to simply push the “Camera” button. After some nagging on her part, I finally go over to point to the camera “button” for her.I quickly see her difficulty. There is no expected camera button. Usually, a drawing program allows you to save an image to the camera roll by taking a “photo” of it. It’s actually not a bad metaphor. If I wanted to send someone a copy of my, still drying, acrylic on canvas Keith Haring imitation, I would do exactly the same, with my iPhone.Finally, after some searching (even though there were only four icons for performing any action) I see an image of a 3.5 floppy disk. What the f*… I mean, what fantasy! This is a children’s app! I know this because of the bubbly, oversized, childish controls. And the parrot is a dead giveaway.Why, in 2015, does an app developer use a 20 year old dead metaphor for a kids app? If it is due to laziness they could have simply copied the design from a myriad of other apps (as the entire app idea itself is a copy in the first place). I conclude the laziness must be a result of simply not caring.Then, I discover the true reason. Incredibly, the usability limitation is by design! It’s a parental control! The developer actually intended for parents (those who are actually old enough to have used floppy disks) to be interrupted while they were doing something important. Once you press on the floppy, you get a message that you did it wrong: you have to keep pressing on it for two seconds, All kidding aside, and more generally speaking, it isn’t just about this floppy disk. In 2010, when the App Store was still only rumbling, childrens apps were pretty usable. This is just my experience (or what I remember of it). Though quality and creativity of apps varied, once such an app was installed, it was usually childs play to use it. Nowadays, you have to download 100s of megabytes of data (via 3G!) for each game level, and a clicking on the big green “Continue” (etc.) will launch you into the App Store to purchase a key to open the door to the castle. Even as an adult it is difficult with these apps to avoid this discontinuity in game play, and there is no global setting that can fix this. (Yes, you can choose to prevent the ability to make app-store purchases, but this doesn’t affect the UI with respect to in-game purchases).This is not progress and we see similar problems in other areas, such as web browsing where there is apparently a complete disregard for the quality of the user experience. A short text article of a few Kb may be embedded literally in a traffic jam of 10s of megabytes of Javascript and advertisements, literally causing a gridlock by using up all the resources necessary for a satisfying browsing experience. (Not to mention that sometimes one “request” for an advertisement will block the rendering of the entire page until there is a response).In a way, the fact that things are getting harder to use can, in certain respects, be a blessing in disguise. The kids use the tablet or smartphone on fewer and fewer occasions because it is often such a frustrating experience, which means I can have them all to myself again to do some more armchair usability engineering.Creative Writer. Father. Generalist. I love marmite, cheese, and Africa. Hire me for your stories. Fiction or non-fiction, one word and up

As computing and content are more compact, designing such interface has to lie on how fast and accurate the user will need informations. Designers should be driven by “context interface design” to make sure that the content is displayed correctly. Of course, it’s not only about design but also about gestures and navigations. The way users will interact with a particular information is also crucial. To get detailed informations in every situations should be the same swipe, shake or tap. The OS need to be fluid and consistent to get the users quickly used to it.How about the hardware? Round or rectangle? I already thought of how the external aspect of a watch could be interactive and user friendly. So far, the discussions tend more to the OS but sadly not to the overall interaction abilities. If you look to a watch, different elements are part of the product: straps, dial edges, surface material (digital or solid). I am convinced that one single watch could be the best fit for several marketing target if the product itself could be digitally customisable.Experience Director 

I gave up my TV set sometime around 2008 and have been using on-demand services exclusively ever since. To me, the advantages of setting my own viewing schedule far outweigh the restrictions of watching telly on a laptop. But while a 12-inch screen seemed a fair compromise, it was only very recently that I began to consider the idea of watching TV on a 3.5-inch phone screen.Over the last year or two, I’ve noticed more and more people watching TV shows on their phones — at the bus stop, on the train, catching up on So how do TV on-demand mobile apps measure up? Is the user experience all that it could be? And which of them best delivers on the promise of TV anytime anywhere?The most popular terrestrial From the BBC, the iPlayer app will set the benchmark for the others to beat. The iPlayer app (version 3.3.0) is currently rated 2.5 out of 5 stars in the App Store. That’s down from an all-time rating of 3.5 following the decision to remove the radio content in favour of the stand-alone iPlayer Radio app.The ITV Player (version 3.2) is also rated 2.5 out of 5. Along with the BBC iPlayer, it offers live streaming as well as the catch-up service offered by Channels 4 and 5.The 4oD app (version 3.4) is rated 2 out of 5. 4oD include a large back catalogue of programmes in addition to their recent catch-up service. But in exchange for all that extra content, they are the only one of the four TV apps to require users to register.Lastly the Demand 5 app from Channel 5 is a likely underdog. Rated just 1.5 out of 5 (version 2.6.1), a lack of quality programming and low viewing figures means an uphill struggle to draw users.The homepage of the iPlayer app feels very spacious, even on the small screen of an iPhone. It shows a single hero programme above around 25 featured programmes in an easily browsable list. Along the top of the screen, a single tap takes the user to the most popular 16 programmes (no idea why they chose to show the top 16), or the option to browse the recent TV schedule by channel. The main menu options at the bottom of the screen include a link to the BBC radio content (no longer available through this app) and a Favourites page where the user can collect their favourite shows, thankfully without the need to log in.ITV seem to be keen to push modal messages to users as the app is loading, forcing the user to dismiss the message before they can continue. In the case shown, they tell users about live cricket not being available to view via the app — wonder what proportion of users care about live cricket.ITV also promote their premium service with an interstitial ad that the user must dismiss to proceed. It feels like the wrong time to ask users to upgrade — they haven’t even had a chance to see what’s on offer yet. I think ITV would have more success if they made the up-sell in the pre-roll before a programme is played, or even in the first commercial break during a programme.In contrast to the iPlayer, the ITV Player app feels immediately restrictive and short on space. Once the homepage has loaded, the natural tendency to scroll down is impeded as the page is only slightly longer than the screen height. Instead of vertical scrolling, each section of the page scrolls laterally, with only a single programme viewable on screen at a time. The ‘Most Watched’ and ‘Last Watched’ sections have indicators to show the number of programmes on the carousel but this has been omitted from the primary ‘Don’t Miss’ carousel at the top of the screen, leaving the user unsure of their position within the carousel.The 4oD homepage shows a carousel which auto-rotates through the five slides showing recommended shows. The use of the word ‘recommended’ might imply a level of personalisation but from what I could tell, the selection was generic featured shows rather than a selection based on my previous viewing or search behaviour.A further six ‘Recently added’ programmes are listed below — odd that they don’t show more programmes. Each programme entry shows a Channel 4 or More 4 logo to indicate the channel it was originally broadcast on, although it’s unclear to me why a TV on-demand viewer would care. Larger thumbnail images would be a better use of space.The Demand 5 homepage has a very clear and simple layout showing 16 ‘Featured’ programmes illustrated with much larger images and text than any of the other apps.Where the BBC iPlayer splits the navigation along the top and bottom of the screen, Demand 5 uses a single navigation area along the bottom of the screen which makes it clear where the user should direct their attention. The five icons expose the available functionality without hiding it within a menu like 4oD.The call to action “Search TV  Categories” is prominently displayed at the top of the iPlayer homepage. The flat styling of this button element means it could easily be mistaken for a text entry field. Tapping the button takes the user to the first screen shown below, which includes a text entry field presented in a very similar style to the previous button.The combination of keyword search and category browse is well executed and gives the user the option to avoid typing if they wish. Predictive search results appear very quickly as the user types, so likely the user will not need to type many letters before finding the programme they’re looking for. Predictive results are shown with an image which may help users to recognise their programme from the list without reading every entry, although truncating longer titles could cause problems.The inclusion of an episode count next to the chevron to the right of each entry is a useful touch. The third screenshot shows how the iPlayer presents previous searches to the user once they’ve built up some history.Browsing by category is also fast, with a good level of granularity of category within the taxonomy. It’s a shame that the episode count isn’t shown against each category though — I found it was easy to select subcategories containing no content which left me at a frustrating dead-end. I was also surprised that the search field didn’t persist once I had selected a category.Users initiate the search flow on ITV Player by tapping the magnifying glass icon on the homepage. The symbol is sufficiently well established to be understood by most users, although the proximity to the menu ‘burger’ icon might mean users hit the menu when they meant to hit search, particularly if the user is in landscape mode where the hit-areas are smaller.Having tapped the search icon the user is shown a blank page with active cursor in the search box. I like the simplicity of the page, which may help users focus on the task at hand, but the lack of any placeholder text within the text field seems a bit too sparse — iPlayer and Demand 5 use “Find a TV Programme…”, 4oD uses “Search”.The predictive search results lack the image and supplementary information shown by the iPlayer, but the results are clearly presented with large hit-areas for ease of selection.ITV Player doesn’t offer a browse-by-category function (surprising given that the functionality does exist on the web app) but it does include an A-Z list of all ~100 shows.The alphabetic list is presented in a similar fashion to users’ iPhone Contacts but the alphabetic sort has been set as discrete categories rather than a continuous list, meaning that a user looking for 4oD keep their search and browse functionality entirely separate. To initiate a search the user clicks the magnifying glass icon in the bottom right corner of the page. The search field appears with a transparent overlay above the previous page which I find to be a useful orientation signal.Like ITV Player, the predictive search results appear very quickly and are displayed very clearly.The inclusion of a ‘Cancel’ button and the white-on-grey ‘X’ icon did lead to some problems with overlapping functionality. The ‘Cancel’ button is intended to dismiss the search function altogether, while the ‘X’ icon is meant to delete the search text. However, I found that in some instances tapping ‘Cancel’ deleted the search text, which left no option to dismiss the search function and return to the homepage. The only way out was to select an option from the menu.The browse options on 4oD are located within the main menu. The browse-by-category feature is a little slow compared with the other apps, with a loading wheel appearing briefly after each selection. Like the ITV Player, the A-Z list is divided into discrete categories which is a minor nuisance. The inclusion of images alongside programme titles is good to see.Of the four TV apps, 4oD is the only one to offer truly curated content to promote their programmes. Called ‘Collections’, it’s a great way to surface programmes that the user may not know about or have otherwise considered. For example, the “Gadgets, Geeks and Gizmos Collection” offers “Inventive humour, brain boxes and clever contraptions” and includes series such as Demand 5 take a similar approach to the iPlayer, giving users the option to browse-by-category or search by keyword. As the user begins to type, the predictive search is a little quick to determine that there are “No Results”, but if the user perseveres then the results are shown. In fact, the Demand 5 results make the best use of space of any of the TV apps. The images extend right to the edge of the screen so they can take a larger area and the programme titles are allowed to wrap rather than being shown truncated like those on the iPlayer.The browse-by-category flow on Demand 5 is similarly clear and well laid out. A smaller choice of programme content means the categories are much broader than those used on the iPlayer, but I didn’t find any categories without content. The A-Z list of shows is arranged as a continuous list making it more usable than the ITV Player and 4oD executions.The search and browse experience on all four apps has been designed for use in portrait mode, which seems an odd decision given that all revert to landscape mode when playing a TV programme — why force the user to switch screen orientation between browsing and viewing? 4oD and Demand 5 haven’t designed any landscape browse experience at all.The iPlayer shows a full-screen carousel of programmes in landscape mode — pleasant enough to browse through but there’s no indication of how many shows are on the carousel and no option to search or refine by category.ITV Player’s landscape mode is quite confusing. The user picks a top level category from a carousel of options, then a second carousel of programmes appears in front of the first. The experience is rather disorientating though thankfully they have maintained the option to searchBrowsing through the user reviews in the App Store, there are some common themes that quickly emerge.Every one of the TV apps has users complaining of buggy performance, buffering, dropped connections, black screens etc etc. Judging by the reviews alone, the BBC iPlayer has the least problems in this area, but even iPlayer comes in for some criticism.My experience while testing was actually very good. I found all four apps were reliable and provided a decent viewing experience. But there are so many reviews reporting poor performance — they can’t all be wrong.All this great programming doesn’t come for free. The BBC iPlayer is funded through the licence fee but the other apps have to look to advertising to pay their way, and all three come in for heavy criticism.I took a look at a sample of programmes to see how much advertising was being shown in proportion to programme time on each of the three commercial apps.All three commercial apps showed a similar amount of advertising mid-roll, typically spread over three breaks during the course of the programme. But the real shock was the amount of pre-roll ads shown on Demand 5. Surely they must change that if they want to avoid losing more viewers.It’s genuinely difficult to believe that two of the four mobile TV apps do not support streaming via mobile network (3G or 4G). Demand 5 say they require a wifi connection “to ensure you are provided with the best viewing experience” and 4oD “to guarantee that you have the best viewing experience”. Judging by the feedback, users would be happier to have the option to decide for themselves.Watching TV on a phone is hard work compared with switching on the widescreen telly in the lounge. Google’s Chromecast or Apple’s AirPlay allow users to show content from their iPhone on their TV screen for more comfortable viewing.I haven’t been able to test this, but apparently only the iPlayer and ITV Player allow AirPlay and only the iPlayer works with Chromecast. It’s clear that demand for this kind of service is already significant and growing fast. 4oD allude to Of the four TV apps only BBC iPlayer and Demand 5 give the option of sub-titles. A larger, bolder font makes the BBC’s execution noticeably clearer to read.ITV and Channel 4 both provide sub-titles to viewers on their web apps so a strange decision not to include them on their mobile apps……And users of both services are making their feelings known…Power efficiency is vitally important for mobile apps and I was pleased to find that all four TV apps were pretty efficient. To test each app’s power use I charged my iPhone to 100% then streamed 60 minutes of programming over wifi, noting the remaining battery level at the end of the hour.Top performer was the iPlayer with an impressive 96% battery remaining. In joint second place were Demand 5 and 40D — both had 94% battery remaining. Lastly ITV Player showed 93% battery remaining. OK the test is a bit crude, but it’s reassuring to know that users shouldn’t need to choose between watching a show and staying connected.Towing the rear there isn’t a lot to choose between ITV and 4oD. ITV could easily improve on their browse experience and should look at making their app more energy efficient. 4oD need to confront the reality that their viewers expect to be able to push content from their phones onto their TV sets and for their app to work over 3G/4G.In second place, a surprise result for Demand 5. Yes, they need to look at quantity of ads they show and when they choose to show them. And there’s room for improved stability and connectivity. But Channel 5 have done a good job in making the browsing experience easy.Perhaps unsurprisingly, the iPlayer is a solid winner. With the possible exception of the search and browse experience, it trumps the others apps in every way. Not having to inflict advertising on its viewers is a huge advantage, but the BBC has capitalised on its pole position by delivering a connective and efficient app that meets users’ expectations.Work is digital marketing  e-commerce. Play is mountain bikes and snowboarding. DIY, chickens  allotment fall somewhere in-between.

By: Cameron LeyClear, intuitive navigation is critical for a good user experience. The main job of any global navigation system is to provide users with the ability to comprehend where they are in an app or site, where they can go, and how they can navigate elsewhere. In the past, designers and product managers used an “everything, everywhere” approach to accomplish these objectives. Active states, secondary navigation menus, and expansive “mega menus” were often used to position users in the site and expose all possible paths through the experience.However, people are relying less and less on these tools, and instead consumers are expected to interact with the content itself. The explosive growth of mobile apps and touch-first design languages have brought to the forefront contextually aware navigation systems: ones that change and adapt to where a user is in the experience, and that surface information that users will likely need at that point to succeed.Let’s take a look at one such example, Air BnB’s native iOS application. Air BnB’s use cases are rich — those looking for a place to stay are able to search for and discover new locations, browse individual listings, and view details for each listing. They can save and favorite listings for later, share their favourite locations with friends, communicate with hosts, and last but not least, book accommodations.When taken as a whole, these use cases look quite daunting. Searching for listings alone requires several features and modes. If not designed thoughtfully, features including browsing by list view or map view, comparing two or more properties, and filtering a listing by a broad range of criteria can feel cumbersome.Air BnB’s solution was to create a simple goal orientated menu, and to only surface relevant features when it makes sense for the user. This is done based on the where the user is in the experience. AirBnB relies less on a global menu to facilitate navigation, and instead invites users to define the task they want to accomplish. Following this, the experience is tailored to meet these user’s needs. The result is a smooth, smart experience that responds to the user’s presumed intent.My objective in this post is to explain how applying this same philosophy to conventional desktop experiences can make discovering content more natural. It can also make completing actions feel easier, and can better motivate users down a desirable path. Overall, these improvements will create a more intuitive and fluid user experience.Global navigation systems ground users throughout their experience. They provide a clear organizing scheme and allow users to align their mental model with the opinion of the system. Static global navigation puts the onus on the user to parse the whole system at once and to figure out where they sit in the architecture of the site or app. Only then can users reflect on their own needs and choose the best path forward.Compare this to The New York Times digital property, where the global navigation morphs several times to better support users depending on where they are in the experience. How the navigation is presented differs based on whether users are on the home page, a category page, or an article page, and even depending on whether the user is at the top of an article, or below the fold.The New York Times recognizes where a user is, and what they are doing, and reprioritizes the navigation to suggest next steps when in this context. Looking at the article page specifically, the header contains a list of related articles from the same section when at the top of the page. This makes sense, as they want users to visually browse the section. When a user scrolls below the fold it assumes they are engaged with the article and then it shifts focus to provide details on what it is they are reading to suggest they share it.Designing global navigation this way allows The New York Times to situate their users in the site architecture with less effort, and maintain focus on content. It does not distract users when they are reading an article, it “quiets down” and lets the reader enjoy the article in peace. By showing less, it affords an opportunity to suggest a series of next steps for users and keeps them engaged rather than forcing them to return to a 50,000 ft. view just to dive back into the weeds.The constraints of mobile devices have caused designers and product managers to find creative solutions to new design problems. As mobile design matures, there are many techniques and solutions that can be applied to the desktop. The mindful design of a global navigation system is one of them. Instead of showing “everything, everywhere”, time should be taken to better define how the system expects users to navigate content, and to develop states of a global navigation to best suit users depending on their context. The result is a better rapport between the system and the user, and an improved overall experience.Interested in working at GALE? We’re hiring. Check out our job openings A digital marketing agency fueled by creativity and technology and inspired to find solutions for your customers. Find us at 

I receive an email that tells me to show up to a course that I joined a day ago. Citing the fact that (Also — 80%?? Seems like Coursera is leaning towards the It takes me to this screen of death. (Which is proceeded by a loading pinwheel, implying that it is done loading). (A note for the curious: I have navigated to this page 5 times now, it is consistently empty).I navigate back to the course preview, and confirm that yes, my course is starting in 3 days. So maybe they didn’t need to guilt me into “showing up” yet.At this point, I casually (and foolishly) decide to browse for other courses. so I navigate to the home page, which brings me to clue #2.So I can view my accomplishments (why?), view my current classes, or view ads about Coursera. It feels distinctly self centered so far. Certainly the menu will have an option to search/browse courses?Black arrows highlight options that lead to the exact same place. Grey arrows highlight options that lead to If I click ‘Accomplishments’, it shows me a picture of my headshot (because I don’t have any accomplishments, I assume?). Just to brainstorm some alternatives here:I find that Since the menu was useless, I decide to leave the enrollments button selected, and scroll down hoping that it will lead me to the option to find more courses.Scrolling along, I finally find a section titled Except on closer examination, the only option is to explore courses By the way, before we move on to search, what does certificate I now feel like I’m navigating this site in a straight jacket. I can only view recommended courses, can’t search for anything.Does this mean Coursera devs are hard at work on a Saturday, removing the option to search for new courses? Or more likely, does it mean Anyways, let’s continue from where we were previously, and move onto “SEE ALL” and Clue #5.By the time I actually decided to post these user interactions, I’d gone through this stack of issues and more.I was curious if Coursera was again displaying search results for courses that were in the past with no future sessions, given that the top 20% of my screen was loudly proclaiming there were “no open sessions.” So I tried to view the individual courses and drill into their session dates.There is, unfortunately no way to navigate to the course. Or the university that hosts this course. Or the teachers of this course. Even though all of that content At this point, I’m worried about the Coursera technical team. Are they okay? Did something happen to them? I know that building technology is hard, and I can only imagine that managing a sustainable online university that allows you to take all the courses for free and doesn’t tell you why you’d want to pay for anything has got to be even harder. I get it. None of this is easy, and I’m not trying to kick Coursera while they are (clearly) down. Also, I appreciate the opportunity to consume Coursera’s content, on a variety of subjects.So at this point, I decide to quickly dip my toe into the iOS app, and get a quick taste. I mean maybe all the Coursera devs are okay, and they’ve just practically decided that maintaining the mobile website was not worth it? I can empathize with desperate prioritization tradeoffs.The app is a lot better! (phew).While not the most conclusive investigation, I’m slightly less worried about the Coursera technical team now. And as I take these courses that are coming up, I will get a lot more data and might post a follow up if warranted.I’d just like to close out this post with one last tidbit (it’s really small and nit picky. Sorry Coursera).(The present and the future are more intertwined than we think. hehe)Currently exploring. Previously a PM and VC

The quite important and also the hardest part of the job is that all of the structure of the contents of the project should be designed in regard to the content’s goal, target audience, frame, quantity, frequency and the quality, rather than foresight.Also, one of the factors that cause these difficulties is insufficient information provided by project owner. Because, most of the time the general perception is;Is it possible to destroy this perception? I don’t think so. But you can learn how to avoid this problem on your projects by reading this Works on UX

I have two passions. Crafting intuitive, simple and delightful user experiences and riding bikes. So what is the state of UX in cycling?Ecommerce sites such as But these three, from what I have seen, are the exception to the rule. Most retailers I’ve encounterd seem to align to the objectives of the business rather than the objectives of the user. The user story would be:So yes, anyone who sells cyclewear is in competition with each other. Those who win, don’t have obvious pain-points.Google may force the issue. They are set to “kick clunky websites into the digital age with the introduction of a ‘mobile friendly’ label showing browsers which links are best optimised for smartphones and tablets.”It’s not just design, it’s message that needs to be user-led. On the Probably my biggest problem is the lack of storytelling. The “Always be selling” mentality needs to be replaced with “Always be sharing”. If I care more about the retailer, I’m more likely to shop from them in the future.Brands tend to fair better. Sites like A recent conversation with a cycling team tells me that there’s not a lot of money in cycling to spend on perfecting cycle team websites. They’re finding it hard enough paying their teams, so marketing budgets are going to be super tight or non-existant.What cycling teams do ‘get’, is social media. They’re using the platforms their audience is on. Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Checkout What should their team website cover then? Links to social media, a mission, an explanation of their sponsors and a roster of riders with simple bios. Not really a site to interact with, but rather a ‘wiki’ for the team.I read an insightful piece on You need to know the brands you want to work with inside out. You’ve done well to focus on an industry that you know — you need to know more. The buying decisions of cycling sponsors, the constraints cycling brands contend with, even think of better ways to invoice for those services your giving.A good example of where this is done to great effect is Mike Cotty’s How do you get started? Maybe you need to support the riders, retailers and suppliers when they’re starting out, who don’t have much money, and enable them to grow, based on results of your efforts.For the big ecommerce sites — it’s not easy. Sophisticated ecommerce platforms are often a little behind modern standards and so you can’t easily just make the site responsive, but you should be able to A-B and Multivariate test pages.But taking a step back, what you should be doing is collecting user stories, creating personas, conducting user research and putting together a case for change. Over time, the retailer may start to understand the importance of meeting user needs and hopefully, put them at the centre of everything they do. Get on this now, before the smaller ecommerce sites encroach on your lead. Also, audit your social channels — you automate to scale, but you’re losing human interaction.It all actually comes down to the right design leadership.For smaller ecommerce sites — start small. Prototype and focus on a minimum viable product. For cycling teams — keep it very simple. Give something potential sponsors can see. Remind people of your mission and link to all the platforms you share content to. Try to get a one-page, simple HTML  CSS site with strong photography and typography.And with media agencies — marketing a cycling brand isn’t like marketing anything else. Cycling is so multi-faceted, so emotive, don’t spam it with marketing jargon or nonsensical messages. Keep it pure, succinct and authentic. Need some inspiration? Check out what John and Justin are doing at Cycling is a growing sport, but it needs to grow in the right way, and with a focus on a great user experience, it can do just that.Senior UX designer, videographer and bicycle rider.

Learn how qualitative methods and early testing can lift your product to the next levelWhen creating new products, be it apps or websites early feedback is the most important thing. A common advice is to “get out of the building” and this is surely one of the best things you can do to improve your product and its user-experience. Nearly nowhere this is done on a regular basis, I recommend a minimum of 5 qualitativ user-interviews per month, no matter which product — there are no excuses.But before I come to some details regarding qualitative user-testing let’s go one step back. What is user-testing all about? Getting feedback for your product! In lean-startup settings it is always recommended to get feedback even for prototypes that are done in a very quick and dirty way. Rightly so, but I want to stress something even more extreme: Get feedback When you have come up with something that everyone in your sketching-group is happy about, it is time to get out of the building. Keep in mind that for one webpage a complete wireframe for external user-testing should be feasible in one day if you meet, scribble and decide in the morning and out of this create a somewhat polished wireframe in the afternoon. Now given one such wireframe, how do you get most out of user-feedback?The first rule is: there are no rules. Go out of the building, show your wireframe around and get feedback. It really does not matter so much HOW you do it, it matters far more THAT you do it. Talk to people in your coffee-shop, on public transport, just on the street, everywhere. Do it! The first interviews will feel very awkward, but you will quickly learn to enjoy them. In my experience you will always find some points to think about that did not came to your mind before. That is the whole point of guerilla user testing. Only very rarely your interview-partners will present you new ideas or directly improve your product. In the usual case they will be stuck at some point or spot an error that you never thought about. Is there anything else to say about how to get good feedback? If you really An introduction to IT product-management

If we look back into the global figures from 2012, ecommerce sales topped 1.2 trillion, which registered a great hike in the number of online trade compared to last couple of years. This further continued in the last couple of years bringing ecommerce to virtually every domain of utility and benefit, touching every dimension of life. Looking at this it can be easily comprehended that how fierce the competition is getting for online traders. Now that’s about market and trends.If we go a little towards technical side, the kind of functions you need to put within So, in all it is getting tough to survive this whole idea of online selling, with something mediocre and ill-tempered. This calls for a platform that is responsive to your need and makes it easy for you to make way towards your ecommerce goal. This takes us to Magento which is the But, what exactly makes it user-friendly and makes it better over other leading options. Let’s have a look from both owner’s and shopper’s point of view:Magento sites have one of the best navigations around. You can switch across tasks and transit most smoothly through the shopping cart with the help of layered course-plotting design. Personalized shopping events would add to your experience and make you feel more of ease while selecting your stuff. The amazing analytic allow you to have all the details about purchases that allow you to have a track of the buying history. Another important part is the functionality for automated suggestions for purchases and similar products based on your searches and orders, which makes it great. All these features come together as a great way to combat unnecessary efforts and time for store visitors. This allows you to easily zero down to the product of your choice and get going with your order quickly and effortlessly. The best part about choosing Magneto as a platform is you get to see your ecommerce site running seamlessly across different devices that we use today. Above all, you get all this with user experience working at its best.The foremost thing to notice here is that Magento is available in three different versions looking at different ownership needs businesses possess. As a small business owner or a new market entrant, you would like to go with the facility available in the form of Magento Go. This is affordable and adequately resourced to fit with your ideas to target a certain volume of market within a basic arrangement of resources. If you have a specific requirement, dealing with different plans to explore the market in your bespoke, The Community Edition (Open Source) is best suited for you. Further, if you have plans to go big, Magento Enterprise Edition will pave your way towards a huge ecommerce site allowing you to modify codes, add features and incorporate extensions effortlessly through Magento Connect Marketplace. Isn’t that great!Further, with the fluid SEO-friendly All these features make it such a user-friendly option to work with for a store owner.Magento Provider - Leading Magento Development Company. Lets connect @ Magento eCommerce Discussion

Be an Let your Mobile First means, quite literally, design for mobile Familiarize yourself with Depending on the UX Designer’s responsibilities, development may not be included in the process. However, it is The Agile workflow is favored over the Waterfall workflow. Design, Tech, Music

This article was originally posted A few weeks ago, I created a simple JavaScript game called The 3 keyboard buttons used in the game are the left and right arrow keys to select the squares, and the Enter key to confirm the selection. Many users told me that the position of the Enter key made it difficult to reach when their hand was resting over the arrow keys. I swapped the Enter key with the down arrow key.Some users complained that the instructions to the game were located too low in the screen, and ended up being cut off because of their browser’s height. To solve this, I pushed the instructions higher up on the screen, and also made it appear at the beginning splash screen.Some users pointed out that the game can be cheated by spamming keys. I fixed this by changing the animation, as well as the key event that the JavaScript listens to to register a correct/incorrect answer.One user in particular told me that the down arrow key is redundant; he’d rather choose the larger square directly by pressing either the left or right arrow key. Removing this unnecessary control would waste less time, and allow players to rake up higher points. I did what he suggested, and tested the improved game with other users.Interestingly, users told me that This might sound obvious, but you need to know what kind of feedback you’re looking to get.If you want general feedback on a simple game/app (like I did), then it’s ok to ask for generic “improvements” to the game/app.If you wanna get validation (to find out whether there is actual demand) for your product idea, you might need to ask people whether your product solves their problem, as well as their If you’re concerned about the usability of your app — things like ease of use, understandability, intuitiveness of flows/actions — then ask about usability. You get the idea.I’m not saying that they necessarily are, but When a user says that she doesn’t understand how a game works, for instance, it’s tempting to roll your eyes and conclude that she’s an idiot (I do that all the time, in my head). But the thing is, she’ll eventually be the one playing the game, not you. At the beginning, always accept what she says as true. If she finds the game difficult to understand, then it must be true. If she can’t find the “Start” button on your timer app, then it must be true.If your user tells you that the flow of your app is confusing, for example, ask them why they think so. What were they expecting? What gave them the expectation?As a general rule, if 8 out of 10 users you’ve approached gave you the same feedback (e.g. that they found the notifications system useful), then it’s probably safe to assume that the feedback’s legit. If the 2 users that gave you a different feedback (e.g. that they found the notifications distracting) are clearly closer to your target audience, or belong to a group that is more important, then you might want to reconsider your notifications system.It’s ultimately a balancing act: you’d have to weigh the frequency of feedback with the importance/relevance of the person(s) giving the feedback.I know this might sound troublesome and totally unnecessary; why do you need to test the app again, after implementing a change requested by users?Because sometimes, users don’t really know what they want. Other times, they don’t know how to externalise what they want. And yet other times, we don’t fully understand what they say they want.If I didn’t get further feedback after implementing the solution to Problem 4 above, my game would have ended up worse off than before!Start by asking your friends. You could also post a prototype of your app on relevant Facebook groups; the What other tips do you have in getting user feedback? Let me know!Aspiring UX designer working in a SaaS startup in Singapore. I do some JS coding too. a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

I’m a big proponent of However many of us, including myself, tend to shy away from actually doing this on a regular basis. Today, when designing features at We use Intercom to track all our users. When they log in, we see them in Intercom. We also see their traits; when they signed up, when they last logged in, if they have done X, how many times they’ve done Y. Beyond user research it’s a great tool to have installed in general.Using Intercom we can Intercom messaging starts at $49/mth.Scheduling is hard. There can be a lot of Say I want to dedicate a whole day to customer interviews. I can create a bunch of 30 minute slots. Then in my Intercom message link to the PowWow page with all the slots available. The As an added bonus, PowWow will send the user a confirmation email as well as a reminder email so they’re less likely to forget. It also integrates nicely with my Google Calendar.PowWow is currently free.The final piece of the puzzle. Running the session. In the past I’ve used various tools. Skype is usually pretty good, but it feels weird adding customers as contacts for a one off conversation. Google Hangouts is a great tool, but again I’ve had issues creating one off conversations with people who aren’t part of my “circle”.I’ve found Free GotoMeeting very reliable. And a bargain (free) for what you get. I can create my own room, have Using these three tools I can interview existing users on If you want you can set up a screen recorder and record the sessions (just make sure to ask for permission). I typically forgo screen recording to cut down on time and formalities, but will pull in team members to observe one or two sessions to help them empathize with users.Afterwards I’ll write up my notes and key learnings in Evernote and share across the team.Product Designer in San Francisco. 

When Images Courtesy of Inside Intercom, How did this happen? For starters, app users felt like they needed more control and more opportunities to choose what they wanted to do when interacting with a mobile app. This is psychologically understandable and consistent with modern theories of gamification and customer engagement. Users started to advocate for more, including notifications, related content, social interaction, and actions newsfeeds. In fact, independent apps without integration and that need to be opened each time in order to be used just don’t make sense. The idea of In the meantime, a mobile app shouldn’t display just as a block of interchanging cards filled with content. Instead, it should be flexible and fit any app design, dividing your content into atomic units so you can guarantee it works with any device or platform — just like Facebook, which isn’t just a website with content anymore. It’s a multifaceted platform that works on desktop, mobile (both browser version and app), and messengers. This means that Facebook is a system, not just a range of interchanging pages or content containers.This change is also apparent in the new features of the iOS 8 Notification Center and Android KitKat — for example, you can conduct some actions without having to leave the notification itself (i.e., without entering the app). The The pictures below demonstrate how you can share and save articles, respond to texts, and attach pictures to messages right from the notification experience.Images Courtesy of Inside Intercom, The same applies to messengers. The integration of photo shooting and video recording is a must for every social messenger, such as Facebook and Viber.Image Courtesy: Publ.com BlogBut this isn’t anywhere near the end of the road: notifications are forecasted to tweet and retweet, post your Facebook updates, show geographical locations, buy goodies on Amazon, pay your bills, book a restaurant, listen to a text message read by Siri as you drive, and dictate your reply. The list goes on and on, as far as the current functionality of mobile apps. App designers should understand that people install apps not to open them but to receive timely and useful notifications, reminders, and promo messages.One way this new concept may look like in 5–10 years is just as a range of cards that can be flipped horizontally and vertically and that contain interactable content.Image Courtesy of Inside Intercom, The next step would be putting content into containers based on your location and the action you take. Stores can do this when you go shopping at one of their locations — and the payment information after you use your credit card comes to you the same way. All these technologies are in place today and only need a bit more time and integration to fully emerge. This centralization will make desktop websites and even separate mobile apps obsolete, putting the convenience of users above everything else. Opening apps will still be possible for deep engagement and deep context, but not for everyday app routines. And, due to higher competition among notifications, app designers will need to work hard on functionality and the look of the pushes they send out to app users.As you see, 

It probably won’t surprise anyone that sound has always been a core part of using a phone. It was also part of the computing experience from early on, although The telephone was one of the first widely available consumer devices that relied on sound for an integral part of its interface. This was extremely elegant because it didn’t need any parts beyond the line and handset — the electricity pushing incoming calls would trigger an audible alert, users would pick up the receiver and engage the line. This was the status quo for decades. Eventually some phones added lights, but they were purely supplementary until the Telecommunications Relay Service was established in 1974 and gave the deaf community a way to use the phone, by having conversations transcribed to captions. As an aside, if you happen to know anything about those early CapTel devices, drop me a line.A sound was often one of the first things a user experienced when using a computer as well. The POST beep of a booting PC, the Mac startup chord, and the Brian Eno-composed Windows 95 chime are each iconic in their way. Interfaces started including audio when the GUI became standard, which was certainly helped when Phones and computers combine in one of the oddest but most memorable interface sounds, the modem handshake. It’s not the most user friendly thing, but then, it wasn’t designed to communicate to us directly. We’re eavesdropping. We got to hear this sonic negotiation because it provided a way to troubleshoot an interaction that Moving closer to the realm we’re in with apps on mobile devices today, we get games, which have always used sound as a major interface component, from mechanical pinball machines and casino games to gaming consoles. Aside from a few exceptions such as rhythm games, the audio is generally supplementary to the visuals, and isn’t necessarily critical to the interface. It can be deeply memorable though. Depending on if and when you started played games, certain sounds could be stuck in your head forever.I’m not going to dig up many So sound can communicate to users, can supplement and reinforce their actions, and can make experiences more memorable (for better or worse). Adding more audio to our apps seems like a reasonable thing to explore. A fantastic example of this is the to-do list app Clear, which recently went so far as to have selectable sound themes in addition to their delicious original set. Their sound palette is delightful and sometimes unexpected, but very coherent and enjoyable. Facebook, Skype, and a few other apps use sound as well, but it seems mostly confined to messaging apps and games.We’ve worked on a few things at Lab Zero that include an audio component. Every app we’ve designed must to be usable with the volume off, in a loud environment, or by users with accessibility concerns, so the sound design we’ve done has been largely supplementary.The first sounds I personally put in an app were in For the In the Aside from emitting sound and using it to communicate, we can use sound as input, as an interface in and of itself. The state of the art here are speech-to-text services (e.g., Siri), which are very good at short form text and some voice commands. These systems are triggered by the user doing things that can also be done via a physical interface (except for Google Glass). But what about environmental sound? Can your phone be smarter about what’s going on around it by listening more?There is a great deal of information in the sonic environment that could be useful. Phones on an airplane could detect a sequence of readiness sounds and automatically shut off cellular functions when it was appropriate. Setting aside whether or not that really Your phone could also attempt to interpret the world, outside of direct signals such as announcements. While designing InStride we discussed a feature where the user’s phone could detect dramatic shifts in the environmental noise level and trigger a dialog. The intention was to try to determine if a user had simply changed environments, or was having a problem such as an emotional meltdown. Meltdowns can sometimes be addressed and avoided by a timely intervention. The dialog was configurable with the user’s favored activity. Combining the sound detection with the accelerometer or GPS might reduce false positives — maybe it’s just a subway arriving after all. We ultimately didn’t build this feature for technical and other reasons, but it brought us closer to the goal of helping users when they needed it the most.Or imagine that you can’t hear at all (or you might not have to imagine). Your phone provides a kind of access to a sense that you don’t usually have. The environment of sonic information can potentially be parsed and translated. Much like the subway example, airplane gate change announcements, critical info for travelers that are sound-only unless you check the monitors (or an airline app), could be heard by your phone. You could tell it you’re taking the train to Philadelphia, and it can tell you when it hears the track announcements.Casting farther forward, can we get to the point where your phone can translate other languages it hears on the fly? Can hear a car coming toward you or other hazards?Information conveyed by audio doesn’t even have to be audible to humans. Data could be sent on ultrasonic frequencies, depending on device capabilities. The One can easily think of mischievous or nefarious uses for this kind of thing, particularly if you can’t actually hear the sounds, but that shouldn’t stop us from experimenting. It brings to mind the early User experience designer with PlanGrid, in New York  San Francisco.

Sometimes I love tumblr because it’s so dang hard to get anything useful done on it. I have only a hazy idea of who follows me, I can’t send links in messages, I have difficulty finding the urls of people I follow, and it’s impossible to CC anyone in a message. And all of this makes for a more pleasant user experience.Let me explain: When I said “useful” above, I meant it with a grain of salt. I love good, efficient design, and I like being able to do useful things. But the problem with efficient design is that it can be efficiently used to do really annoying things, useful only to the person doing them. Facebook and twitter and myspace before them all quickly succumbed to self-promotion and spam; tumblr, mercifully, is largely devoid of this. Sure, there’s the occasional bot, and sometimes someone will start a chain-post asking for reblogs in return for the chance to win, say, a camera or something, but there’s relatively little follow-for-follow or invitations to subscribe to this or the other page. And why not? In tumblr’s case, aggressive following is minimized by the fact that keeping track of who you’re following is so difficult. Go to your “following” page and tumblr will display twenty-five usernames, with those blogs you’ve followed most recently appearing first, and those you first followed coming last in the list. If you follow more than twenty-five, you have to click “next page” for another list, of the same length and arrangement. Check your page listing who follows you, and it’s the same set-up.Which makes it rather trying to find anything. There’s no way to search either list (unlike facebook, where friend lists—your own and other people’s—can be mined easily), and they’re not even arranged alphabetically. Tumblr doesn’t release a lot of metrics, so it’s impossible to say how many tumblogs the average user follows or is followed by, but it’s safe to guess that it’s more than twenty-five. Since there’s no option to change the number of blogs listed (unlike the search pages of, you know, pretty much ever major site on the internet), most users are stuck with paging through the reverse-chronological list. And it’s not even a well-formatted list—twenty-five lines is more than easy to fit on most screens, but the entries are so large (complete with user icons) that the list occupies three whole screen-lengths—there’s absolutely no way to quickly scan the list.And that’s just seeing where you stand. Actually communicating is even harder. First of all, there’re two ways to message someone—via the /ask link, or via “fanmail.” Neither of these works well—a lot of themes don’t even display an “ask” link, meaning only the tumblr-savvy can send messages by manually typing in the appropriate url. And regardless of how you send a message, tumblr won’t let you send a url or an email address—you have to get ingenious with your brackets and your spelled-out “ats.” And even after all this, there’s no way to send a message to more than one person at a time, never mind blitzing your entire follower list.Why do I go into all this UI nitty-gritty? Because I love the end result. There’s no way to market anything. Facebook allows mass-messages, and even encourages it; you can even send invitations to “like” something, totally obviating the need to actually write a message; twitter doesn’t allow mass-DMing, but it does let you make “lists” of who you follow, and puts all your followers and following on a single page, so a quick ctrl-F gets you what you’re looking for. And these are There is always a trade-off between usability and incorruptibility; make a platform powerful, and it becomes a potential conduit for spam; make a platform totally impervious to solicitation, and no one will be able to do anything creative on it.Whether a given platform decides to err on the side of usability or incorruptibility depends on the designer’s end goal for the user; in tumblr’s case, the site’s What does this mean for emergent platforms, like Medium (or First, I suspect that traditional social networks based on sharing thoughts or desires (facebook, google+, Pinterest) will decline (flaneurinpajamas.tumblr.com calebhildenbrandt.wordpress.comThe Editorial Page

Excellent long form articles on a range of web design and development topics.Classic must-read site for web designers.Articles on a range of UX topics and experiences — all on a surprisingly unattractive site ☺Around for a long time (since 2001), and covering UX and design topics.A variety of articles on UX topics (duh? ☺)Articles with a particular focus on intros.Curated feed of UX articles on Medium.This is a great book written in very simple language for either a beginner or advanced web designer, information architect or anyone interested in UX. The authors goal is to help the readers to learn to think like a usability expert. It is a quick read but there are lots of great takeaways you can get from it, ranging from some seemingly obvious tips of things to do and NOT to do, to navigation techniques. Suggested by Julie.This is more of a textbook type read, but it is great especially for information architects and those that think more about the structure of information a page. Edward Tufte offers several examples of good vs. bad examples of visual displays of very detailed information. He has several other books which are also great, such as “Envisioning Information” and “Beautiful Evidence”. Suggested by Julie.Survey of focused examples of effective design solutions.Popular industrial design site.Blog about topics related to architecture.Thoughtful writing and video about interesting things and people.Magazine site with articles about architecture, design, technology and art.All things photography.In depth articles and shorter posts about tech, science and culture.Android and iPhone design patterns regularly updated. Select from a wide variety of different widgets and patterns. Suggested by Mike.A collection of iPhone, iPad, Android, and Apple Watch Patterns that are grouped by widget types and patterns. Searchable too! Suggested by Mike.A collection of mobile UI Elements organized into categories. Suggested by Mike.iPhone, iPad, and Android design patterns categorized into widget types and Pinable to Pinterest. Searchable. Suggested by Mike.There is no allow in follow ... but there IS in fallow

According to its official website, In a short sentence, it’s Google Play, in a slightly different way. You can find download Mobogenie here: In this article, I will walk through Mobogenie product and, evaluate and critic its design.First impression is actually bad. Let’s walk through the product.This is the first interface you will see when you open up Mobogenie. It’s actually a good design. Simple and Clean. Present the most important information — product name and its antivirus endoresment — to users. After this, the product takes you to its main features.The first thing this app ask to do is not exploring the product or the store, but to present you an Ad. An birth control Ad?If you go into App Section to see what apps are out there. Depends on your phone, you might see some holes at the top, they are banners. The other sections are very similar layout as well as Ads out there.The last piece is a sidebar which takes you to a page full of icons. You are suppose to manage you phone from this one page.Look at the avatar, do you think it’s user friendly? what the hell on the bottom, music? And you CANNOT swipe to close it!This is the overall first impression this product presents. It’s very confusing and complex. It’s not user friendly and intuitive.Now I am going to evaluate this product from 6 perspective. I will focus on design and user experience.Every time you approach a product, you should ask this questions. In some cases, you are the primary user and you get it immediately. In some other cases, you’re not. So asking that question would help you focus on the product self not your personal opinion.Who is the app store designed for? You might argue that it is for everyone. But actually it’s not. People who are very tech savvy probably will use Google Play, not Mobogenie. People who tired of finding right content in Google Play might try a different store. People who feel Google Play too complex might like a more intuitive store.My hypothesis on power users of Mobogenie is a person like Paul, who are not tech savvy and use a low-to-mid end smartphone, who are not good at navigating contents in Google Play. ( survey confirmed demographic assumption but we don’t have data on their opinion) Other users, for example, tech savvy people or people who have no idea about app store, are not power users.The most important task for Paul to explore the store and quickly make his content download. Therefore, I want make sure that the first time Paul login to store, he knows what we provide. I would(1) Definitely get rid of Ads at this page — communicate clear information, this is an app store(2)Instead putting confusing words like “You may like”, “Christmas theme.” , I will clearly communicate those are Apps, Games, etc.Obvious a NO in the original design. The simplest solutions is just “Call to Action” — ask Paul to download content. Therefore, I would change the blue download arrow to “Install”, “Free”, or “Get”The color of stars on the app icon is too dim to make any difference. I would test a yellow color. This would make Paul easily to indentify a high star app.If you go into a section, say, games, you would find too much information is out there.We should organize the data and feature in a way that Paul has enough and minimum information to take an action, and the most information is always prominent.App Icon and name are very important. “Install” are second important; Is it paid or free are next; Stars are next, number of people who downlad is important;On the other hand, file size is less important, description is less important. They can be put into app detail page.This one also organized the information poorly. The goal of this page/ sidebard si to help users manage this app itself and as well as his smartphone. When Paul opens this page, he has no idea about whatis this page about.First of all, put a headline at the top of page or use a icon: Setting, or My account. make sure people understand.Then information should move from that headline to summary: The most important tasks for Paul at this page is to “customize Mobogenie” and “manage his phone”. So only two buttons are needed — “Settings” , “Smartphone Management”.Clean and Uninstall definitely go to phone management. Download and update should be combinded as my application, then join picture, music, video into my content, which is under “Smartphone Management”. Or if you really want it discoverable for user, put it as the third button.Topic plaza, my task, level, music are all irrelevant, less important information. They should be folded.Again, I think download button is the biggest problem.Look at how the UI / Icon are unconsistent! Clearly they designed by different teams and those teams didn’t follow the same rule.I think they are OK on this.Revealing the Basis of Products

As humans we create mental models of how things around us function, so every next time we see it, we assume it as static; we take it for granted.A couple friends and I biked across the golden gate bridge yesterday. We ended up riding through Sausalito, Mill valley, around the paradise loop, and down into Tiburon.When I first sighted the Golden gate bridge from a few miles away, I was taken aback from its sheer beauty - just like anyone seeing it for the first time or after a while. The “internationally orange” colored, perfectly symmetric parabola connects the green presidio and the sand hills of Sausalito.It’s hard to ignore that the bridge stands for something greater than itself. Sure, it’s a bridge, and that’s its primary function.But seeing it from afar, from any direction, gives us awe. It transcends simple admiration for a man-built architecture, to something far beyond. It tells us something different.It tells us that the makers of that bridge had a choice. They had a choice between building a mediocre, plain, pillared elevations between two points, and building an exquisite staple that stood the test of time.They had a choice between merely satisfying the stress and tension requirements of the bridge for safety, and exceeding the functional requirements to create an exquisite, unforgettable experience. (At the time, many experts thought a bridge couldn’t even be built across the 6,700 ft strait, in deep waters and with strong tides and currents).It tells us, most of all, that the builders cared. They deeply cared about what they wanted to build. And they cared about the people who were going to cross it.People who were going to cross were pioneers, adventurers, just like the ones who built it.And they deserved to not just cross it, but to be delighted.Absolutely delighted. A feeling of ecstatic, radiant rapture that leaves you inspired.That leaves you awed, and wanting again, again, and again.As humans we create these mental models of things around us. It is mainly to simplify our daily decisions to preserve cognitive capacity, but that tends to disengage us from the awe that is around us, all the time — the key is to see the beauty within.We are stimulated by the same things over and over again — social media, video games, daily routines — that slowly, we render such stimuli invisible. You brain already mapped it, and you are no longer engaged by it as you did the first time.You end up spending every day with these mundane routines where you see, but you see not; you hear, but you hear not. You just coast through the day, never truly seizing the moment and seeing the euphoria.So the same brain that lets you imagine, see, wonder, appreciate, is also plotting against you — it’s making you disengaged.So how do we, as designers, fight this disengagement, and start awing people?Because humans deserve to be changed, shaped, loved, and thrilled.What we do is to take the the As a user, your user experience tells me how much you respect me.Doing something exceptional me tells me you care about me, and that in turn makes me care about you, even if there are parts I’m not a fan of. Alexis Ohanian of Reddit changed the logo everyday in its early years and made a quirky story around each one.It was something the early users looked forward to everyday.People want to be inspired. People are looking to be respected, given importance to, given joy to.So do it all, do it often, do it like you care.Why Design for an ultimate experience, to make it intuitive and beautiful?Why spend so much time, when you could just design the task — knowing the user will perform the task either way, because it solves a pain point?Because attraction breeds loyalty. Intuitive and aesthetic design breeds repetition.It will affect how eager the users are to use them. If the interface sucks, no matter how value-added the end result may be, it will be used less often.Because our brains don’t want to go through the struggle of figuring out a process just to then go through the struggle of actual work.So always lean towards the side of making people focus on what they’re best at, what their craft is, what they’re most productive at, and remove all the friction. Simplest way to express themselves.Donald Norman, one of the thought leaders on design, was trying to justify the value of buying a color monitor back in the early ‘80s when you couldn’t print anything in color. Before the internet, only word processing or spreadsheets were popular. But when he took one home, at the end of the week he had two findings. One was that there was absolutely no advantage to color. But, the second was that he was Why? Because even though the function of information processing didn’t see any effect, the full color monitors changed how people felt about their work.In other words, humans’ choices aren’t always rational — its how they connect to the product, how they The chances of using a product again and again is vastly dependent on how delightful they feel about their creations — if their innate human desires are amplified and conquered a tiny bit every time they step on it.Great design unleashes creative potential — gets people to create. It gets people to drop their inhibitions, drop whatever they are thinking about, stop trying to be guarded, stop focusing on their outward appearance, and let something come in and affect them.Runner, Maker, Tinkerer. Designing to unleash creative potential.

For anyone that has gone through the little They could have sent a link or simple code — but no —they send you this little guy. An animated access token. (It seems as though the Mailbox team takes it all in to consideration. From getting people into their system all the way to celebrating inbox zero. Even pre-populating an email to share betacoins with others. They’ve become the precedent for stirring up that special excitement for a product. Whether it’s revealing what position you have in the waiting line or presenting you with a magical-sparkle-token that grants you access to their beta, they gracefully dangle that item (access) in front of you. They leave you to want more, to check back and see where you stand, to request invites, to start using their product THAT is designing for emotion. THAT is user experience design.I’m a designer that enjoys interaction, strategy, and craft.

In, rapid enhancement of telecommunication industry, it is quite drastic job to deliver right solutions. CSPs aren’t finding the perfect telecom service providers, and so it has become one of major headache. Usually CSPs don’t try to select right services, they always in hurry and just select any one. But few days later they realized it was blunder mistake, and could be the reason for the business failure.Great user experience always comes with reliable and trustable services. Subscribers always look forward to acquire services where the services are satisfactory. Telecom solutions such as diameter routing setup, software integration and deployment are always critical step for the CSPs. It is very important to think about the user experience, how to deliver seamless experience to ultimate consumers. Why people will come at your way, why they should adopt your service? These entire queries should be in your mind.You need to adopt a reliable software solution which can really help you to deliver the right kind of services to your potential customers. If your customers would happy, your businesses automatically grow and then only you will be able to deliver great experience. Software, which you are going to deploying with your potential business, you need to trace each module separately. Integrate top notched solutions with your business functions and enhance profitability as per your expectations.Telecom Software Outsourcing , MVNO / MVNE, Real Time Rating  Charging , Lte Roaming, Telecom Software Development  Integration.Computaris, an R Systems business, specializes in system integration, BSS technical consultancy and software development for software vendors and communication services providers (CSPs) mainly operating in Europe, North America and South East Asia.

I saw the door as a pull since the identified plate had vertical edged reflections and shadows with a shiny center suggesting a highlight on the most raised surface. The pull also was conveyed by the hinges. Now if this is a push door, is it a push door both ways similar to a restaurant’s kitchen door? Then the hinges could make sense, but the window would need to be centered and bigger to accommodate for ease of use and reduce collision error. And like Not as simple as stated. The affordance of the door was still learned and there may have been errors during that process. Opening a door is not intuitive, this act is still a learned behavior by example through observation or by personal experience. The only thing intuitive is what comes natural to all beings within the same climate.

Fashionably Bad User ExperienceI care about user experience. I become impatient when witnessing bad design and poor usability. If I start stumbling while using a Website or an app, I stop using it. I got into a Twitter tussle with a team of Ottawa-based fashion publicists. A colleague of mine posted a link to an article by public relations firm My attempt to read the article felt like jumping through road blocks. Every hurdle made it more difficult for me to read further. The first hurdle was the main feature image of the article. The writer posted it twice in a row. Why did she do this? The first image links to the article’s page. If you click on the linked image, you land on the same page. Redundant links confuse users.The second image lets users add the picture to their Pinterest accounts. Hovering on the two repeated images at the top of an article is not user-friendly on a tablet or a phone. Imagine clicking the Pinterest link by mistake on an iPad. If you don’t have Pinterest installed, a prompt to go to the App Store appears. The copy of the article is not yet visible. Yet, the blogger asks readers to use a third party app to interact with the article. In transactional terms, the blogger asks readers to commit before there is a pay off below. In interaction design, publishers offer something users can check as useful or relevant first.The picture the blogger chose was bad for the article. It was a ring on top of a blurring note. The ring projected a heavy shadow on the paper. The image was too dark. A blurry red background at the top detracts from the ring. The designer preparing the article should have cropped it. The red background adds no relevant information to the image or the article.Every image except for the first one prompts users to add it to their Pinterest account. This is a serious usability problem. I understand that I am not a Pinterest user and that the fashion-curious demographic group who reads this article might be. Still, it is better to assume that users are not Pinterest users. Why inconvenience most users? If they visit the site through their phone, skipping a Pinterest prompts becomes cumbersome. Some of the images are relevant photos of the people mentioned in the article. Others are irrelevant. If the images do not add useful information, they should not be there.The second paragraph of the article was a bullet list. A bullet list this early in the article creates another hurdle. The vague introduction of the article did not yet provide the article’s thesis. There was no synthesis possible for a reader. Yet, the blogger was asking readers to absorb new information in an ordered way. The list is not a summary or an expansion of an idea introduced earlier. The bullet points were generic and filled with meaningless colourful adjectives.The blogger mixed several text formatting options within the article. From a storytelling perspective, readers cannot code and assign values to the different formats. The use of bolds, italics, upper cases fonts, underlines all have meanings in the story the blogger seeks to share. Using every trick overwhelms readers. Are italics in this story the blogger is sharing, a way to classify citations? What’s the difference between bolds and all-caps in this text? Why do some of the caps have links and others don’t? Why are all caps and coloured words the same colour whether they have links or not? Why are the links hidden and not distinguishable from other texts? Some of the text in the article is grey, some is blue, and some is brown. The mix is jarring.One main problem with the article is how the blogger mixed all-caps within regular paragraphs. All-caps are like shouting. Add them in a few in paragraphs at various intervals and you scream at readers. It is as if they are walking through Dundas or Time Square. Why subject your readers to such poor treatment?Information scientist Reijo Savolainen terms how users seek, share and use information as information practice. Bad user experience affects the information practices of my users. The information architecture of a Website affects user interaction. Important questions are how long do I want my users to share and use the information they sought from my Websites? Is a social media share enough or is a copy of the printed version of the article more valuable as a sharing and usage measurement unit? The publishers at Ottawa-based Twenty York Street value clicks, likes, favouring, retweets, pins, and plus-ing.I put my colleague in an unpleasant position by criticizing a tweet she had made linking to the article. I’m sorry Jenna. Madiba. My criticism of the article on Twitter was direct and curt. But it wasn’t personal. The response was weird. The publicists who claimed in the article to be game-changers and provocative were defensive.The president of the company that owns the blog threatened to never hire one of my students… I thought that marketers wanted universities to train students to think critically. Liking their instructors or not is irrelevant. I hope his competitors and clients take notice. He claims to be a genius but will not hire anyone who contradicts him.Twenty York Street uses a responsive design framework. At first glance, it appears to work well and to have a proper layout and a clean design. Yet, I kept stumbling while I tried to read its article. It’s easier to give students a lame Website to criticize. It’s tougher to ask them to assess a site that sports a current look. That’s where the criticism matters the most.Cartoon animator, HCI researcher; UX pro; PhD Student, Faculté de l’information, U de Toronto; 

I wanted to write a short article for my students so they could view it online instead of printing a document. A good friend of mine suggested that I use Medium. I rely on my own Websites for my public writing. My personal Website Medium’s authoring tools and non-specific themes make it a suitable theoretical alternative. Yet, Medium’s user experience sucks. Its poor interface discouraged me from using it more often. I wanted to post an example of a good critical summary for my students. The thought of using Medium felt daunting. Medium claims to make writing and publishing online trouble-free. It claims that writers can focus on writing and nothing else. Medium defies its own sales pitch and transformed into an annoying bottleneck for me.Twitter founding alumnus created Medium. It is a blogging platform allowing writers to write while gaining an audience. By aggregating and notifying your Facebook and Twitter followers, Medium promises a captive audience. Medium is Twitter without character limits. It also borrows from Quora. Just like the latter, it leverages your existing social networks contacts. They can add comments and annotations.Medium’s priorities are not the priorities of a writer like me. While there are benefits in the social media aspects of Medium, these are less relevant for many writers. One of the first problems when using Medium is that it forces users to log in using Facebook or Twitter. Your persona on Medium is dependent on pre-existing ones from third parties. Twitter accounts are often public. Facebook accounts often remain personal. If you log in through Facebook because you lack a Twitter account, you expose your private Facebook account. If you use neither Facebook nor Twitter, you cannot use Medium.Using Medium is like vacationing in a maze. Understanding what Medium does before you sign in the first time is unclear. Users tend to discover new Websites by visiting regular pages with clear titles such as service, product, or about. Medium explains its own narrative through short posts and stories. It forces the user to surf through several unconnected articles without proper referencing. At least on Toon Doctor, users can see a list of all my articles.Navigating through Medium’s interface once logged is as perilous. For example, there are two sets of statistics. One is about your persona as a user and one is about your articles. You must access them through the same popping side menu. However, their contents are context sensitive. Medium lacks clear bookmarks or breadcrumb systems letting users now exactly where they are at all times. You can master this confusing interface but it does not benefit writers. A major flaw of Medium is the hidden log out button. Withholding from users the opportunity to sign out everywhere keep them hostage on a platform. Users should be able to exit anywhere without having to shut down a browser and clear its cache.A trend in 2014 is for Websites to have large image displays integrated within the header or in the middle of an article. While an attractive format, it pressures writers to support Medium’s visual language. Since large images are more desirable and effective, writers cannot use smaller visuals. They have to fetch large images and secure the appropriate rights to use them. This creates a barrier stopping writers from focusing on their texts and more on decorations. While I can use one of my own images for articles related to my work, I could not for the summary I was preparing for my students. I cannot use any image from the article I was reviewing nor the magazine that published it.Medium is better suited to non-writers pretending to write. The lack of a clear exit and in text commenting system support future contextual advertising. Perhaps one day Medium will argue that it has the right to republish any article its users have posted there (if it hasn’t done so in the hard to find terms of service). It does not support the careful reading of a text without social media interference. Canadian political economist and media theorist Harold Innis argued that reading was a private affair. Medium tries its best to make reading a public endeavour. I left Medium frustrated and decided that publishing on Toon Doctor or ComicBookBin is best.Cartoon animator, HCI researcher; UX pro; PhD Student, Faculté de l’information, U de Toronto; 

New unit, new blog post. This project is based around the User experience design. Our brief is either a design or a redesign of a Social Networking website. I think that this project in particular is a really interesting idea because the most popular social networks all have really unique ways of displaying their content and navigation systems. The first thing I have to identify for this project is a user need that I can address in the form of a redesign of a current social network or a design something totally new.So I know I got told that brainstorms are bad. Butttt at the same time I kind of like them and think it might give me some inspiration.So here is my brainstorm, I have 3 main ideas:The scavenger hunt idea is similar in a way to apps like instgram and vine but is grouped into competitions. Each competition has a subject and users can submit a piece of content to this competition. Some competitions would have a specific kind of content that needs to be submitted e.g. image or text whereas others may be open to a wider range of content. Each competition would have a time limit and the winner decided by other users. The winner of each competition could win some form of points or a real world prize from a sponsor etc. The amount of quality user generated content made by this website could be lucrative.There are plenty of Gay dating and social Networks, the most popular being a smart phone app Grindr. Grindr is not cross platform and has a large amount of limitations and a premium version as well as adveertisements. The biggest network before smart phone app popularisation was Gaydar a free gay dating website which operated in a similar way. I feel a cross platform Gay Network with a redesigned and reimagined style for a user interface could be successful with added features, a less greedy profit generation design and a focus around quality profile content.Twitter’s timeline view is functional rather than innovative design, I feel that the way that tweets are displayed could be really interesting challenge. A more horizontal visual design could actually be more informative with features such as hashtag grouping, a dynamically changing interface from user interaction and over time, variations in size of tweet to judged importance of the tweet, more focus around customisation and integrating discovery and normal use. An alternative UI to twitter could also help to improve revenue from promotional tweets by better embedding them into the experience.These are the ideas I have thought of so far, I intend to put some more thought into each to see which I think that I can learn the most out of working on, which would be most fesable and which I’d enjoy working on most.Social networking has recently begun to have more eCommerce integration than ever before, with Facebook Marketplace and social networks such as Pinterest starting to gain popularity. Although popularity has increased in recent years it seems the an eCommerce optimised social network seems to be something that has yet to establish a market leader. I think that using a more of a social network form for eCommerce (Potentially specialising in something like fashion) could change the way that a user interacts with the making a purchase online, in that it would make the end experience something that is designed for the user to enjoy rather than push towards making a purchase.Learning Objectives:23, student, secret geek. Shiny gadgety things, theme parks and all things Japanese make me happy. Sometimes I make websites and junk.

Performance is an often invisible part of our online experience. As Broadly defined, a user experience consists of the perceived feelings and resulting emotional outcome from our interaction with a product, system or really anything that can be touched, felt, or sensed in one way or another. Seems straightforward enough but because of its subjective nature, UX is often misunderstood and elements of its success (or lack thereof) — like performance — overlooked.Performance in the context of UX is also loosely defined, but let’s use a widely accepted definition that states that “performance is the total effectiveness of a computer system, including throughput, individual response time, and availability.” This definition can be applied to hardware, software, and network performance on both client and server sides.As developers and UX designers we don’t have much control over the client side (computer speeds or individual internet connections) but we can ensure the server performance side of things will never be responsible for slowing down an online experience. Delivery of information across the internet will never be instantaneous but we can always make sure we’re one step ahead, prompting responses like “Wow! This site feels fast,” as opposed to “This site sucks, I’m leaving.”An online or digital user experience is implemented in code — code which gets processed by your browser, which in turn works in your Operating System and then is processed by your computer’s hardware. That’s very simplified, but you get the picture: Performance, whether software or hardware, is present at every stage of your time online. No matter how great the designed UX may be, if your performance suffers, your users will feel frustrated. As we say at AREA 17, you can’t separate the design of a website or app from the technology that makes it go vroom.A few months ago we started an overdue updating of the codebase of one of our longest-running projects. Originally built with Rails 3.0 on top of Ruby 1.8.7, the site had been experiencing decreased performance and slower deploys as the codebase grew — a not-so-gentle reminder that it was time to upgrade the whole thing.Our lead developer on the project, Juan Roldán, started in October, with help from technology director, Luis Lavena, and after a good six weeks of work, more than 500 commits, and a full team QA effort, we ran through it. And it launched without a glitch.The performance improvement was huge, the new site is three to four times faster with response times jumping from 2,500ms to 500ms and average load times improved from 7s to 2s. See for yourself:Updated performance is just the beginning. This upgrade will allow our team to introduce future modifications more easily and rapidly as our developers benefit from faster local environments and it will also allow us to tune up specific sections of the code or remove others that have become obsolete. Each time an application gets upgraded, we’re not just aiming to improve its performance and UX but as engineers and developers we also aim to get our application compliant with the highest standards of development techniques and technologies. In turn the wins associated with reaching these goals extend to our clients giving them a solid foundation for growth.So there you have it — an upgrade to an existing site elevates the user experience without so much as talking to our designers. Of course, as a user, you probably won’t notice it, per se. Most likely you’ll visit our sites and think to yourself, “Wow, this is fast. And fun. And I’m gonna tell my friends about it!”.And that’s just fine with us.The inner workings of interactive agency, AREA 17, located in New York City and Paris, France.

Two summers ago, I made the wildest decision to switch my career. My decision was definite, but I just didn’t know how. I put on my thinking cap and pulled out my handy dandy macbook to find the quickest way to make this happen. A couple of searches and cups of coffee later, I found a course called the In the recent past, UXDi was an 8-week course that covered topics to prepare a professional for a junior UX designer role, taught by an instructor with experience and knowledge in UX. Presently, the course itself has changed over the months, based on student feedback and job demands. The immersive course added two more weeks to include time for visual design and basic coding, just enough to build a static website. I want to share my experiences prior to the changes, and how they carry over to my present job.It’s like that middle school feeling again — a new class to attend, new friends to meet, and a new teacher to learn a lot from. GA was more than that. Instead, I jumped right into the fun stuff. On the first week, I learned to create my app, from ideation to a functional paper prototype. I paired up with In the first project, we were divided into teams to work on a particular feature for existing companies — fandango, LinkedIn, Instagram, and Netflix. I worked on a Success! I finished my first project, and celebrated with the rest of the team with GA Happy Hour. Every Friday, GA hosts happy hours after class where students and alumni can get to drink and chat about their projects and other geek stuff. It’s a great way to take a break from the week and work again on the weekend.Following the LinkedIn project, I was given the option to work on a project of my own liking. The obvious choice was food (duh!), so I created Luckily, I was able to make changes to the prototype app right before our first Meet and Greet event. At this event, my class and I had the chance to meet with employers from startups, companies, and GA alumni to showcase our work. I talked to people from Boombox, Duolingo, and Razorfish, and I received constructive feedback on my projects.For another, and final project, I worked with Hooray! I finished the course! It was a fun roller coaster ride with many of ups and downs, definitely a lot of ups! This is our “graduation” photo on our last day as students in the UXDi program. Many of us have moved on to bigger and better things, working as UX designers and researchers at Big Spaceship, OfferPop, 1stdibs, BBDO, and many more. Others went back for more education such as NYU ITP and Fullstack Academy.UXDi was a big break for me, and becoming a designer would have taken many years and buckets of tears without it. Of course, I do not claim that GA is the ultimate solution for getting a design job. Instead, think of it as a career jumpstart, something to get your engines starting. The rest is up to you and a bit of elbow grease — you have to find answers and resources to stay current in the technology and design industries. Most of all, GA has taught me to be more of a doer than a thinker, and just enough to get me started on a new, amazing career.To view additional entries and photos, please check my Product Designer 

There has been a lot of thought put behind the website and it comes acrosss. Few aspects that stand outUser Experience — The user experience on the website matches the expectations of a luxury customer who is particular of high quality service. The photographs are of great quality and thoughtful taken. Several minor features such as the drag option on the date selection in the search results page, the refine  sort conditions, the quality of content all tie up well to the overall offering which is targeted to a niche customerFolios — The segregation of homes into different folios such as Family, Work, Prestige, Getaways  Explorer helps the user make a clear distinction. The collections of homes are curated in a fashion such that the distinction is evident by just browsing through the images under each folioPrice bar — The price bar on the search results page is smooth and changes in units of 20s. Altering it to change in units of 50 or 100 would make it more helpful, considering the price range of the booking amountMaps — There are 2 options to view maps. First, the enlarged map option on the results page where the mouse scroll dosen’t work, which is helpful. Second, the map view on the listing summary page where the mouse scroll does work but the default map view gets altered when you scrolling the page and the mouse moves over the map view. I would do away with the mouse scroll feature in the second instance too and maintain consistency across both the mapsJobs — The homepage is elegant with the all the options on the top bar relating to the user looking for accommodation except for ‘Jobs’ which stands out. I would suggest moving it to the bottom of the page and if it needs emphasis, it can be a statement such as ‘Explore working with us!’£20 Discount — On entering the site, when you are expecting to see luxurious homes, the £20 discount takes away the rich appeal. One way to resolve this can be by offering a thoughtful gift such as ‘Curated book of our homes’ or something similar. I’m not sure if price acts an incentive in this segmentMore Homes  Destinations — Over the next few years one will expect to see more homes in existing OneFineStay destinations and a geographical expansion into more exotic vacation homes. Lot of opportunity there!Increased personalisation — Customers will expect more customisation such that the house fits around their needs. With the internet of things becoming more pervasive, OneFineStay will have look at capturing preferred IoT details from the customer and making sure the house is guest ready.Extended Services — OneFineStay already offers a wide range of services to it’s customers such as iPhone to use, hotel like service and even a digital lock called Product Guy | Entrepreneur | Techie | Oxford. Programmer turned Entrepreneur. Oxford MBA looking atgetting involved with high impact products.

Titles are a currency. They tell the world what you do, how long you’ve done it — and to a certain extent how well you do it.They also come with baggage, especially in the digital world.The new economy folks, product developers and start-ups, don’t want a And the agency creatives hear And neither title makes much sense for how clients need to think about their brands, products and services. There are no walls anymore. Your product If you get this then you know that great products die everyday because they can’t cut through the clutter. On the flipside, nothing will kill a bad product faster than a great ad campaign, so you’ve gotta nail what you’re selling before you sell what you’re selling. And if your customer service is an afterthought, then it’s just a slow painful death, if you’re lucky.So what do we call ourselves then, if we “creators” care about all those things?Some propose What about simply What if… what if we just pull back all the layers of legacy and assumptions and simply ask ourselves: We don’t just make Moments in real-people’s lives. Moments we hope they will feel better off having had. Moments they’ll want to share. Moments that have to be consistent across channels or they won’t be remembered or trusted.We might make people laugh, smile. Feel a sense of belonging. Gasp in awe. Sigh in relief. Discover something new. Feel in control for once. Get motivated. Finally understand something. Or they might not notice something they could have, in a negative way — because we removed a hurdle and designed a better experience.It takes all different types of mediums and channels to design these human experiences. And not just any experiences, but ones that have a unique voice and mission — the stuff that makes a person choose one brand over another.We come from different backgrounds. We have different strengths. Storytelling, Branding, Motion, Interaction Design, Product Development, Service Design, Strategy, Coding, Measurement, whatever… Aren’t we all just trying to make moments we hope real-people will notice, value and share?We are all Experience Designers now.So, what do you say we leave all the 20th century stuff behind us and go make the future together?We make things that change human perceptions and behaviors. And curate + write stuff you probably want to check out. 

User interviews are an exceptionally useful tool for user research, because it allows you to speak directly to users, and get responses to specific questions that you have. If done well, it could also uncover nuances or directions that were previously unknown or unthought of.Like most research, however, user interviews are prone to bias, and interpreting responses can be tricky. But with a good guide in hand — and lots of practice — we can avoid the most common pitfalls and get the most out of user interviews.The first step in conducting user interviews is the creation of interview questions. Badly scripted interview questions can not only nullify the benefits of user research, but also lead product development down the wrong path.Here are 5 comprehensive steps that will help you create a list of good user interview questions.This might sound obvious, but it’s important that you know why you’re conducting user interviews. In other words, you need to know what questions you want answered. These are the Now, think of different perspectives to express the same problem statements. You’d have to imagine each statement as a piece of gem: your job is to turn it in your hand and look at it from different angles.Here’s an example:As you can see, each of these reframes provide a different perspective to the same topic: the original statement is more logic/rationale-driven, while reframe 1 made it more emotion/desire-driven, and the last 2 reframes focus a bit more on the product instead of the consumers.If you did step 2 above properly, you’d already have laid a good foundation to build your questions. In other words, you kinda know what questions you want to ask. The tricky bit, then, is Here are some general guidelines to help you phrase your questions properly:Leading questions are questions that are framed (wittingly or unwittingly) in a way that influences the answers given by respondents.The example above is leading because it focuses the respondent’s mind to a single emotion (anger), and makes it unlikely that he/she will talk about other emotions, like anxiety, or shock.Unlike the first example, this non-leading question opens up the whole range of emotions to the respondent.Note, however, that the question still frames the respondent to only think about the Unless the research that you’re doing is concerned primarily about the emotions of online shoppers, you might be better off asking this:Now, the question isn’t restricted only to emotions, but also includes the respondent’s thoughts. Accordingly, you should probe further about their emotions if they focus too much on their thoughts, and vice versa, to get both aspects of the answer.The more speculative a question is, the less you can rely on it. That’s because you’re effectively asking your respondents to create scenarios in their heads, and then answer questions based on those imagined circumstances.In other words, the rigour — and truthfulness — of their answers become dependent on the rigour and truthfulness of their imagination; you’re increasing your chances of getting bad data.Using the same when-an-online-transaction-fails question, here’s an example of a speculative, versus a context-based, variation:The second question gives respondents a specific context to hold on to when answering your question, which in turn increases your chance of getting genuine, insightful data.Of course, speculative questions have their advantages, but as much as possible, they shouldn’t be used to uncover current or past behaviours.Sometimes, you might want to cast your net a little wider, because the respondent might have something relevant to say that you didn’t think of asking.The first question asks specifically about the product being bought, while the latter asks about the experience in general. If there were any part of the purchase that stood out to the respondent, it would’ve been missed by the first question, but captured by the second.And if the respondent didn’t mention anything about their purchase that you think is important, you can always follow up and ask.Doing so allows you to have more than one data point to verify that you’ve understood the respondent correctly, and to check for contradictions in the respondent’s answers. The reframing exercise in Step 2 should’ve already yielded you multiple questions for the same topic.Here’s an example:Do note that these 2 questions don’t necessarily have to come one after the other; pick a flow of questions that make the most sense to the respondent (more on that in Step 5C).(Extra reading: if you’re interested, you can look up a similar research method called “As tempting as it is, don’t.As I mentioned What you should do, instead, is to ask questions that reveal your respondents’ The point of this step is to have a list of paraphrases, in case the respondent doesn’t understand what you mean the first time you ask them.You can skip this step for super-obvious questions, like what the respondent usually shops for online.A user interview is usually made up of 4 parts: an introduction, some warm up questions, the main body questions, and a wrap up.The point of this section is to give the respondent some idea of what’s going on, so that they don’t feel too confused throughout the interview. But be sure not to tell them too much, because you don’t want to overly frame their minds to think in a specific way.For instance, let’s say you’re working on an app that secures online transactions, and you want to find out how important online transaction security is to online shoppers.If you let your respondents know exactly what you’re working on, you would’ve already preconditioned them to think about online security. This makes it hard for you to determine if online security is really something that they think about when they shop online.In general, it’s better to keep the introduction slightly vague, but let your respondents know that you’ll address their queries at the end of the interview.This is also a good point to let the respondent sign any release form that you have, and ask for permission to record the audio/video of the interview.Here’s an example of an introduction that I often use:At this point, you want to start getting your respondents comfortable talking. Ask them 3–5 generic questions that are related to the topic of your interview.This is the meat of the interview, and pretty much the whole point of conducting one to begin with.You should already have a full list of questions that you want to ask your respondents, and the last thing you’ll have to do now is to order them.As much as possible:At the end of the interview, you should give your respondent a sense of closure.Don’t forget to ask them if they have anything they’d like to add or ask — more than once, I’ve received insightful data from respondents at the end of their interview.Finally, thank them for their time and contribution towards your research.5 steps to create good user interview questions:Found this article helpful? Recommend it! =)Also:Aspiring UX designer working in a SaaS startup in Singapore. I do some JS coding too. a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

We cannot give users a great experience with our apps and interfaces if we do not first consider something so personal to them: What is their primary hand? How do they like to use the phone?Asking users early in their experience if they are right or left handed or have a preference either way is something I believe to be vastly overlooked in the world of mobile interface design. Yes, we have hands that look relatively the same. And yes, we have fingers, five on each hand. However, they are attached to separate limbs of the body, and they have different dominant functions. We write with one hand (usually), and we use a left or right handed glove or golf club, yet we are forced to use universal controls on a mobile phone/tablet built for our hands Maybe this is more noticeable to me because I’m a left handed individual. I’ve been In my opinion we need to go even further than right or left handed interfaces. Certainly, a navigation system or interface could be far more customizeable and personal. What if I could hold and drag my navigation to the absolute most comfortable position for me? Why can’t I choose the particular spot easiest to always reach with one finger while taking a photo on my mobile phone?To my delightful surprise, It’s this technology, not Facebook Home, that I believe to be their real evolution in making the experience more personal for their users. I can’t say that I need a whole phone to use Facebook, but being able to use it exactly how I prefer (not in the old myspace customization sense) looks like a promising future.When I was in school, I always learned and read about the reasons why this user-personalization shouldn’t be an option. “It’s about making the design disappear, making the content shine and communicate,” my teachers would say. Yet somehow I feel that by forcing people to use a system that we deem best with no option to make it even slightly more comfortable for users,we do just the opposite and create designs that get in the way of content. This makes the interface and navigation become more noticeable and frustrating.I understand the intense legwork involved in developing and accounting for this type of designed personalization. However, it would be worth it to remember that our innovation is for the good of the user. Most of us in the creative/tech market really enjoy breaking down how these apps work, but it’s time we let the users have some more control. We’ve been focused on building environments for them to create content, but I think we can let them help create the interface on which they create the content. I’m not calling for a drag and drop, move anything anywhere type of interface, but rather controlled zones that offer a bit more freedom to the way we work/live with these very important devices.We can cache and save user settings about font sizes, articles they like, and boatloads of pinned pictures, so you’d think we would be able to save the way they like to use our apps and interfaces. In the end, apps are for users anyway, aren’t they?This is just the beginning of my thoughts on the subject. I know companies like Samsung have created finger detection software that can sense your finger coming before it even touches the screen. To me, this seems like the perfect starting point to look toward software that might be able to recognize right from left, finger from thumb, and so on. Eventually, the interface could react intuitively to the user, not the user trying to figure out a supposedly intuitive interface design.American Designer  Creative thinker. Product Designer The Editorial Page

User research? Who has time for that when we gotta go Lean, pivot, and be Agile with a unicorn coder/designer stylizing disruptive game-changery? Well, despite such (slightly overblown) constraints and pressures, it’s still quite valuable to have user research somehow folded into the startup business. A recent online discussion with members of the KP Dim Sum crowd began with the following prompt:Being a recently hired design leader myself, I initially requested user research as one of my immediate hires, much to the puzzlement of my superiors…and purse-string holders. That request was greeted with surprise. “What? Not a visual artist or prototyper?” Nope, I needed to deeply understand the wild, alien context of virtual datacenter analytics before I can determine a good design direction.My own philosophy is But how about others in the startup world? What are other design leaders’ approaches to ensuring user research is not neglected and continually supported? Indeed, there has been a noticeable increase in the number of job postings around user research, as this seems to be gaining traction, in addition to hiring digital designers focused on visuals and interactions. Perhaps this is a good thing, this growing recognition of the value of user research.Thankfully, The other great thing about research becoming a team-wide activity, is that it actually fosters Regarding the finer points of conducting user research, there are some factors to consider as cautionary notes:As Dallas-based entrepreneur Continuing further, David says:In terms of approaches to user research, there’s a variety available per situation and data gathered. Erika agrees this is the hardest part:And, just to relay one final story of user research in a startup context, Getting user research done in a startup context is a veritable challenge, with many pressures and demands competing at the forefront. However, research is not only essential, but it is quite Design catalyst / leader / speaker / teacher. Always striving to bring beauty  soul to digital experiences.are read-write, and illegible sometimes …

If I hear about The two dominant rec engine frameworks are user-item algorithms and collaborative filters. User-item algorithms are ten a penny: they typically revolve around a matrix that has users (you know, people) as rows and items — books, articles, films, whatever — as columns. To get a recommendation for a user you perform some linear algebra or some Bayesian modelling or something to get items similar to ones the user has bought, or read, or watched, or whatever. Collaborative filters are the ones that power “people like you also bought” type of recommendations. The algorithm finds a cohort of people “like” your user, sees what they have in common, and recommends that thing the cohort has in common, but your user doesn’t.There are lots of variations on these themes but the details truly don’t matter in any way but one: what matters is Think about how these algorithms affect your users. How do you want to find people “like” me? Other white men in their thirties from Brooklyn? Other people that spend their time vegetating in front of “Veep” and writing code? Or how about people that also wish they could ride their bike to work down a country lane in Yorkshire but actually commute on the subway under Manhattan? If you chose one of these collaborative filters over the other what does that say about how you think about your users? How does that expose your values?This is design. Sacrificing design decisions to the whim of some A/B test means that all you will have left to design are your KPIs. Spending your talent (that should be spent on thinking about desires and aesthetics and behaviors) on populating A/B test buckets will leave you with nothing apart from a strong need to really nail that engagement definition once and for all. You will have left your design to the vagaries of the data scientists who will take their favourite metric (mine’s a Hamming distance) and figure out how to apply that to your problem of return purchases, or time on page, or completion rate, or whatever. And you’ll spend time designing options that win the A/B test battle, only to find that you’re now recommending listicles to the same fake phone-verified Facebook accounts that visited your A/B test in the first place.A/B tests for design are just ways of not making choices. Leave tests to the market researchers; they will not help you.Rec engines should be thought of as tools in a design palette. Choose one algorithm if you want to think about your user’s sequence of actions, choose another if you want to think about the weather in their locale. The algorithms just mean that the experience you design can be (even) more exciting, or interesting, or ugly or beautiful or whatever it is you’re aiming for. Your choice of algorithm isn’t science: it doesn’t absolve you from making other, real choices. There are no fundamental rules of taste or behaviour or desire that you’re trying to uncover, no truths that will still be truths next week or next year. There is only how you treat people.data scientist

